
     ----CITATION----
        Lee, Vernon (1856-1935). Vanitas. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 339 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (10-September-1998 ).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7188
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    VANITAS
                    POLITE STORIES
                
                BY VERNON LEE AUTHOR OF “HAUNTINGS,” ETC.
                
                    LONDON
                    WILLIAM HEINEMANN
                
                1892
                [All rights reserved]
            
            
            
                ALLA BARONESSA E. FRENCH-CINI.
                PISTOIA PER IGNO.
                
                    MY DEAR ELENA,
                
                We had a conversation once, walking on your terrace, with the wind-rippled olives
                    above and the quietly nodding cypress tufts below—about such writings as you
                    chose to compare with carved cherry-stones. We disagreed, for it seemed to me
                    that the world needed cherry-stone necklaces as much as anything else; and that
                    the only pity was that most of its inhabitants could not afford such toys, and
                    the rest despised them because they were made of such very cheap material.
                    Still, lest you should wonder at my sending such things to you, I write to
                    declare that my three little tales, whatever they be, are not carved
                    cherry-stones.
                For round these sketches of frivolous women, there have gathered some of the
                    least frivolous thoughts, heaven knows, that have ever come into my head; or
                    rather, such thoughts have condensed and taken body in these stories. Indeed,
                    how can one look from outside on the great waste of precious things, delicate
                    discernment, quick feeling and sometimes stoical fortitude, involved in
                    frivolous life, without a sense of sadness and indignation? Or what satisfaction
                    could its portrayal afford, save for the chance that such pictures might mirror
                    some astonished and abashed creature; or show to men and women who toil and
                    think that idleness, and callousness, and much that must seem to them sheer
                    wickedness, is less a fault than a misfortune. For surely it is a misfortune not
                    merely to waste the nobler qualities one has, but to have little inkling of the sense of brotherhood and duty which
                    changes one, from a blind dweller in caves, to an inmate of the real world of
                    storms and sunshine and serene night and exhilarating morning. And, if miracles
                    were still wrought nowadays, as in those times when great sinners (as in
                    Calderon's play) were warned by plucking the hood off their own dead face, there
                    would have been no waste of the supernatural in teaching my Madame Krasinska
                    that poor crazy paupers and herself were after all exchangeable quantities.
                Of my three frivolous women, another performed the miracle herself, and abandoned
                    freely the service of the great Goddess Vanitas. While the third ... and there
                    is the utter pity of the thing, that frivolous living means not merely waste,
                    but in many cases martyrdom.
                That fact, though it had come more than once before my eyes, would perhaps never
                    have been clear to my mind, but for our long talks together about what people
                    are and might be. A certain indignation verging on hatred might have made these
                    stories of min utterly false and useless, but for the love of all creatures who
                    may suffer with which you lit up the subject. And for this reason the proof
                    sheets of my little book must go first to that old bishop's villa on the lowest
                    Apennine spur, where the chestnuts are dropping, with a sound of rustling silk,
                    on to the sere leaves below, and the autumn rain storms are rushing by, veiling
                    the plain with inky crape, blotting out that distant white shimmer, which, in
                    the sunlight, was Florence a moment ago.
                
                    VERNON LEE.
                    CHELSEA, October, 1891.
                
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    LADY TAL 7
                    A WORLDLY WOMAN 123
                    THE LEGEND OF MADAME KRASINSKA 225
                
            
        
        
        
            
                LADY TAL.
                
                    THE church of the Salute, with its cupolas and volutes, stared in at
                        the long windows, white, luminous, spectral. A white carpet of moonlight
                        stretched to where they were sitting, with only one lamp lit, for fear of
                        mosquitoes. All the remoter parts of the vast drawing-room were deep in
                        gloom; you were somehow conscious of the paintings and stuccos of the walls
                        and vaulted ceilings without seeing them. From the canal rose plash of oar,
                        gondolier's cry, and distant guitar twang and quaver of song; and from the
                        balconies came a murmur of voices and women's laughter. The heavy scent of
                        some flower, vague, white, southern, mingled with the cigarette smoke in
                        that hot evening air, which seemed, by contrast to the Venetian day, almost
                        cool.
                    As Jervase Marion lolled back (that lolling of his always struck one as out
                        of keeping with his well- adjusted speech,
                        his precise mind, the something conventional about him) on the ottoman in
                        the shadow, he was conscious of a queer feeling, as if, instead of having
                        arrived from London only two hours ago, he had never ceased to be here at
                        Venice, and under Miss Vanderwerf's hospitable stuccoed roof. All those
                        years of work, of success, of experience (or was it not rather of study?) of
                        others, bringing with them a certain heaviness, baldness, and scepticism,
                        had become almost a dream, and this present moment and the similar moment
                        twelve years ago remaining as the only reality. Except his hostess, whose
                        round, unchangeable face, the face of a world-wise, kind but somewhat
                        frivolous baby, was lit up faintly by the regular puffs of her cigarette,
                        all the people in the room were strangers to Marion: yet he knew them so
                        well, he had known them so long.
                    There was the old peeress, her head tied up in a white pocket-handkerchief,
                        and lolling from side to side with narcoticised benevolence, who, as it was
                        getting on towards other people's bedtime, was gradually beginning to wake
                        up from the day's slumber, and to murmur eighteenth-century witticisms and
                        Blessingtonian anecdotes. There was the American Senator, seated with
                        postage-stamp 
                            pro-
                            profile
                         file and the attitude of a bronze
                        statesman, against the moonlight, one hand in his waistcoat, the other
                        incessantly raised to his ear as in a stately “Beg pardon?” There was the
                        depressed Venetian naval officer who always made the little joke about not
                        being ill when offered tea; the Roumanian Princess who cultivated the
                        reputation of saying spiteful things cleverly, and wore all her pearls for
                        fear of their tarnishing; the English cosmopolitan who was one day on the
                        Bosphorus and the next in Bond Street, and was wise about singing and
                        acting; the well turned out, subdued, Parisian-American æsthete talking with
                        an English accent about modern pictures and ladies' dresses; and the
                        awkward, enthusiastic English æsthete, who considered Ruskin a ranter and
                        creaked over the marble floors with dusty, seven-mile boots. There was a
                        solitary spinster fresh from higher efforts of some sort, unconscious that
                        no one in Venice appreciated her classic profile, and that everyone in
                        Venice stared at her mediæval dress and collar of coins from the British
                        Museum. There was the usual bevy of tight-waisted Anglo-Italian girls ready
                        to play the guitar and sing, and the usual supply of shy, young artists from
                        the three-franc pensions, wandering round the room, candle in hand, with
                            the niece of the house, looking with
                        shy intentness at every picture and sketch and bronze statuette and china
                        bowl and lacquer box.
                    The smoke of the cigarettes mingled with the heavy scent of the flowers; the
                        plash of oar and snatch of song rose from the canal; the murmur and laughter
                        entered from the balcony. The old peeress lolled out her Blessingtonian
                        anecdotes; the Senator raised his hand to his ear and said “Beg pardon?” the
                        Roumanian Princess laughed shrilly at her own malignant sayings; the
                        hostess's face was periodically illumined by her cigarette and the hostess's
                        voice periodically burst into a childlike: “Why, you don't mean it!” The
                        young men and women flirted in undertones about Symonds, Whistler, Tolstoy,
                        and the way of rowing gondolas, with an occasional chord struck on the
                        piano, an occasional string twanged on the guitar. The Salute, with its
                        cupolas and volutes, loomed spectral in at the windows; the moonlight spread
                        in a soft, shining carpet to their feet.
                    Jervase Marion knew it all so well, so well, this half-fashionable,
                        half-artistic Anglo-American idleness of Venice, with its poetic setting and
                        its prosaic reality. He would have known it, he felt, intimately, even if he
                        had never seen it before; known it so as to be able to make each of these people say in print
                        what they did really say. There is something in being a psychological
                        novelist, and something in being a cosmopolitan American, something in being
                        an inmate of the world of Henry James and a kind of Henry James, of a lesser
                        magnitude, yourself: one has the pleasure of understanding so much, one
                        loses the pleasure of misunderstanding so much more.
                    A singing boat came under the windows of Palazzo Bragadin, and as much of the
                        company as could, squeezed on to the cushioned gothic balconies, much to the
                        annoyance of such as were flirting outside, and to the satisfaction of such
                        as were flirting within. Marion—who, much to poor Miss Vanderwerf's disgust,
                        had asked to be introduced to no one as yet, but to be allowed to realise
                        that evening, as he daintily put it, that Venice was the same and he a good
                        bit changed—Marion leaned upon the parapet of a comparatively empty balcony
                        and looked down at the canal. The moonbeams were weaving a strange,
                        intricate pattern, like some old Persian tissue, in the dark water; further
                        off the yellow and red lanterns of the singing boat were surrounded by black
                        gondolas, each with its crimson, unsteady prow-light; and beyond, mysterious
                        in the moonlight, rose the tower and cupola
                        of St. George, the rigging of ships, and stretched a shimmering band of
                        lagoon.
                    He had come to give himself a complete holiday here, after the grind of
                        furnishing a three-volume novel for Blackwood (Why did he write so much? he
                        asked himself; he had enough of his own, and to spare, for a dainty but
                        frugal bachelor); and already vague notions of new stories began to arrive
                        in his mind. He determined to make a note of them and dismiss them for the
                        time. He had determined to be idle; and he was a very methodical man,
                        valuing above everything (even above his consciousness of being a man of the
                        world) his steady health, steady, slightly depressed spirits, and steady,
                        monotonous, but not unmanly nor unenjoyable routine of existence.
                    Jervase Marion was thinking of this, and the necessity of giving himself a
                        complete rest, not letting himself be dragged off into new studies of
                        mankind and womankind; and listening, at the same time, half-unconsciously,
                        to the scraps of conversation which came from the other little balconies,
                        where a lot of heads were grouped, dark in the moonlight.
                    “I do hope it will turn out well—at least not too utterly awful,” said the languid voice of a young
                        English manufacturer's heir, reported to live exclusively off bread and
                        butter and sardines, and to have no further desires in the world save those
                        of the amiable people who condescended to shoot on his moors, yacht in his
                        yachts, and generally devour his millions, “it's ever so long since I've
                        been wanting a sideboard. It's rather hard lines for a poor fellow to be
                        unable to find a sideboard ready made, isn't it? And I have my doubts about
                        it even now.”
                    There was a faint sarcastic tinge in the languid voice; the eater of bread
                        and butter occasionally felt vague amusement at his own ineptness.
                    “Nonsense, my dear boy,” answered the cosmopolitan, who knew all about acting
                        and singing; “it's sure to be beautiful. Only you must not let
                        them put on that rococo cornice, quite out of character, my dear boy.”
                    “A real rococo cornice is a precious lot better, I guess, than a beastly
                        imitation Renaissance frieze cut with an oyster knife,” put in a gruff New
                        York voice. “That's my view, leastways.”
                    “I think Mr. Clarence had best have it made in slices, and each of you
                        gentlemen design him a slice—that's what's called original nowadays—c'est notre facon
                            d'entendre l'art aujourd'hui,” said the Roumanian
                        Princess.
                    A little feeble laugh proceeded from Mr. Clarence. “Oh,” he said, “I
                        shouldn't mind that at all. I'm not afraid of my friends. I'm afraid of
                        myself, of my fickleness and weak-mindedness. At this rate I shall never
                        have a sideboard at all, I fear.”
                    “There's a very good one, with three drawers and knobs, and a ticket
                        ‘garantito vero noce a lire 45,’ in a joiner's shop at San Vio, which I pass
                        every morning. You'd much better have that, Mr. Clarence. And it would be a
                        new departure in art and taste, you know.”
                    The voice was a woman's; a little masculine, and the more so for a certain
                        falsetto pitch. It struck Marion by its resolution, a sort of highbred
                        bullying and a little hardness about it.
                    “Come, don't be cruel to poor Clarence, Tal darling,” cried Miss Vanderwerf,
                        with her kind, infantine laugh.
                    “Why, what have I been saying, my dear thing?” asked the voice, with mock
                        humility; “I only want to help the poor man in his difficulties.”
                    “By the way, Lady Tal, will you allow me to take you to Rietti's one day?”
                        added an æsthetic young American, with a
                        shadowy Boston accent; “he has some things you ought really to see, some
                        quite good tapestries, a capital Gubbio vase. And he has a carved nigger
                        really by Brustolon, which you ought to get for your red room at Rome. He'd
                        look superb. The head's restored and one of the legs, so Rietti'd let him go
                        for very little. He really is an awfully jolly bit of carving—and in that
                        red room of yours—”
                    “Thanks, Julian. I don't think I seem to care much about him. The fact is, I
                        have to see such a lot of ugly white men in my drawing-room, I feel I really
                        couldn't stand an ugly black one into the bargain.”
                    Here Miss Vanderwerf, despite her solemn promise, insisted on introducing
                        Jervase Marion to a lady of high literary tastes, who proceeded forthwith to
                        congratulate him as the author of a novel by Randolph Tomkins, whom he
                        abominated most of all living writers.
                    Presently there was a stir in the company, those of the balcony came trooping
                        into the drawing-room, four or five young men and girls, surrounding a tall
                        woman in a black walking-dress; people dropped in to these open evenings of
                        Mrs. Vanderwerf's from their row on the lagoon or stroll at St. Mark's.
                    
                    Miss Vanderwerf jumped up.
                    “You aren't surely going yet, dearest?” she cried effusively. “My darling
                        child, it isn't half-past ten yet.”
                    “I must go; poor Gerty's in bed with a cold, and I must go and look after
                        her.”
                    “Bother Gerty!” ejaculated one of the well turned out æsthetic young men.
                    The tall young woman gave him what Marion noted as a shutting-up look.
                    “Learn to respect my belongings,” she answered, “I must really go back to my
                        cousin.”
                    Jervase Marion had immediately identified her as the owner of that rather
                        masculine voice with the falsetto tone; and apart from the voice, he would
                        have identified her as the lady who had bullied the poor young man in
                        distress about his sideboard. She was very tall, straight, and strongly
                        built, the sort of woman whom you instinctively think of as dazzlingly fine
                        in a ball frock; but at the same time active and stalwart, suggestive of
                        long rides and drives and walks. She had handsome aquiline features, just a
                        trifle wooden in their statuesque fineness, abundant fair hair, and a
                        complexion, pure pink and white, which told of superb health. Marion knew
                        the type well. It was one which, despite
                        all the years he had lived in England, made him feel American, impressing
                        him as something almost exotic. This great strength, size, cleanness of
                        outline and complexion, this look of carefully selected breed, of carefully
                        fostered health, was to him the perfect flower of the aristocratic
                        civilization of England. There were more beautiful types, certainly, and,
                        intellectually, higher ones (his experience was that such women were shrewd,
                        practical, and quite deficient in soul), but there was no type more
                        well-defined and striking, in his eyes. This woman did not seem an
                        individual at all.
                    “I must go,” insisted the tall lady, despite the prayers of her hostess and
                        the assembled guests. “I really can't leave that poor creature alone a
                        minute longer.”
                    “Order the gondola, Kennedy; call Titta, please,” cried Miss Vanderwerf to
                        one of the many youths whom the kindly old maid ordered about with motherly
                        familiarity.
                    “Mayn't I have the honour of offering mine?” piped the young
                        man.
                    “Thanks, it isn't worth while. I shall walk.” Here came a chorus of
                        protestations, following the tall young
                        woman into the outer drawing-room, through the hall, to the head of the
                        great flight of open-air stairs.
                    Marion had mechanically followed the noisy, squabbling, laughing crew. The
                        departure of this lady suggested to him that he would slip away to his
                        inn.
                    “Do let me have the pleasure of accompanying you,” cried one young man after
                        another.
                    “Do take Clarence or Kennedy or Piccinillo, darling,” implored
                        Mrs. Wanderwerf. “You can't really walk home alone.”
                    “It's not three steps from here,” answered the tall one. “And I'm sure it's
                        much more proper for a matron of ever so many years standing to go home
                        alone than accompanied by a lot of fascinating young creatures.”
                    “But, dear, you really don't know Venice; suppose you were spoken to! Just
                        think.”
                    “Well, beloved friend, I know enough Italian to be able to answer.”
                    The tall lady raised one beautifully pencilled eyebrow, slightly, with a
                        contemptuous little look. “Besides, I'm big enough to defend myself, and
                        see, here's an umbrella with a silver knob, or what passes for such in these degenerate days. Nobody will come
                        near that.”
                    And she took the weapon from a rack in the hall, where the big
                        seventeenth-century lamp flickered on the portraits of doges in crimson and
                        senators in ermine.
                    “As you like, dearest. I know that wilful must have her own way,” sighed Miss
                        Vanderwerf, rising on tiptoe and kissing her on both cheeks.
                    “Mayn't I really accompany you?” repeated the various young men.
                    She shook her head, with the tall, pointed hat on it.
                    “No, you mayn't; good-night, dear friends,” and she brandished her umbrella
                        over her head and descended the stairs, which went sheer down into the
                        moonlit yard. The young men bowed. One, with the air of a devotee in St.
                        Mark's, kissed her hand at the bottom of the flight of steps, while the
                        gondolier unlocked the gate. They could see him standing in the moonlight
                        and hear him say earnestly:
                    “I leave for Paris to-morrow; good-night.”
                    She did not answer him, but making a gesture with her umbrella to those
                        above, she cried: “Good-night.”
                    “Good-night,” answered the chorus above the stairs watching the tall figure pass beneath the gate
                        and into the moonlit square.
                    “Well now,” said Miss Vanderwerf, settling herself on her ottoman again, and
                        fanning herself after her exertions in the drawing-room, “there is no
                        denying that she's a strange creature, dear thing.”
                    “A fine figure-head cut out of oak, with a good, solid, wooden heart,” said
                        the Roumanian Princess.
                    “No, no,” exclaimed the lady of the house. “She's just as good as gold,—poor
                        Lady Tal!”
                
                
                
                    II.
                    “TAL?” asked Marion.
                    “Tal. Her name's Atalanta, Lady Atalanta Walkenshaw—but everyone calls her
                        Tal—Lady Tal. She's the daughter of Lord Ossian, you know.”
                    “And who is or was Walkenshaw?—is, I presume, otherwise she'd have married
                        somebody else by this time.”
                    “Poor Tal!” mused Miss Vanderwerf. “I'm sure she would have no difficulty in
                        finding another husband to make up for that fearful old Walkenshaw creature.
                        But she's in a very sad position for so young a creature, poor girl.”
                    “Ah!” ejaculated Marion, familiar with ladies thus to be commiserated, and
                        remembering his friend's passion for romance, unquenchable by many
                        serio-comic disenchantments, “separated from her husband—that sort of thing!
                        I thought so.”
                    “Now, why did you think that, you horrid creature?” asked his hostess
                        eagerly. “Well, now, there's no saying that
                        you're not real psychological, Jervase. Now do
                        tell what made you think of such a thing.”
                    “I don't know, I'm sure,” answered Marion, suppressing a yawn. He hated
                        people who pried into his novelist consciousness, all the more so that he
                        couldn't in the least explain its contents. “Something about her—or nothing
                        about her—a mere guess, a stupid random shot that happens to have hit
                        right.”
                    “Why, that's just the thing, that you haven't hit quite right. That is, it's
                        right in one way, and wrong in another. Oh, my! how difficult it is just to
                        explain, when one isn't a clever creature like you? Well, Lady Tal isn't
                        separated from her husband, but it's just the same as if she were—”
                    “I see. Mad? Poor thing!” exclaimed Marion with that air of concern which
                        always left you in doubt whether it was utterly conventional, or might not
                        contain a grain of sympathy after all.
                    “No, he's not mad. He's dead—been dead ever so long. She's one and thirty,
                        you know—doesn't look it, does she?—and was married at eighteen. But she
                        can't marry again, for all that, because if she marries all his money goes
                        elsewhere, and she's not a penny to bless herself with.”
                    
                    “Ah—and why didn't she have proper settlements made?” asked Marion.
                    “That's just it. Because old Walkenshaw, who was a beast—just a beast—had a
                        prejudice against settlements, and said he'd do much better for his wife
                        than that—leave her everything, if only they didn't plague him. And then,
                        when the old wretch died, after they'd been married a year or so, it turned
                        out that he had left her everything, but only on condition of her not
                        marrying again. If she did, it would all go to the next of kin. He hated the
                        next of kin, too, they say, and wanted to keep the money away from him as
                        long as possible, horrid old wretch! So there poor Tal is a widow, but
                        unable to marry again.”
                    “Dear me!” ejaculated Marion, looking at the patterns which the moonlight,
                        falling between the gothic balcony balustrade, was making on the shining
                        marble floor; and reflecting upon the neat way in which the late Walkenshaw
                        had repaid his wife for marrying him for his money; for of course she had
                        married him for his money. Marion was not a stoic, or a cynic, or a
                        philosopher of any kind. He fully accepted the fact that the daughters of
                        Scotch lords should marry for money, he even hated all sorts of sentimental
                        twaddle about human dignity. But he rather
                        sympathised with this old Walkenshaw, whoever Walkenshaw might have been,
                        who had just served a mercenary young lady as was right.
                    “I don't see that it's so hard, aunt,” said Miss Vanderwerf's niece, who was
                        deeply in love with Bill Nettle, a penniless etcher. “Lady Tal might marry
                        again if she'd learn to do without all that money.”
                    “If she would be satisfied with only a little less,” interrupted the
                        sharp-featured Parisian-American whom Mrs. Vanderwerf wanted for a
                        nephew-in-law. “Why, there are dozens of men with plenty of money who have
                        been wanting to marry her. There was Sir Titus Farrinder, only last year. He
                        mayn't have had as much as old Walkenshaw, but he had a jolly bit of money,
                        certainly.”
                    “Besides, after all,” put in the millionaire in distraction about the
                        sideboard, “why should Lady Tal want to marry again? She's got a lovely
                        house at Rome.”
                    “Oh, come, come, Clarence!” interrupted Kennedy horrified; “why, it's nothing
                        but Japanese leather paper and Chinese fans.”
                    “I don't know,” said Clarence, crestfallen. “Perhaps it isn't lovely. I
                        thought it rather pretty—don't you really think it
                            rather nice, Miss Vanderwerf?”
                    
                    “Any house would be nice enough with such a splendid creature inside it,” put
                        in Marion. These sort of conversations always interested him; it was the
                        best way of studying human nature.
                    “Besides,” remarked the Roumanian Princess, “Lady Tal may have had enough of
                        the married state. And why indeed should a beautiful creature like that get
                        married? She's got every one at her feet. It's much more amusing like
                        that—”
                    “Well, all the same, I do think it's just terribly sad, to see a
                        creature like that condemned to lead such a life, without anyone to care for
                        or protect her, now poor Gerald Burne's dead.”
                    “Oh, her brother—her brother—do you suppose she cared for him?”
                        asked the niece, pouring out the iced lemonade and Cyprus wine. She always
                        rebelled against her aunt's romanticalness.
                    “Gerald Burne!” said Marion, collecting his thoughts, and suddenly seeing in
                        his mind a certain keen-featured face, a certain wide curl of blond hair,
                        not seen for many a long year. “Gerald Burne! Do you mean an awfully
                        handsome young Scotchman, who did something very distinguished in
                        Afghanistan? You don't mean to say he was any relation of Lady Atalanta's? I
                        never heard of his being dead, either. I
                        thought he must be somewhere in India.”
                    “Gerald Burne was Lady Tal's half-brother—her mother had married a Colonel
                        Burne before her marriage with Lord Ossian. He got a spear-wound or
                        something out in Afghanistan,” explained one of the company.
                    “I thought it was his horse,” interrupted another.
                    “Anyhow,” resumed Miss Vanderwerf, “poor Gerald was crippled for life—a sort
                        of spinal disease, you know. That was just after old Sir Thomas Walkenshaw
                        departed, so Tal and he lived together and went traveling from one place to
                        another, consulting doctors, and that sort of thing, until they settled in
                        Rome. And now poor Gerald is dead—he died two years ago—Tal's all alone in
                        the world, for Lord Ossian's a wretched, tipsy, bankrupt old creature, and
                        the other sisters are married. Gerald was just an angel, and you've no idea
                        how devoted poor Tal was to him—he was just her life, I do believe.”
                    The young man called Ted looked contemptuously at his optimistic hostess.
                    “Well,” he said, “I don't know whether Lady Tal cared much for her brother
                        while he was alive. My belief is she never cared a jackstraw for anyone. 
                            Any-
                            Anyway
                         way, if she did care
                        for him you must admit she didn't show it after his death. I never saw a
                        woman look so utterly indifferent and heartless as when I saw her a month
                        later. She made jokes, I remember, and asked me to take her to a curiosity
                        shop. And she went to balls in London not a year afterwards.”
                    The niece nodded. “Exactly. I always thought it perfectly indecent. Of course
                        Aunt says it's Tal's way of showing her grief, but it's a very funny one,
                        anyhow.”
                    “I'm sure Lady Tal must regret her brother,” said the Roumanian Princess.
                        “Just think how convenient for a young widow to be able to say to all the
                        men she likes: ‘Oh, do come and see poor Gerald.’”
                    “Well, well!” remarked Miss Vanderwerf. “Of course she did take her brother's
                        death in a very unusual way. But still I maintain she's not heartless for
                        all that.”
                    “Hasn't a pretty woman a right to be heartless, after all?” put in
                        Marion.
                    “Oh, I don't care a fig whether Lady Tal is heartless or not,” answered Ted
                        brusquely. “Heartlessness isn't a social offence. What I object to most in
                        Lady Tal is her being so frightfully mean.”
                    “Mean?”
                    
                    “Why, yes; avaricious. With all those thousands, that woman manages to spend
                        barely more than a few hundreds.”
                    “Well, but if she's got simple tastes?” suggested Marion.
                    “She hasn't. No woman was ever further from it. And of course it's so evident
                        what her game is! She just wants to feather her nest against a rainy day.
                        She's putting by five-sixths of old Walkenshaw's money, so as to make
                        herself a nice little dot, to marry
                        someone else upon one of these days.”
                    “A judicious young lady!” observed Marion.
                    “Well, really, Mr. Kennedy,” exclaimed the Roumanian Princess, “you are
                        ingenious and ingenuous! Do you suppose that our dear Tal is putting by
                        money in order to marry some starving genius, to do love in a cottage with?
                        Why, if she's not married yet, it's merely because she's not met a
                        sufficient parti. She wants something very
                        grand—a Pezzo Grosso, as they say
                        here.”
                    “She couldn't marry as long as she had Gerald to look after,” said Miss
                        Vanderwerf, fanning herself in the moonlight. “She was too fond of
                        Gerald.”
                    “She was afraid of Gerald, that's my belief, too,” corrected the niece.
                        “Those big creatures are always cowards.
                        And Gerald hated the notion of her making another money marriage, though he
                        seems to have arranged pretty well to live on old Walkenshaw's
                        thousands.”
                    “Of course Gerald wanted to keep her all for himself; that was quite
                        natural,” said Miss Vanderwerf; “but I think that as long as he was alive
                        she did not want anyone else. She thought only of him, poor creature—”
                    “And of a score of ball and dinner-parties and a few hundred acquaintances,”
                        put in Ted, making rings with the smoke of his cigarette.
                    “And now,” said the Princess, “she's waiting to find her Pezzo Grosso. And she wants money because she
                        knows that a Pezzo Grosso will marry a
                        penniless girl of eighteen, but won't marry a penniless woman of thirty; she
                        must make up for being a little passée by
                        loving him for his own sake, and for that, she must have money.”
                    “For all that, poor Tal's very simple,” wheezed the old peeress, apparently
                        awakening from a narcotic slumber. “She always reminds me of an anecdote
                        poor dear Palmerston used to tell—”
                    “Anyhow,” said Kennedy, “Lady Tal's a riddle, and I pity the man who tries to
                        guess it. Good- night, dear Miss
                        Vanderwerf—good-night, Miss Bessy. It's all settled about dining at the
                        Lido, I hope. And you'll come, too, I hope, Mr. Marion.”
                    “I'll come with pleasure, particularly if you ask the enigmatic Lady
                        Tal.”
                    “Much good it is to live in Venice,” thought Jervase Marion, looking out of
                        his window on to the canal, “if one spends two hours discussing a young
                        woman six foot high looking out for a duke.”
                
                
                
                    III.
                    JERVASE MARION had registered three separate, well-defined, and
                        solemn vows, which I recapitulate in the inverse order to their importance.
                        The first was: Not to be enticed into paying calls during that month at
                        Venice; the second, Not to drift into studying any individual character
                        while on a holiday; and the third, a vow dating from more years back than he
                        cared to think of, and resulting from infinite bitterness of spirit, Never
                        to be entrapped, beguiled, or bullied into looking at the manuscript of an
                        amateur novelist. And now he had not been in Venice ten days before he had
                        broken each of these vows in succession; and broken them on behalf, too, of
                        one and the same individual.
                    The individual in question was Lady Atalanta Walkenshaw, or, as he had
                        already got accustomed to call her, Lady Tal. He had called upon Lady Tal;
                        he had begun studying Lady Tal; and now he
                        was actually untying the string which fastened Lady Tal's first attempt at a
                        novel.
                    Why on earth had he done any of these things, much less at all? Jervase
                        Marion asked himself, leaving the folded parcel unopened on the large round
                        table, covered with a black and red table-cloth, on which were neatly spread
                        out his writing-case, blotter, inkstand, paper-cutter, sundry packets of
                        envelopes, and boxes of cigarettes, two uncut Athenæums, three
                        dog-eared French novels (Marion secretly despised all English ones, and was
                        for ever coveting that exquisite artistic sense, that admirable insincerity
                        of the younger Frenchmen), a Baedeker, a Bradshaw, the photograph, done just
                        before her death, of his mother in her picturesque, Puritan-looking widow's
                        cap, and a little portfolio for unanswered letters, with flowers painted on
                        it by his old friend, Biddy Lothrop.
                    Marion gave the parcel, addressed in a large, quill-pen hand, a look of utter
                        despair, and thrusting his hands ungracefully but desperately into the
                        armhole of his alpaca writing-jacket, paced slowly up and down his darkened
                        room on a side canal. He had chosen that room, rather than one on the Riva,
                        thinking it would be less noisy. But it seemed to him now, in one of his
                        nervous fits, as if all the  noises of the
                        world had concentrated on to that side canal to distract his brain, weaken
                        his will, and generally render him incapable of coping with his own
                        detestable weakness and Lady Tal's terrible determination. There was a plash
                        of oar, a grind of keel, in that side canal, a cry of Stali or Premè from the gondoliers, only the more worrying for its
                        comparative rareness. There was an exasperating blackbird who sang
                        Garibaldi's hymn, in separate fragments, a few doors off, and an even more
                        exasperating kitchen-maid, who sang the first bars of the umbrella trio of
                            Boccaccio, without getting any further, while scouring her
                        brasses at the window opposite, and rinsing out her saucepans, with a
                        furtive splash into the canal. There was the bugle of the barracks, the bell
                        of the parish church, the dog yelping on the boats of the Riva; everything
                        in short which could madden a poor nervous novelist who has the crowning
                        misfortune of looking delightfully placid.
                    Why on earth, or rather how on earth, had he let himself in for all this?
                        ‘All this’ being the horrible business of Lady Atalanta, the visits to pay
                        her, the manuscript to read, the judgement to pass, the advice to give, the
                        lies to tell, all vaguely complicated with the song of that blackbird, the
                        jar of that gondola keel, the jangle of
                        those church bells. How on earth could he have been such a miserable worm?
                        Marion asked himself, pacing up and down his large, bare room, mopping his
                        head, and casting despairing glances at the mosquito curtains, the bulging
                        yellow chest of drawers painted over with the nosegays, the iron
                        clothes-horse, the towel-stand, the large printed card setting forth in
                        various tongues the necessity of travellers consigning all jewels and
                        valuables to the secretary of the hotel at the Bureau.
                    He could not, at present, understand in the very least why he had given that
                        young woman any encouragement; for he must evidently have given her some
                        encouragement before she could have gone to the length of asking so great a
                        favour of a comparative stranger. And the odd part of it was, that when he
                        looked into the past, that past of a few days only, it seemed as if, so far
                        from his having encouraged Lady Tal, it had been Lady Tal who had encouraged
                        him. He saw her, the more he looked, in the attitude of a woman granting a
                        favour, not asking one. He couldn't even explain to himself how the matter
                        of the novel had ever come up. He certainly couldn't remember having said:
                        “I wish you would let me see your novel, Lady Tal,” or “I should be curious
                        to have a look at that novel of yours;”
                        such a thing would have been too absurd on the part of a man who had always
                        fled from manuscripts as from the plague. At the same time he seemed to have
                        no recollection either of her having said the other thing, the more or less
                        humble request for a reading. He recollected her saying: “Mind you tell me
                        the exact truth—and don't be afraid of telling me if it's all disgusting
                        rubbish.” Indeed he could see something vaguely amused, mischievous, and a
                        little contemptuous in the handsome, regular Scotch face; but that had been
                        afterwards, after he had already settled the matter with her.
                    It was the sense of having been got the better of, and in a wholly
                        unintelligible way, which greatly aggravated the matter. For Marion did not
                        feel the very faintest desire to do Lady Atalanta a service. He would not
                        have minded so much if she had wheedled him into it,—no man thinks the worse
                        of himself for having been wheedled by a handsome young woman of fashion,—or
                        if she had been an appealling or pathetic creature, one of those who seem to
                        suggest that this is just all that can be done for them, and that perhaps
                        one may regret not having done it over their early grave.
                    Lady Tal was not at all an appealing woman; she looked three times as strong, both in body and in
                        mind, with her huge, strongly knit-frame, and clear, pink complexion, and
                        eyes which evaded you, as himself and most of his acquaintances. And as to
                        wheedling, how could she wheedle, this woman with her rather angular
                        movements, brusque, sarcastic, bantering speech, and look of counting all
                        the world as dust for an Ossian to trample underfoot? Moreover, Marion was
                        distinctly aware of the fact that he rather disliked Lady Tal. It was not
                        anything people said about her (although they seemed to say plenty), nor
                        anything she said herself; it was a vague repulsion due to her dreadful
                        strength, her appearance of never having felt anything, the hardness of
                        those blue, bold eyes, the resolution of that well-cut, firmly closing
                        mouth, the bantering tone of that voice, and the consequent impression which
                        she left on him of being able to take care of herself to an extent almost
                        dangerous to her fellow creatures. Marion was not a sentimental novelist;
                        his books turned mainly upon the little intrigues and struggles of the
                        highly civilized portion of society, in which only the fittest have
                        survived, by virtue of talon and beak. Yet he owned to himself, in the
                        presence of Lady Atalanta Walkenshaw, or rather behind her back, that he did
                            like human beings, and especially
                        women, to have a soul; implying thereby that the lady in question affected
                        him as being hampered by no such impediment to digestion, sleep, and worldly
                        distinction.
                    It was this want of soul which constituted the strength of Lady Tal. This
                        negative quality had much more than the value of a positive one. And it was
                        Lady Tal's want of soul which had, somehow, got the better of him, pushed
                        him, bullied him, without any external manifestation, and by a mere hidden
                        force, into accepting, or offering to read that manuscript.
                    Jervase Marion was a methodical man, full of unformulated principles of
                        existence. One of these consisted in always doing unpleasant duties at once,
                        unless they were so unpleasant that he never did them at all. Accordingly,
                        after a turn or two more up and down the room, and a minute or two lolling
                        out of the window, and looking into that kitchen on the other side of the
                        canal, with the bright saucepans in the background, and the pipkins with
                        carnations and sweet basil on the sill, Marion cut the strings of the
                        manuscript, rolled it backwards to make it lie flat, and with a melancholy
                        little moan, began reading Lady Tal's novel.
                    “Violet—” it began.
                    
                    “Violet! and her name's Violet too!” ejaculated Marion to himself.
                    “Violet is seated in a low chair in the gloom in the big bow window at
                        Kieldar—the big bow window encircled by ivy and constructed it is said by
                        Earl Rufus before he went to the crusades and from which you command a
                        magnificent prospect of the broad champaign country extending for many
                        miles, all dotted with oaks and farmhouses and bounded on the horizon by the
                        blue line of the hills of B——shire—the window in which she had sat so often
                        and cried as a child when her father Lord Rufus had married again and
                        brought home that handsome Jewish wife with the fardée face and the exquisite dresses from Worth—Violet had
                        taken refuge in that window in order to think over the events of the
                        previous evening and that offer of marriage which her cousin Marmaduke had
                        just made to her—”
                    “Bless the woman!” exclaimed Marion, “what on earth is it all about?” And he
                        registered the remark, to be used upon the earliest occasion in one of his
                        own novels, that highly-connected and well-dressed young women of the
                        present generation, appear to leave commas and semicolons, all in fact
                        except full stops and dashes, to their social inferiors.
                    
                    The remark consoled him, also, by its practical bearing on the present
                        situation, for it would enable him to throw the weight of his criticisms on
                        this part of Lady Tal's performance.
                    “You must try, my dear Lady Atalanta,” he would say very gravely, “to
                        cultivate a—a—somewhat more lucid style—to cut down your sentences a
                        little—in fact to do what we pedantic folk call break up the members of a
                        period. In order to do so, you must turn your attention very seriously to
                        the subject of punctuation, which you seem to have—a—well—rather neglected
                        hitherto. I will send for an invaluable little work on the subject—‘Stops:
                        and how to manage them,’ which will give you all necessary information.
                        Also, if you can find it in the library of any of our friends here, I should
                        recommend your studying a book which I used in my boyhood, —a great many
                        years ago, alas!—called ‘Blair's Rhetoric.’”
                    If that didn't quench Lady Tal's literary ardour, nothing ever would. But all
                        the same he felt bound to read on a little, in order to be able to say he
                        had done so. 
                
                
                
                    IV.
                    JERVASE MARION fixed his eyes, the eyes of the spirit particularly,
                        upon Lady Tal, as he sat opposite her, the next day, at the round dinner
                        table, in Palazzo Bragadin.
                    He was trying to make out how on earth this woman had come to write the novel
                        he had been reading. That Lady Tal should possess considerable knowledge of
                        the world, and of men and women, did not surprise him in the least. He had
                        recognised, in the course of various conversations, that this young lady
                        formed an exception to the rule that splendid big creatures with regular
                        features and superb complexions are invariably idiots.
                    That Lady Tal should even have a certain talent—about as cultivated as that
                        of the little boys who draw horses on their copy books—for plot and
                        dialogue, was not astonishing at all, any more than that her sentences
                        invariably consisted either of three words,
                        or of twenty-seven lines, and that her grammar and spelling were nowhere.
                        All this was quite consonant with Lady Tal's history, manner, talk, and with
                        that particular beauty of hers—the handsome aquiline features, too clean-cut
                        for anything save wood or stone, the bright, cold, blue eyes, which looked
                        you in the face when you expected it least, and which looked away from you
                        when you expected it least, also; the absence of any of those little subtle
                        lines which tell of feeling and thought, and which complete visible beauty,
                        while suggesting a beauty transcending mere visible things. There was
                        nothing at all surprising in this. But Jervase Marion had found in this
                        manuscript something quite distinct and unconnected with such matters: he
                        had found the indications of a soul, a very decided and unmistakable
                        soul.
                    And now, looking across the fruit and flowers, and the set out of old
                        Venetian glass on Miss Vanderwerf's hospitable table, he asked himself in
                        what portion of the magnificent person of Lady Atalanta Walkenshaw that soul
                        could possibly be located.
                    Lady Tal was seated, as I have remarked, immediately opposite Marion, and
                        between a rather battered cosmopolitan diplomatist and the young
                            millionaire who had been in distress
                        about a sideboard. Further along was the Roumanian Princess, and opposite,
                        on the other side of Marion, an elderly American siren, in an extremely
                        simple white muslin frock, at the first glance the work of the nursery maid,
                        at the second of Worth, and symbolising the strange, dangerous fascination
                        of a lady whom you took at first for a Puritan and a frump. On the other sat
                        Miss Gertrude Ossian, Lady Tal's cousin, a huge young woman with splendid
                        arms and shoulders and atrocious manners, who thought Venice such a bore
                        because it was too hot to play at tennis and you couldn't ride on canals,
                        and consoled herself by attempting to learn the guitar from various effete
                        Italian youths, whom she alarmed and delighted in turn.
                    Among this interesting company Lady Tal was seated with that indefinable look
                        of being a great deal too large, too strong, too highly connected, and too
                        satisfied with herself and all things, for this miserable, effete, plebeian,
                        and self-conscious universe.
                    She wore a beautifully-made dress of beautifully-shining silk, and her
                        shoulders and throat and arms were as beautifully made and as shining as her
                        dress; and her blond hair was as elaborately and perfectly arranged as it
                        was possible to conceive. That blond hair,
                        verging upon golden, piled up in smooth and regular plaits and rolls till it
                        formed a kind of hard and fantastic helmet about her very oval face, and
                        arranged in a close row of symmetrical little curls upon the high, white,
                        unmarked forehead, and about the thin, black, perfectly-arched eyebrows—that
                        hair of Lady Tal's symbolised, in the thought of Marion, all that was
                        magnificent, conventional, and impassive in this creature. Those blue eyes
                        also, which looked at you and away from you, when you expected each least,
                        were too large, under the immense arch of eyebrow, to do more than look out
                        indifferently upon the world. The mouth was too small in its beautiful shape
                        for any contraction or expression of feeling, and when she smiled, those
                        tiny white teeth seemed still to shut it. And altogether, with its
                        finely-moulded nostrils, which were never dilated, and its very oval
                        outline, the whole face affected Marion as a huge and handsome mask, as
                        something clapped on and intended to conceal. To conceal what? It seemed to
                        the novelist, as he listened to the stream of animated conventionalities, of
                        jokes unconnected with any high spirits, that the mask of Lady Atalanta's
                        face, like those great stone masks in Roman galleries and gardens, concealed
                        the mere absence of 
                            every-
                            everything
                         thing. As Marion contemplated
                        Lady Tal, he reviewed mentally that manuscript novel written in a hand as
                        worn down as that of a journalist, and with rather less grammar and spelling
                        than might be expected from a nursery maid; and he tried to connect the
                        impression it had left on his mind with the impression which its author was
                        making at the present moment.
                    The novel had taken him by surprise by its subject, and even more by its
                        particular moral attitude. The story was no story at all, merely the
                        unnoticed martyrdom of a delicate and scrupulous woman tied to a vain, mean,
                        and frivolous man; the long starvation of a little soul which required
                        affections and duties among the unrealities of the world. Not at all an
                        uncommon subject nowadays; in fact, Marion could have counted you off a
                        score of well-known novels on similar or nearly similar themes.
                    There was nothing at all surprising in the novel, the surprising point lay in
                        its having this particular author.
                    Little by little, as the impression of the book became fainter, and the
                        impression of the writer more vivid, Marion began to settle his
                        psychological problem. Or rather he began to settle that there was no psychological problem at all. This particular
                        theme was in vogue nowadays, this particular moral view was rife in the
                        world; Lady Tal had read other people's books, and had herself written a
                        book which was extremely like theirs. It was a case of unconscious, complete
                        imitation. The explanation of Lady Tal's having produced a novel so very
                        different from herself, was simply that, as a matter of fact, she had not
                        produced that novel at all. It was unlike herself because it belonged to
                        other people, that was all.
                    “Tell me about my novel,” she said after dinner, beckoning Marion into one of
                        the little gothic balconies overhanging the grand canal; the little
                        balconies upon whose cushions and beneath whose drawn-up awning there is
                        room for two, just out of earshot of any two others on the other balconies
                        beyond.
                    Places for flirtation. But Lady Tal, Marion had instinctively understood, was
                        not a woman who flirted. Her power over men, if she had any, or chose to
                        exert it, must be of the sledge-hammer sort. And how she could possibly have
                        any power over anything save a mere gaping masher, over anything that had,
                        below its starched shirt front, sensitiveness, curiosity, and imagination, Marion at this moment utterly
                        failed to understand.
                    The tone of this woman's voice, the very rustle of her dress, as she leaned
                        upon the balcony and shook the sparks from her cigarette into the dark sky
                        and the dark water, seemed to mean business and nothing but business.
                    She said:
                    “Tell me all about my novel. I don't intend to be put off with mere remarks
                        about grammar and stops. One may learn all about that; or can't all that,
                        and style, and so forth, be put in for one, by the printer's devil? I
                        haven't a very clear notion what a printer's devil is, except that he's a
                        person with a thumb. But he might see to such details, or somebody else of
                        the same sort.”
                    “Quite so. A novelist of some slight established reputation would do as well,
                        Lady Tal.”
                    Marion wondered why he had made that answer; Lady Tal's remark was
                        impertinent only inasmuch as he chose to admit that she could be impertinent
                        to him.
                    Lady Tal, he felt, but could not see, slightly raised one of those immensely
                        curved eyebrows of hers in the darkness.
                    
                    “I thought that you, for instance, might get me through all that,” she
                        answered; “or some other novelist, as you say, of established reputation,
                        who was benevolently inclined towards a poor, helpless
                        ignoramus with literary aspirations.”
                    “Quite apart from such matters—and you are perfectly correct in supposing
                        that there must be lots of professed novelists who would most gladly assist
                        you with them—quite apart from such matters, your novel, if you will allow
                        me to say a rude thing, is utterly impossible. You are perpetually taking
                        all sorts of knowledge for granted in your reader. Your characters don't
                        sufficiently explain themselves; you write as if your reader had witnessed
                        the whole thing and merely required reminding. I almost doubt whether you
                        have fully realized for yourself a great part of the situation; one would
                        think you were repeating things from hearsay, without quite understanding
                        them.”
                    Marion felt a twinge of conscience: that wasn't the impression left by the
                        novel, but the impression due to the discrepancy between the novel and its
                        author. That hateful habit of studying people, of turning them round,
                        prodding and cutting them to see what was inside, why couldn't he leave it
                        behind for awhile? Had he not come to
                        Venice with the avowed intention of suspending all such studies?
                    Lady Tal laughed. The laugh was a little harsh. “You say that because of the
                        modelling of my face—I know all about modelling of faces, and facial angles,
                        and cheek-bones, and eye cavities: I once learned to draw—people always
                        judge of me by the modelling of my face. Perhaps they are right, perhaps
                        they are wrong. I daresay I have taken too much for granted.
                        One ought never to take anything for granted, in the way of human insight,
                        ought one? Anyhow, perhaps you will show me when I have gone wrong, will
                        you?”
                    “It will require a good deal of patience—” began Marion.
                    “On your part, of course. But then it all turns to profit with you novelists;
                        and it's men's business to be patient, just because they never are.”
                    “I meant on your part, Lady Tal. I question whether you have any notion of
                        what it means to recast a novel—to alter it throughout, perhaps not only
                        once, but twice, or three times.”
                    “Make me a note of the main wrongness, and send me the MS., will you? I'll
                        set about altering it at once, you'll see. I'm a great deal more patient
                            than you imagine, Mr. Marion, when I
                        want a thing—and I do want this—I want to write novels. I want the
                        occupation, the interest, the excitement. Perhaps some day I shall want the
                        money too. One makes pots of money in your business, doesn't one?”
                    Lady Atalanta laughed. She threw her cigarette into the canal, and with a
                        crackle and a rustle of her light dress, straightened her huge person, and
                        after looking for a moment into the blue darkness full of dim houses and
                        irregularly scattered lights, she swept back into the hum of voices and
                        shimmer of white dresses of Miss Vanderwerf's big drawing-room.
                    Jervase Marion remained leaning on the balcony, listening to the plash of oar
                        and the bursts of hoarse voices and shrill fiddles from the distant music
                        boats.
                
                
                
                    V.
                    THE temptations of that demon of psychological study proved too
                        great for Marion; particularly when that tempter allied himself to an
                        equally stubborn though less insidious demon apparently residing in Lady
                        Atalanta: the demon of amateur authorship. So that, by the end of ten days,
                        there was established, between Lady Tal's lodgings and Marion's hotel, a
                        lively interchange of communication, porters and gondoliers for ever running
                        to and fro between “that usual tall young lady at San Vio,” and “that usual
                        short, bald gentleman on the Riva.” The number of parcels must have been
                        particularly mysterious to these messengers, unless the proverbially rapid
                        intuition (inherited during centuries of intrigue and spying) of Venetian
                        underlings arrived at the fact that the seemingly numberless packets were in
                        reality always one and the same, or portions of one and the same: the
                        celebrated novel travelling to and fro, with perpetual criticisms from
                        Marion and corrections from Lady Atalanta.
                        This method of intercourse was, however, daily supplemented by sundry notes,
                        in the delicate, neat little hand of the novelist, or the splashing writing
                        of the lady, saying with little variation—“Dear Lady Atalanta, I fear I may
                        not have made my meaning very clear with respect to Chapter I, II, III,
                        IV—or whatever it might be—will you allow me to give you some verbal
                        explanations on the subject?” and “Dear Mr. Marion,—Do come
                            at once. I've got stuck over that beastly chapter V, VI, or
                        VII, and positively must see you about it.”
                    “Well, I never!” politely ejaculated Miss Vanderwerf regularly every
                        evening—“if that Marion isn't the most really kind and patient
                        creature on this earth!”
                    To which her friend the Princess, the other arbitress of Venetian society in
                        virtue of her palace, her bric-à-brac, and that knowledge of Marie Corelli
                        and Mrs. Campbell-Praed whlh balanced Miss Vanderwerf's capacity for
                        grasping the meaning of Gyp—invariably answered in her best English
                        colloquial:
                    “Well, my word! If that Lady Tal's not the most impudent amateur
                        scribble-scrabble of all the amateur scribble-scrabbles that England
                        produces.”
                    Remarks which immediately produced a lively 
                            dis-
                            discussion
                         cussion of Lady Tal and of
                        Marion, including the toilettes of the one and the books of the other, with
                        the result that neither retained a single moral, intellectual, or physical
                        advantage; and the obvious corollary, in the mind of the impartial listener,
                        that Jervase Marion evidently gave up much more of his time to Lady Tal and
                        her novel than to Miss Vanderwerf and the Princess and their respective
                        salons.
                    As a matter of fact, however, although a degree of impudence more politely
                        described as energy and determination, on the part of Lady Tal; and of
                        kindness, more correctly designated as feebleness of spirit, on the part of
                        Marion, had undoubtedly been necessary in the first stages of this
                        intercourse, yet nothing of either of these valuable social qualities had
                        been necessary for its continuation. Although maintaining that manner of
                        hers expressive of the complete rights which her name of Ossian and her
                        additional inches constituted over all things and people, Lady Tal had
                        become so genuinely enthusiastic for the novelist's art as revealed by
                        Marion, that her perpetual intrusion upon his leisure was that merely of an
                        ardent if somewhat inconsiderate disciple. In the eyes of this young lady,
                        development of character, foreshortening of narrative, construction, syntax,
                            nay, even grammar and punctuation, had
                        become inexhaustible subjects of meditation and discussion, upon which every
                        experience of life could be brought to bear.
                    So much for Lady Tal. As regards Marion, he had, not without considerable
                        self-contempt, surrendered himself to the demon of character study. This
                        passion for investigating into the feelings and motives of his neighbours
                        was at once the joy, the pride, and the bane and humiliation of Marion's
                        placid life. He was aware that he had, for years and years, cultivated this
                        tendency to the utmost; and he was fully convinced that to study other folks
                        and embody his studies in the most lucid form was the one mission of his
                        life, and a mission in nowise inferior to that of any other highly gifted
                        class of creatures. Indeed, if Jervase Marion, ever since his earliest
                        manhood, had given way to a tendency to withdraw from all personal concerns,
                        from all emotion or action, it was mainly because he conceived that this
                        shrinkingness of nature (which foolish persons called egoism) was the
                        necessary complement to his power of intellectual analysis; and that any
                        departure from the position of dispassioned spectator of the world's follies
                        and miseries would mean also a departure from his real duty as a novelist. To be brought into contact with people more
                        closely than was necessary or advantageous for their intellectual
                        comprehension; to think about them, feel about them, mistress, wife, son, or
                        daughter, the bare thought of such a thing jarred upon Marion's nerves. So,
                        the better to study, the better to be solitary, he had expatriated himself,
                        leaving brothers, sisters (now his mother was dead), friends of childhood,
                        all those things which invade a man's consciousness without any
                        psychological profit; he had condemned himself to live in a world of
                        acquaintances, of indifference; and, for sole diversion, he permitted
                        himself, every now and then, to come abroad to places where he had not even
                        acquaintances, where he could look at faces which had no associations for
                        him, and speculate upon the character of total strangers. Only, being a
                        methodical man, and much concerned for his bodily and intellectual health,
                        he occasionally thought fit to suspend even this contact with mankind, and
                        to spend six weeks, as he had intended spending those six weeks at Venice,
                        in the contemplation of only bricks and mortar.
                    And now, that demon of psychological study had got the better of his
                        determination. Marion 
                            under-
                            understood
                         stood it all now from the
                        beginning: that astonishing feebleness of his towards Lady Atalanta, that
                        extraordinary submission to this imperious and audacious young aristocrat's
                        orders. The explanation was simple, though curious. He had divined in Lady
                        Atalanta a very interesting psychological problem, considerably before he
                        had been able to formulate the fact to himself: his novelist's intuition,
                        like the scent of a dog, had set him on the track even before he knew the
                        nature of the game, or the desire to pursue. Before even beginning to think
                        about Lady Atalanta, he had begun to watch her; he was watching her now
                        consciously; indeed all his existence was engrossed in such watching, so
                        that the hours he spent away from her company, or the company of her novel,
                        were so many gaps in his life.
                    Jervase Marion, as a result both of that shrinkingness of nature, and of a
                        very delicate artistic instinct, had an aversion of such coarse methods of
                        study as consist in sitting down in front of a human being and staring, in a
                        metaphorical sense, at him or her. He was not a man of theories (their
                        cut-and-driedness offending his subtlety); but had he been forced to
                        formulate his ideas, he would have said that in order to perceive the real
                        values (in pictorial 
                            lan-
                            language
                         guage) of any individual, you
                        must beware of isolating him or her; you must merely look attentively at the
                        moving ocean of human faces, watching for the one face more particularly
                        interesting than the rest, and catching glimpses of its fleeting expression,
                        and of the expression of its neighbours as it appears and reappears.
                        Perhaps, however, Marion's other reason against the sit-down-and-stare or
                        walk-round-and-pray system of psychological study was really the stronger
                        one in his nature, the more so that he would probably not have admitted its
                        superior validity. This other reason was a kind of moral scruple against
                        getting to know the secret mechanism of a soul, especially if such knowledge
                        involved an appearance of intimacy with a person in whom he could never take
                        more than a merely abstract, artistic interest. It was a mean taking
                        advantage of superior strength, or the raising of expectations which could
                        not be fulfilled; for Marion, although the most benevolent and serviceable
                        of mortals, did not give his heart, perhaps because he had none to give, to
                        anybody.
                    This scruple had occurred to Marion almost as soon as he discovered himself
                        to be studying Lady Tal; and it occurred to him once or twice afterwards.
                        But he despatched it satisfactorily. Lady Tal, in the first place, was making use of him in the most
                        outrageous way, without scruple or excuse; it was only just that he, in his
                        turn, should turn her to profit with equal freedom. This reason, however,
                        savoured slightly of intellectual caddishness, and Marion rejected it with
                        scorn. The real one, he came to perceive, was that Lady Tal gratuitously
                        offered herself for study by her quiet, aggressive assumption of
                        inscrutability. She really thrust her inscrutability down one's throat; her
                        face, her manner, her every remark, her very novel, were all so many
                        audacious challenges to the more psychological members of the community. She
                        seemed to be playing on a gong and crying: “Does anyone feel inclined to
                        solve a riddle? Is there any person who thinks himself sufficiently clever
                        to understand me?” And when a woman takes up such an attitude, it is only
                        natural, human and proper that the first novelist who comes along that way
                        should stop and say: “I intend to get to the bottom of you; one, two, three,
                        I am going to begin.”
                    So Jervase Marion assiduously cultivated the society of Lady Atalanta, and
                        spent most of his time instructing her in the art of the novelist.
                
                
                
                    VI.
                    ONE morning Marion, by way of exception, saw and studied Lady Tal
                        without the usual medium of the famous novel. It was early, with the very
                        first autumn crispness in the blue morning, in the bright sun which would
                        soon burn, but as yet barely warmed. Marion was taking his usual ramble
                        through the tortuous Venetian alleys, and as usual he had found himself in
                        one of his favourite haunts, the market on the further slope of the
                        Rialto.
                    That market—the yellow and white awnings, and the white houses against the
                        delicate blue sky; the bales and festoons of red and green and blue and
                        purple cotton stuffs outside the little shops, and below that the shawled
                        women pattering down the bridge steps towards it; the monumental display of
                        piled up peaches and pears, and heaped up pumpkins and mysterious unknown
                        cognate vegetables, round and long, purple, yellow, red, grey, among the bay
                        leaves, the great, huge, smooth, green-striped things, cut open to show their red pulp, the huger things
                        looking as if nature had tried to gild and silver them unsuccessfully,
                        tumbled on to the pavement; the butchers' shops with the gorgeous bullocks'
                        hearts and sacrificial fleeced lambs; the endless hams and sausages—all this
                        market, under the blue sky, with this lazy, active, noisy, brawling,
                        friendly population jerking and lolling about it, always seemed to Marion
                        one of the delightful spots of Venice, pleasing him with a sense (although
                        he knew it to be all false) that here was a place where people
                        could eat and drink and laugh and live without any psychological
                        troubles.
                    On this particular morning, as this impression with the knowledge of its
                        falseness was as usual invading Marion's consciousness, he experienced a
                        little shock of surprise, incongruity, and the sudden extinction of a
                        pleasingly unreal mood, on perceiving, coming towards him, with hand
                        cavalierly on hip and umbrella firmly hitting the ground, the stately and
                        faultlessly coated and shirted and necktied figure of Lady Atalanta.
                    “I have had a go already at Christina,” she said, after
                        extending to Marion an angular though friendly handshake, and a cheerful
                        frank inscrutable smile of her big blue eyes and her little red mouth.
                            “That novel is turning me into another
                        woman: the power of sinning, as the Salvationists say, has been extracted
                        out of my nature even by the rootlets; I sat up till two last night after
                        returning fom the Lido, and got up this morning at six, all for the love of
                            Christina and literature. I expect Dawson will give me
                        warning; she told me yesterday that she ‘had never know any
                        other lady that writes so much or used them big sheets of paper, quite
                            henormous, my lady.’ Dear old place, isn't it? Ever tasted
                        any of that fried pumpkin? It's rather nasty but quite good; have some? I
                        wonder we've not met here before; I come here twice a week to shop. You
                        don't mind carrying parcels, do you?” Lady Tal had stopped at one of the
                        front stalls, and having had three vast yellow paper bags filled with
                        oranges and lemons, she handed the two largest to Marion.
                    “You'll carry them for me, won't you, there's a good creature: like that I
                        shall be able to get rather more rolls than I usually can. It's astonishing
                        how much sick folk care for rolls. I ought to explain I'm going to see some
                        creatures at the hospital. It takes too long going there in the gondola from
                        my place, so I walk. If you were to put those bags well on your chest like
                        that, under your chin, they'd be easier to
                        hold, and there'd be less chance of the oranges bobbing out.”
                    At a baker's in one of the little narrow streets near the church of the
                        Miracoli, Lady Atalanta provided herself with a bag of rolls, which she
                        swung by the string to her wrist. Marion then perceived that she was
                        carrying under her arm a parcel of paper-covered books, fastened with an
                        elastic band.
                    “Now we shall have got everything except some flowers, which I daresay we can
                        get somewhere on the way,” remarked Lady Tal. “Do you mind coming in here?”
                        and she entered one of those little grocer's shops, dignified with the arms
                        of Savoy in virtue of the sale of salt and tobacco, and where a little knot
                        of vague, wide-collared individuals usually hang about among the
                        various-shaped liqueur bottles in an atmosphere of stale cigar, brandy and
                        water, and kitchen soap.
                    “May—I—a—a—ask for anything for you, Lady Tal?” requested Marion, taken
                        completely by surprise by the rapidity of his companion's movements. “You
                        want stamps, I presume; may I have the honour of assisting you in
                        purchase?”
                    “Thanks, it isn't stamps; it's snuff, and you wouldn't know what sort to
                        get.” And Lady Tal, making her stately way
                        through the crowd of surprised loafers, put a franc on the counter and
                        requested the presiding female to give her four ounces of Semolino, but of the good sort—“It's
                        astonishing how faddy those old creatures are about their snuff!” remarked
                        Lady Tal, pocketing her change. “Would you put this snuff in your pocket for
                        me? Thanks. The other sort's called Bacubino, it's dark and clammy, and it looks nasty. Have you
                        ever taken snuff? I do sometimes to please my old creatures; it makes me
                        sneeze, you know, and they think that awful fun.”
                    As they went along Lady Atalanta suddenly perceived, in a little green den,
                        something which attracted her attention.
                    “I wonder whether they're fresh?” she mused. “I suppose you can't tell a
                        fresh egg when you see it, can you, Mr. Marion? Never mind, I'll risk it. If
                        you'll take this third bag of oranges, I'll carry the eggs—they might come
                        to grief in your hands, you know.”
                    “What an odious, odious creature a woman is,” thought Marion. He wondered,
                        considerably out of temper, why he should feel so miserable at having to
                        carry all those oranges. Of course with three gaping bags piled on his chest there was the explanation
                        of acute physical discomfort; but that wasn't sufficient. It seemed as if
                        this terrible, aristocratic giantess were doing it all on purpose to make
                        him miserable. He saw that he was intensely ridiculous in her eyes, with
                        those yellow bags against his white waistcoat and the parcel of snuff in his
                        coat pocket; his face was also, he thought, streaming with perspiration, and
                        he couldn't get at his handkerchief. It was childish, absurd of him to mind;
                        for, after all, wasn't Lady Atalanta equally burdened? But she, with her
                        packets of rolls, and packet of books, and basket of eggs, and her umbrella
                        tucked under her arm, looked serene and even triumphant in her striped
                        flannel.
                    “I beg your pardon—would you allow me to stop a minute and shift the bags to
                        the other arm?” Marion could no longer resist that fearful agony. “If you go
                        on I'll catch you up in a second.”
                    But just as Marion was about to rest the bags upon the marble balustrade of a
                        bridge, his paralysed arm gave an unaccountable jerk, and out flew one of
                        the oranges, and rolled slowly down the stone steps of the bridge.
                    “I say, don't do that! You'll have them all in the canal!” cried Lady
                        Atalanta, as Marion quickly stooped in vain
                        pursuit of the escaped orange, the movement naturally, and as if it were
                        being done on purpose, causing another orange to fly out in its turn; a
                        small number of spectators, gondoliers and workmen from under the bridge,
                        women nursing babies at neighbouring windows, and barefooted urchins from
                        nowhere in particular, starting up to enjoy the extraordinary complicated
                        conjuring tricks which the stout gentleman in the linen coat and Panama hat
                        had suddenly fallen to execute.
                    “Damn the beastly things!” ejaculated Marion, forgetful of Lady Atalanta and
                        good breeding, and perceiving only the oranges jumping and rolling about,
                        and feeling his face grow redder and hotter in the glare on that white stone
                        bridge. At that moment, as he raised his eyes, he saw, passing along, a
                        large party of Americans from his hotel; Americans whom he had avoided like
                        the plague, who, he felt sure, would go home and represent him as a poor
                        creature and a snob disavowing his “people.” He could hear them, in fancy,
                        describing how at Venice he had turned flunky to one of your English
                        aristocrats, who stood looking and making game of him while he ran after her
                        oranges, “and merely because she's the daughter of an Earl or Marquis or
                        such like.”
                    
                    “Bless my heart, how helpless is genius when it comes to practical matters!”
                        exclaimed Lady Atalanta. And putting her various packages down carefully on
                        the parapet, she calmly collected the bounding oranges, wiped them with her
                        handkerchief, and restored them to Marion, recommending him to “stick them
                        loose in his pockets.”
                    Marion had never been in a hospital (he had been only a boy, and in Europe
                        with his mother, a Southern refugee, at the time of the War), the fact
                        striking him as an omission in his novelist's education. But he felt as if
                        he would never wish to describe the one into which he mechanically followed
                        Lady Tal. With its immense, immensely lofty wards, filled with greyish
                        light, and radiating like the nave and transepts of a vast church from an
                        altar with flickering lights and kneeling figures, it struck Marion, while
                        he breathed that hot, thick air, sickly with carbolic and chloride of lime,
                        as a most gruesome and quite objectionably picturesque place. He had a vague
                        notion that the creatures in the rows and rows of greyish white beds ought
                        to have St. Vitus's dance or leprosy or some similar mediæval disease. They
                        were nasty enough objects, he thought, as he timidly followed Lady Tal's
                        rapid and resounding footsteps, for
                        anything. He had, for all the prosaic quality of his writings, the easily
                        roused imagination of a nervous man: and it seemed to him as if they were
                        all of them either skeletons gibbering and screeching in bed, or frightful
                        yellow and red tumid creatures, covered with plasters and ligatures, or old
                        ladies recently liberated from the cellar in which, as you may periodically
                        read in certain public prints, they had been kept by barbarous nephews or
                        grandchildren—
                    “Dear me, dear me, what a dreadful place!” he kept ejaculating, as he
                        followed Lady Atalanta, carrying her bags of oranges and rolls, among the
                        vociferating, grabbing beldames in bed, and the indifferent nuns and serving
                        wenches toiling about noisily: Lady Tal going methodically her way,
                        businesslike, cheerful, giving to one some snuff, to another an orange or a
                        book, laughing, joking in her bad Italian, settling the creatures'
                        disagreeable bed-clothes and pillows for them, as if instead of cosseting
                        dying folk, she was going round to the counters of some huge shop. A most
                        painful exhibition, thought Marion.
                    “I say, suppose you talk to her, she's a nice little commonplace creature who
                        wanted to be a school-mistress and is awfully fond of reading novels—tell her—I don't know how to explain it—that
                        you write novels. See, Teresina, this gentleman and I are writing a book
                        together, all about a lady who married a silly husband—would you like to
                        hear about it?”
                    Stroking the thin white face, with the wide forget-me-not eyes, of the
                        pretty, thin little blonde, Lady Tal left Marion, to his extreme discomfort,
                        seated on the edge of a straw chair by the side of the bed, a bag of oranges
                        on his knees and absolutely no ideas in his head.
                    “She is so good,” remarked the little girl, opening and shutting a little fan
                        which Lady Tal had just given her, “and so beautiful. Is she your sister?
                        She told me she had a brother whom she was very fond of, but I thought he
                        was dead. She's like an angel in Paradise.”
                    “Precisely, precisely,” answered Marion, thinking at the same time what an
                        uncommonly uncomfortable place Paradise must, in that case, be. All this was
                        not at all what he had imagined when he had occasionally written about young
                        ladies consoling the sick; this businesslike, bouncing, cheerful
                        shake-up-your-pillows and shake-up-your-soul mode of proceeding.
                    
                    Lady Tal, he decided within himself, had emphatically no soul; all he had
                        just witnessed, proved it.
                    “Why do you do it?” he suddenly asked, as they emerged from the hospital
                        cloisters. He knew quite well: merely because she was so abominably
                        active.
                    “I don't know. I like ill folk. I'm always so disgustingly well myself; and
                        you see with my poor brother, I'd got accustomed to ill folk, so I suppose I
                        can't do without. I should like to settle in England—if it weren't for all
                        those hateful relations of mine and of my husband's—and go and live in the
                        East End and look after sick creatures. At least I think I should; but I
                        know I shouldn't.”
                    “Why not?” asked Marion.
                    “Why? Oh, well, it's making oneself conspicuous, you know, and all that. One
                        hates to be thought eccentric, of course. And then, if I went to England, of
                        course I should have to go into society, otherwise people would go and say
                        that I was out of it and had been up to something or other. And if I went
                        into society, that would mean doing simply nothing else, not even the little
                        I do here. You see I'm not an independent woman; all my husband's relations
                        are perpetually ready to pull me to pieces on account of his money! There's
                        nothing they're not prepared to invent
                        about me. I'm too poor and too expensive to do without it, and as long as I
                        take his money, I must see to no one being able to say anything that would
                        have annoyed him—see?”
                    “I see,” answered Marion.
                    At that moment Lady Atalanta perceived a gondola turning a corner, and in it
                        the young millionaire whom she had chaffed about his sideboard.
                    “Hi, hi! Mr. Clarence!” she cried, waving her umbrella. “Will you take me to
                        that curiosity-dealer's this afternoon?”
                    Marion looked at her, standing there on the little wharf, waving her red
                        umbrella and shouting to the gondola; her magnificent rather wooden figure
                        more impeccably magnificent, uninteresting in her mannish flannel garments,
                        her handsome pink and white face, as she smiled that inexpressive smile with
                        all the pearl-like little teeth, more than ever like a big mask—
                    “No soul, decidedly no soul,” said the novelist to himself. And he reflected
                        that women without souls were vaguely odious.
                
                
                
                    VII.
                    “I HAVE been wondering of late why I liked you?” said Lady Tal one
                        morning at lunch, addressing the remark to Marion, and cut short in her
                        speech by a burst of laughter from that odious tomboy of a cousin of hers
                        (how could she endure that girl? Marion reflected) who exclaimed, with an
                        affectation of milkmaid archness:
                    
                            “
                            '
                        Oh, Tal! how can you be so rude to the
                            gentleman? You oughtn't to say to people you wonder why you
                        like them. Ought she, Mr. Marion?”
                    Marion was silent. He felt a weak worm for disliking this big blond girl with
                        the atrocious manners, who insisted on pronouncing his name Mary
                            Anne, with unfailing relish of the joke. Lady Tal did not heed
                        the interruption, but repeated pensively, leaning her handsome cleft chin on
                        her hand, and hacking at a peach with her knife: “I have been wondering why
                        I like you, Mr. Marion (I usedn't to, but
                        made up to you for Christina's benefit), because you are not a
                        bit like poor Gerald. But I've found out now and I'm pleased. There's
                        nothing so pleasant in this world as finding out why one thinks
                        or does things, is there? Indeed it's the only pleasant thing, besides
                        riding in the Campagna and drinking iced water on a hot day. The reason I
                        like you is because you have seen a lot of the world and of people, and
                        still take nice views of them. The people one meets always think to show
                        their cleverness by explaining everything by nasty little motives; and you
                        don't. It's nice of you, and it's clever. It's cleverer than your books
                        even, you know.”
                    In making this remark (and she made it with an aristocratic indifference to
                        being personal) Lady Atalanta had most certainly hit the right nail on the
                        head. That gift, a rare one, of seeing the simple, wholesome, and even
                        comparatively noble, side of things; of being, although a pessimist, no
                        misanthrope, was the most remarkable characteristic of Jervase Marion; it
                        was the one which made him, for all his old bachelor ways and his shrinking
                        from close personal contact, a man and a manly man, giving this analytical
                        and nervous person a certain calmness and gentleness and strength.
                    
                    But Lady Tal's remark, although in the main singularly correct, smote him
                        like a rod. For it so happened that for once in his life Marion had not been
                        looking with impartial, serene, and unsuspecting eyes upon one of his
                        fellow-sufferers in this melancholy world; and that one creature to whom he
                        was not so good as he might be, was just Lady Tal.
                    He could not really have explained how it was. But there was the certainty,
                        that while recognising in Lady Tal's conversation, in her novel, in the
                        little she told him of her life, a great deal which was delicate, and even
                        noble, wherewithal to make up a somewhat unusual and perhaps not very
                        superficially attractive, but certainly an original and desirable
                        personality, he had got into the habit of explaining whatever in her was
                        obscure and contradictory by unworthy reasons; and even of making allowance
                        for the possibility of all the seeming good points proving, some day, to be
                        a delusion and a snare. Perhaps it depended upon the constant criticisms he
                        was hearing on all sides of Lady Atalanta's character and conduct: the story
                        of her mercenary marriage, the recital of the astounding want of feeling
                        displayed upon the occasion of her brother's death, and that perpetual, and
                        apparently too well founded suggestion that
                        this young lady, who possessed fifteen thousand a year and apparently spent
                        about two, must be feathering her nest and neatly evading the intentions of
                        her late lamented. Moreover there was something vaguely disagreeable in the
                        extraordinary absence of human emotion displayed in such portion of her
                        biography as might be considered public property.
                    Marion, heaven knows, didn't like women who went in for grande passion; in fact passion, which he had
                        neither experienced nor described, was distinctly repulsive to him. But,
                        after all, Lady Tal was young, Lady Tal was beautiful, and Lady Tal had for
                        years and yeats been a real and undoubted widow; and it was therefore
                        distinctly inhuman on the part of Lady Tal to have met no temptations to
                        part with her heart, and with her jointure. It was ugly; there was no doubt
                        it was ugly. The world, after all, has a right to demand that a
                        young lady of good birth and average education should have a heart. It was
                        doubtless also, he said to himself, the fault of Lady Atalanta's physique,
                        this suspicious attitude of his; nature had bestowed upon her a face like a
                        mask, muscles which never flinched, nerves apparently hidden many inches
                        deeper than most folk's: she was enigmatic, and a man has a right to pause before an enigma. Furthermore—But
                        Marion could not quite understand that furthermore.
                    He understood it a few days later. They had had the usual séance over Christina that
                        morning; and now it was evening, and three or four people had dropped in at
                        Lady Tal's after the usual stroll at Saint Mark's. Lady Tal had hired a
                        small house, dignified with the title of Palazzina, on the Zattere. It was
                        modern, and the æsthetic colony at Venice sneered at a woman with that
                        amount of money inhabiting anything short of a palace. They themselves being
                        mainly Americans, declared they couldn't feel like home in a dwelling which
                        was not possessed of historical reminiscences. The point of Lady Tal's
                        little place, as she called it, was that it possessed a garden; small
                        indeed, but round which, as she remarked, one solitary female could walk. In
                        this garden she and Marion were at this moment walking. The ground floor
                        windows were open, and there issued from the drawing-room a sound of cups
                        and saucers, of guitar strumming and laughter, above which rose the loud
                        voice, the aristocratic kitchen-maid pronunciation of Lady Atalanta's tomboy
                        cousin.
                    “Where's Tal? I declare if Tal hasn't gone off with Mary Anne! Poor Mary
                        Anne! She's tellin' him all about
                            Christina, you know; how she can't manage that row between
                        Christina and Christina's mother-in-law, and the semicolons and all that.
                            Christina's the novel, you know. You'll be expected to ask
                        for Christina at your club, you know, when it comes out, Mr.
                        Clarence. I've already written to all my cousins to get it from
                        Mudie's—”
                    Marion gave a little frown, as if his boot pinched him, as he walked on the
                        gravel down there, among the dark bushes, the spectral little terra-cotta
                        statues, with the rigging of the ships on the Giudecca canal black against
                        the blue evening sky, with a vague, sweet, heady smell of Olea fragrans all round. Confound that girl!
                        Why couldn't he take a stroll in a garden with a handsome woman of thirty
                        without the company being informed that it was only on account of Lady Tal's
                        novel. That novel, that position of literary adviser, of a kind of male
                        daily governess, would make him ridiculous. Of course Lady Tal was
                        continually making use of him, merely making use of him in her barefaced and
                        brutal manner: of course she didn't care a hang about him except to help her
                        with that novel: of course as soon as that novel was done with she would
                        drop him. He knew all that, and it was natural. But he really didn't see
                            the joke of being made conspicuous and
                        grotesque before all Venice—
                    “Shan't we go in, Lady Tal?” he said sharply, throwing away his cigarette.
                        “Your other guests are doubtless sighing for your presence.”
                    “And this guest here is not. Oh dear, no; there's Gertrude to look after them
                        and see to their being happy; besides, I don't care whether they are. I want
                        to speak to you. I can't understand your thinking that situation strained. I
                        should have thought it the commonest thing in the world, I mean, gracious— I
                        can't understand your not understanding!”
                    Jervase Marion was in the humour when he considered Lady Tal a legitimate
                        subject of study, and intellectual vivisection a praiseworthy employment.
                        Such study implies, as a rule, a good deal of duplicity on the part of the
                        observer; duplicity doubtless sanctified, like all the rest, by the high
                        mission of prying into one's neighbour's soul.
                    “Well,” answered Marion—he positively hated that good French Alabama name of
                        his, since hearing it turned into Mary Anne—“of course one understands a
                        woman avoiding, for many reasons, the temptation of one individual passion;
                        but a woman who makes up her mind to avoid
                        the temptation of all passion in the abstract, and what is more, acts
                        consistently and persistently with this object in view, particularly when
                        she has never experienced passion at all, when she has not even burnt the
                        tips of her fingers once in her life—; that does seem rather far fetched,
                        you must admit.”
                    Lady Tal was not silent for a moment, as he expected she would be. She did
                        not seem to see the danger of having the secret of her life extracted out of
                        her.
                    “I don't see why you should say so, merely because the person's a woman. I'm
                        sure you must have met examples enough of men who, without ever having been
                        in love, or in danger of being in love—poor little things—have gone through
                        life with a resolute policy of never placing themselves in danger, of never
                        so much as taking their heart out of their waistcoat pockets to look at it,
                        lest it might suddenly be jerked out of their possession.”
                    It was Marion who was silent. Had it not been dark, Lady Tal might have seen
                        him wince and redden; and he might have seen Lady Tal smile a very odd but
                        not disagreeable smile. And they fell to discussing the technicalities of
                        that famous novel.
                    
                    Marion outstayed for a moment or two the other guests. The facetious cousin
                        was strumming in the next room, trying over a Venetian song which the naval
                        captain had taught her. Marion was slowly taking a third cup of tea—he
                        wondered why he should be taking so much tea, it was very bad for his
                        nerves,—seated among the flowering shrubs, the bits of old brocade and
                        embroidery, the various pieces of bric-à-brac which made the drawing-room of
                        Lady Tal look, as all distinguished modern drawing-rooms should, like a
                        cross between a flower show and a pawnbroker's, and as if the height of
                        modern upholstery consisted in avoiding the use of needles and nails, and
                        enabling the visitors to sit in a little heap of variegated rags. Lady Tal
                        was arranging a lamp, which burned, or rather smoked, at this moment,
                        surrounded by lace petticoats on a carved column.
                    “Ah,” she suddenly said, “it's extraordinary how difficult it is to get
                        oneself understood in this world. I'm thinking about Christina,
                        you know. I never do expect any one to understand anything, as
                        a matter of fact. But I thought that was probably because all my friends
                        hitherto have been all frivolous poops who read only the Peerage and the
                        sporting papers. I should have thought, now, that writing novels would have made you different. I suppose, after
                        all, it's all a question of physical constitution and blood
                        relationship—being able to understand other folk, I mean. If one's molecules
                        aren't precisely the same and in the same place (don't be surprised, I've
                        been reading Carpenter's ‘Mental Physiology’), it's no good. It's certain
                        that the only person in the world who has ever understood me one bit was
                        Gerald.”
                    Lady Tal's back was turned to Marion, her tall figure a mere dark mass
                        against the light of the lamp, and the lit-up white wall behind.
                    “And still,” suddenly remarked Marion, “you were not—not—very
                        much attached to your brother, were you?”
                    The words were not out of Marion's mouth before he positively trembled at
                        them. Good God! what had he allowed himself to say? But he had no time to
                        think of his own words. Lady Tal had turned round, her eyes fell upon him.
                        Her face was pale, very quiet; not angry, but disdainful. With one hand she
                        continued to adjust the lamp.
                    “I see,” she said coldly, “you have heard all about my extraordinary
                        behaviour, or want of extraordinary behaviour. It appears I did surprise and
                        shock my acquaintances very much by my 
                            proceed-
                            proceedings
                         ings after Gerald's death. I
                        suppose it really is the right thing for a woman to go into hysterics and
                        take to her bed and shut herself up for three months at least, when her only
                        brother dies. I didn't think of that at the time; otherwise I should have
                        conformed, of course. It's my policy always to conform, you know. I see now
                        that I made a mistake, showed a want of savoir-vivre, and all that—I stupidly consulted my own
                        preferences, and I happened to prefer keeping myself well in hand. I didn't
                        seem to like people's sympathy; now the world, you know, has a right to give
                        one its sympathies under certain circumstances, just as a foreign man has a
                        right to leave his card when he's been introduced. Also, I knew that Gerald
                        would have just hated my making myself a motley to the view—you
                        mightn't think it, but we used to read Shakespeare's sonnets, he and I—and,
                        you see, I cared for only one mortal thing in the world, to do what Gerald
                        wanted. I never have cared for any other thing, really; after all, if I
                        don't want to be conspicuous, it's because Gerald would have hated it—I
                        never shall care for anything in the world besides that. All the rest's mere
                        unreality. One thinks one's alive, but one isn't.”
                    Lady Atalanta had left off fidgeting with the lamp. Her big blue eyes had all at once brightened with
                        tears which did not fall; but as she spoke the last words, in a voice
                        suddenly husky, she looked down at Marion with an odd smile, tearing a paper
                        spill with her large, well-shaped fingers as she did so.
                    “Do you see?” she added, with that half-contemptuous smile, calmly mopping
                        her eyes. “That's how it is, Mr. Marion.”
                    A sudden light illuminated Marion's mind; a light, and with it something
                        else, he knew not what, something akin to music, to perfume, beautiful,
                        delightful, but solemn. He was aware of being moved, horribly grieved, but
                        at the same moment intensely glad; he was on the point of saying he didn't
                        know beforehand what, something which, however, would be all right, natural,
                        like the things, suddenly improvised, which one says occasionally to
                        children.
                    “My dear young lady—”
                    But the words did not pass Marion's lips. He remembered suddenly by what
                        means and in what spirit he had elicited this unexpected burst of feeling on
                        the part of Lady Tal. He could not let her go on, he could not take
                        advantage of her; he had not the courage to say: “Lady Tal, I am a miserable
                        cad who was prying into your feelings; I'm not fit to be spoken to!” And with the intolerable shame at his
                        own caddishness came that old shrinking from any sort of spiritual contact
                        with others.
                    “Quite so, quite so,” he merely answered, looking at his boots and moving
                        that ring of his mother's up and down his watch chain. “I quite understand.
                        And as a matter of fact you are quite correct in your remark about our not
                        being always alive. Or rather we are usually alive, when we are
                        living our hum-drum little natural existence, full of nothing at all; and
                        during the moments when we do really seem to be alive, to be feeling,
                        living, we are not ourselves, but somebody else.”
                    Marion had had no intention of making a cynical speech. He had been aware of
                        having behaved like a cad to Lady Tal, and in consequence, had somehow
                        informed Lady Tal he considered her as an impostor. He had reacted against
                        that first overwhelming sense of pleasure at the discovery of the lady's
                        much-questioned soul. Now he was prepared to tell her that she had none.
                    “Yes,” answered Lady Tal, lighting a cigarette over the high lamp, “that's
                        just it. I shall borrow that remark and put it into Christina.
                        You may use up any remark of mine, in return, you know.”
                    
                    She stuck out her under lip with that ugly little cynical movement which was
                        not even her own property, but borrowed from women more trivial than herself
                        like the way of carrying the elbows, and the pronunciation of certain words:
                        a mark of caste, as a blue triangle on one's chin or a yellow butterfly on
                        one's forehead might be, and not more graceful or engaging.
                    “One thinks one has a soul sometimes,” she mused. “It isn't true. It would
                        prevent one's clothes fitting, wouldn't it? One really acts in this way or
                        that because it's better form. You see here on the Continent
                        it's good form to tear one's hair and roll on the floor, and to pretend to
                        have a soul; we've got beyond that, as we've got beyond women trying to seem
                        to know about art and literature. Here they do, and make idiots of
                        themselves. Just now you thought I'd got a soul, didn't you, Mr. Marion?
                        You've been wondering all along whether I had one. For a minute I managed to
                        make you believe it—it was rather mean of me, wasn't it? I haven't got one.
                        I'm a great deal too well-bred.”
                    There was a little soreness under all this banter; but how could she banter?
                        Marion felt he detested the woman, as she put out her elbow and extended a
                        stiff handsome hand, and said:
                    
                    “Remember poor old Christina to-morrow morning, there's a kind
                        man,” with that little smile of close eyes and close lips. He detested her
                        just in proportion as he had liked her half an hour ago. Remembering that
                        little gush of feeling of his own, he thought her a base creature, as he
                        walked across the little moonlit square with the well in the middle and the
                        tall white houses all round.
                    Jervase Marion, the next morning, woke up with the consciousness of having
                        been very unfair to Lady Tal, and, what was worse, very unfair to himself.
                        It was one of the drawbacks of friendship (for, after all, this was a kind
                        of friendship) that he occasionally caught himself saying things quite
                        different from his thoughts and feelings, masquerading towards people in a
                        manner distinctly humiliating to his self-respect. Marion had a desire to be
                        simple and truthful; but somehow it was difficult to be simple and truthful
                        as soon as other folk came into play; it was difficult and disagreeable to
                        show one's real self; that was another reason for living solitary on a top
                        flat at Westminster, and descending therefrom in the body, but not in the
                        spirit, to move about among mere acquaintances, disembodied things, with
                        whom there was no fear of real contact. On this occasion he had let himself come in contact with a
                        fellow-creature; and behold, as a result, he had not only behaved more or
                        less like a cad, but he had done that odious thing of pretending to feel
                        differently from how he really did.
                    From how he had really felt at the moment, be it well understood. Of course
                        Marion, in his capacity of modern analytical novelist, was perfectly well
                        aware that feelings are mere momentary matters; and that the feeling which
                        had possessed him the previous evening, and still possessed him at the
                        present moment, would not last. The feeling, he admitted to himself (it is
                        much easier to admit such things to one's self, when one makes the proviso
                        that it's all a mere passing phase, one's eternal immutable self, looking on
                        placidly at one's momentary changing self), the feeling in question was
                        vaguely admiring and pathetic, as regarded Lady Tal. He even confessed to
                        himself that there entered into it a slight dose of poetry. This big,
                        correct young woman, with the beautiful inexpressive face and the ugly
                        inexpressive manners, carrying through life a rather exotic little romance
                        which no one must suspect, possessed a charm for the imagination, a decided
                        value. Excluded for some reason (Marion blurred out his 
                            knowl-
                            knowledge
                         edge that the reasons were the
                        late Walkenshaw's thousands) from the field for emotions and interests which
                        handsome, big young women have a right to, and transferring them all to a
                        nice crippled brother, who had of course not been half as nice as she
                        imagined, living a conventional life, with a religion of love and fidelity
                        secreted within it, this well-born and well-dressed Countess Olivia of
                        modern days, had appealed very strongly to a certain carefully guarded
                        tenderness and chivalry in Marion's nature; he saw her, as she had stood
                        arranging that lamp, with those unexpected tears brimming in her eyes.
                    Decidedly. Only that, of course, wasn't the way to treat it. There was
                        nothing at all artistic in that, nothing modern. And Marion was essentially
                        modern in his novels. Lady Tal, doing the Lady Olivia, with a dead brother
                        in the background, sundry dukes in the middle distance, and no enchanting
                        page (people seemed unanimous in agreeing that Lady Tal had never been in
                        love) perceptible anywhere; all that was pretty, but it wasn't the right
                        thing. Jervase Marion thought Lady Tal painfully conventional (although of
                        course her conventionality gave all the value to her romantic quality)
                        because she slightly dropped her final g's, and visibly stuck
                        out her elbows, and 
                            reso-
                            resolutely
                         lutely refused to display emotion
                        of any kind. Marion himself was firmly wedded to various modes of looking at
                        human concerns, which corresponded, in the realm of novel-writing, to these
                        same modern conventionalities of Lady Atalanta's. The point of it,
                        evidently, must be that the Lady of his novel would have lived for years
                        under the influence of an invalid friend (the brother should be turned into
                        a woman with a mortal malady, and a bad husband, something in the way of
                        Emma and Tony in “Diana of the Crossways,” of intellectual and moral quality
                        immensely superior to her own); then, of course, after the death of the
                        Princess of Trasimeno (she being the late Gerald Burne), Lady Tal (Marion
                        couldn't fix on a name for her) would gradually be sucked back into
                        frivolous and futile and heartless society; the hic of the whole story being the slow ebbing of that noble
                        influence, the daily encroachments of the baser sides of Lady Tal's own
                        nature, and of the base side of the world. She would have a chance, say by
                        marrying a comparatively poor man, of securing herself from that rising tide
                        of worldly futility and meanness; the reader must think that she really was
                        going to love the man, to choose him. Or rather, it would be more modern and
                        artistic, less romantic, if the intelligent
                        reader were made to foresee the dismal necessity of Lady Tal's final
                        absorption into moral and intellectual nothingness. Yes—the sort of thing
                        she would live for, a round of monotonous dissipation, which couldn't amuse
                        her; of expenditure merely for the sake of expenditure, of conventionality
                        merely for the sake of conventionality;—and the sham, clever, demoralised
                        women, with their various semi-imaginary grievances against the world, their
                        husbands and children, their feeble self-conscious hankerings after
                        mesmerism, spiritualism, Buddhism, and the other forms of intellectual
                        adulteration—he saw it all. Marion threw his cigar into the canal, and
                        nursed his leg tighter, as he sat all alone in his gondola, and looked up at
                        the bay trees and oleanders, the yellow straw blinds of Lady Tal's little
                        house on the Zattere.
                    It would make a capital novel. Marion's mind began to be inundated with
                        details: all those conversations about Lady Tal rushed back into it, her
                        conventionality, perceptible even to others, her disagreeable
                        parsimoniousness, visibly feathering her nest with the late Walkenshaw's
                        money, while quite unable to screw up her courage to deliberately forego it,
                        that odd double-graspingness of nature.
                    That was evidently the final degradation. It
                        would be awfully plucky to put it in, after showing what the woman had been
                        and might have been; after showing her coquettings with better things (the
                        writing of that novel, for instance, for which he must find an equivalent).
                        It would be plucky, modern, artistic, to face the excessive sordidness of
                        this ending. And still—and still—Marion felt a feeble repugnance to putting
                        it in; it seemed too horrid. And at the same moment, there arose in him that
                        vague, disquieting sense of being a cad, which had distressed him that
                        evening. To suspect a woman of all that—and yet, Marion answered himself
                        with a certain savageness, he knew it to be the case.
                
                
                
                    VIII.
                    THEY had separated from the rest of the picnickers, and were walking
                        up and down that little orchard or field—rows of brown maize distaffs and
                        tangles of reddening half trodden-down maize leaves, and patches of tall
                        grass powdered with hemlock under the now rather battered vine garlands, the
                        pomegranate branches weighed down by their vermilion fruit, the peach
                        branches making a Japanese pattern of narrow crimson leaves against the blue
                        sky—that odd cultivated corner in the God-forsaken little marsh island,
                        given up to sea-gulls and picnickers, of Torcello.
                    “Poor little Clarence,” mused Lady Tal, alluding to the rather feeble-minded
                        young millionaire, who had brought them there, five gondolas full of women
                        in lilac and pink and straw-coloured frocks, and men in white coats, three
                        guitars, a banjo, and two mandolins, and the corresponding proportion of
                            table linen, knives and forks, pies,
                        bottles, and sweetmeats with crinkled papers round them. “Poor little
                        Clarence, he isn't a bad little thing, is he? He wouldn't be bad to a woman
                        who married him, would he?”
                    “He would adore her,” answered Jervase Marion, walking up and down that
                        orchard by Lady Tal's side. “He would give her everything the heart of woman
                        could desire; carriages, horses, and diamonds, and frocks from Worth, and
                        portraits by Lenbach and Sargent, and bric-à-brac, and—ever so much money
                        for charities, hospitals, that sort of thing—and—and complete leisure and
                        freedom and opportunities for enjoying the company of men not quite so well
                        off as himself.”
                    Marion stopped short, his hands thrust in his pockets, and with that frown
                        which made people think that his boots pinched. He was looking down at his
                        boots at this moment, though he was really thinking of that famous novel,
                        his, not Lady Tal's; so Lady Tal may have perhaps thought it was the boots
                        that made him frown, and speak in a short, cross little way. Apparently she
                        thought so, for she took no notice of his looks, his intonation, or his
                        speech.
                    “Yes,” she continued musing, striking the ground with her umbrella, “he's a good little thing.
                        It's good to bring us all to Torcello, with all that food and those guitars,
                        and banjos and things, particularly as we none of us throw a word at him in
                        return. And he seems so pleased. It shows a very amiable, self-effacing
                        disposition, and that's, after all, the chief thing in marriage. But, Lord!
                        how dreary it would be to see that man at breakfast, and lunch, and dinner!
                        or if one didn't, merely to know that there he must be, having breakfast,
                        lunch and dinner somewhere—for I suppose he would have to have them—that man
                        existing somewhere on the face of the globe, and speaking of one as ‘my
                        wife.’ Fancy knowing the creature was always smiling, whatever one did, and
                        never more jealous than my umbrella. Wouldn't it feel like being one of the
                        fish in that tank we saw? Wouldn't living with the Bishop—is he a bishop?—of
                        Torcello, in that musty little house with all the lichen stains and mosquito
                        nests, and nothing but Attila's throne to call upon—be fun compared with
                        that? Yes, I suppose it's wise to marry Clarence. I suppose I shall do right
                        in making him marry my cousin. You know”—she added, speaking all these words
                        slowly—“I could make him marry anybody, because he wants to marry me.”
                    
                    Marion gave a little start as Lady Tal had slowly pronounced those two words,
                        “my cousin.” Lady 
                            
                            ,
                        Tal noticed it.
                    “You thought I had contemplated having Clarence myself?” she said, looking at
                        the novelist with a whimsical, amused look. “Well, so I have. I have
                        contemplated a great many things, and not had the courage to do them. I've
                        contemplated going off to Germany, and studying nursing; and going off to
                        France, and studying painting; I've contemplated turning Catholic, and going
                        into a convent. I've contemplated—well—I'm contemplating at present—becoming
                        a great novelist, as you know. I've contemplated marrying poor
                        men, and becoming their amateur charwoman; and I've contemplated marrying
                        rich men, and becoming—well, whatever a penniless woman does become when she
                        marries a rich man; but I've done that once before, and once is enough of
                        any experience in life, at least for a person of philosophic cast of mind,
                        don't you think? I confess I have been contemplating the possibility of
                        marrying Clarence, though I don't see my way to it. You see, it's not
                        exactly a pleasant position to be a widow and not to be one, as I am, in a
                        certain sense. Also, I'm bored with living on my poor husband's money, particularly as I know he wished
                        me to find it as inconvenient as possible to do so. I'm bored with keeping
                        the capital from that wretched boy and his mother, who would get it all as
                        soon as I was safely married again. That's it. As a matter of fact I'm bored
                        with all life, as I daresay most people are; but to marry this particular
                        Clarence, or any other Clarence that may be disporting himself about,
                        wouldn't somehow diminish the boringness of things. Do you see?”
                    “I see,” answered Marion. Good Heavens, what a thing it is to be a
                        psychological novelist! and how exactly he had guessed at the reality of
                        Lady Atalanta's character and situation. He would scarcely venture to write
                        that novel of his; he might as well call it Lady Tal at once.
                        It was doubtless this discovery which made him grow suddenly very red and
                        feel an intolerable desire to say he knew not what.
                    They continued walking up and down that little orchard, the brown maize
                        leaves all around, the bright green and vermilion enamel of the pomegranate
                        trees, the Japanese pattern, red and yellow, of the peach branches, against
                        the blue sky above.
                    “My dear Lady Tal,” began Marion, “my dear young lady, will you allow—an
                        elderly student of human nature to
                        say—how—I fear it must seem very impertinent—how thoroughly—taking your
                        whole situation as if it were that of a third person—he understanding its
                        difficulties—and, taking the situation no longer quite as that of a third
                        person, how earnestly he hopes that—”
                    Marion was going to say “you will not derogate from the real nobility of your
                        nature.” But only a fool could say such a thing; besides, of course, Lady
                        Tal must derogate. So he finished off:
                    “That events will bring some day a perfectly satisfactory, though perhaps
                        unforeseen, conclusion for you.”
                    Lady Tal was paying no attention. She plucked one of the long withered peach
                        leaves, delicate, and red, and transparent, like a Chinese visiting card,
                        and began to pull it through her fingers.
                    “You see,” she said, “of the income my husband left me, I've been taking only
                        as much as seemed necessary—about two thousand a year. I mean necessary that
                        people shouldn't see that I'm doing this sort of thing; because, after all,
                        I suppose a woman could live on less, though I am an expensive woman.—The
                        rest, of course, I've been letting accumulate for the heir; I couldn't give
                        it him, for that would have been going
                        against my husband's will. But it's rather boring to feel one's keeping that
                        boy,—such a nasty young brute as he is—and his horrid mother out of all that
                        money, merely by being there. It's rather humiliating, but it would be more
                        humiliating to marry another man for his money. And I don't suppose a poor
                        man would have me; and perhaps I wouldn't have a poor man. Now, suppose I
                        were the heroine of your novel—you know you are writing a novel
                        about me, that's what makes you so patient with me and
                            Christina, you're just walking round, and looking at
                        me—”
                    “Oh, my dear Lady Tal—how—how can you think such a thing!” gobbled out Marion
                        indignantly. And really, at the moment of speaking, he did feel a perfectly
                        unprofessional interest in this young lady, and was considerably aggrieved
                        at this accusation.
                    “Aren't you? Well, I thought you were. You see I have novel on the brain.
                        Well, just suppose you were writing that novel, with me for a
                        heroine, what would you advise me? One has got accustomed to having certain
                        things—a certain amount of clothes, and bric-à-brac and horses, and so
                        forth, and to consider them necessary. And yet, I think if one were to lose them all to-morrow, it wouldn't
                        make much difference. One would merely say: ‘Dear me, what's become of it
                        all?’ And yet I suppose one does require them—other people have them, so I
                        suppose it's right one should have them also. Other people like to come to
                        Torcello in five gondolas with three guitars, a banjo, and lunch, and to
                        spend two hours feeding and littering the grass with paper bags; so I
                        suppose one ought to like it too. If it's right, I like it. I always
                        conform, you know; only it's rather dull work, don't you think, considered
                        as an interest in life? Everything is dull work, for the matter of that,
                        except dear old Christina. What do you think one might do to
                        make things a little less dull? But perhaps everything is equally dull—”
                    Lady Tal raised one of those delicately-pencilled, immensely arched eyebrows
                        of hers, with a sceptical little sigh, and looked in front of her, where
                        they were standing.
                    Before them rose the feathery brown and lilac of the little marsh at the end
                        of the orchard, long seeding reeds, sere grasses, sea lavender, and
                        Michaelmas daisy; and above that delicate bloom, on an unseen strip of
                        lagoon, moved a big yellow and brown sail,
                        slowly flapping against the blue sky. From the orchard behind, rose at
                        intervals the whirr of a belated cicala; they heard the dry maize leaves
                        crack beneath their feet.
                    “It's all very lovely,” remarked Lady Tal pensively; “but it doesn't somehow
                        fit in properly. It's silly for people like me to come to such a place. As a
                        rule, since Gerald's death, I only go for walks in civilized places: they're
                        more in harmony with my frocks.”
                    Jervase Marion did not answer. He leaned against the bole of a peach tree,
                        looking out at the lilac and brown sea marsh and the yellow sail, seeing
                        them with that merely physical intentness which accompanies great mental
                        preoccupation. He was greatly moved. He was aware of a fearful
                        responsibility. Yet neither the emotion nor the responsibility made him
                        wretched, as he always fancied that all emotion or responsibility must.
                    He seemed suddenly to be in this young woman's place, to feel the already
                        begun, and rapid increasing withering-up of this woman's soul, the dropping
                        away from it of all real, honest, vital interests. She seemed to him in
                        horrible danger, the danger of something like death. And there was but one
                        salvation: to give up that money, to make
                        herself free—Yes, yes, there was nothing for it but that. Lady Tal, who
                        usually struck him as so oppressively grown up, powerful, able to cope with
                        everything, affected him at this moment as a something very young, helpless,
                        almost childish; he understood so well that during all those years this big
                        woman in her stiff clothes, with her inexpressive face, had been a mere
                        child in the hands of her brother, that she had never thought, or acted, or
                        felt for herself; that she had not lived.
                    Give up that money; give up that money; marry some nice young fellow who will
                        care for you; become the mother of a lot of nice little children—The words
                        went on and on in Marion's mind, close to his lips; but they could not cross
                        them. He almost saw those children of hers, the cut of their pinafores and
                        sailor clothes, the bend of their blond and pink necks; and that nice young
                        husband, blond of course, tall of course, with vague, regular features, a
                        little dull perhaps, but awfully good. It was so obvious, so right. At the
                        same time it seemed rather tame; and Marion, he didn't know why, while
                        perceiving its extreme rightness and delightfulness, couldn't help wincing a
                        little bit at the prospect—
                    Lady Tal must have been engaged simultaneously in some similar contemplation, for she suddenly
                        turned round, and said:
                    “But after all, anything else might perhaps be just as boring as all this.
                        And fancy having given up that money all for nothing; one would feel such a
                        fool. On the whole, my one interest in life is evidently destined to be
                            Christina, and the solution of all my doubts will be the
                        appearance of the ‘New George Eliot of fashionable life’; don't you think
                        that sounds like the heading in one of your American papers, the Buffalo
                            Independent, or Milwaukee Republican?”
                    Marion gave a little mental start.
                    “Just so, just so,” he answered hurriedly: “I think it would be a fatal
                        thing—a very fatal thing for you to—well—to do anything rash, my dear Lady
                        Tal. After all, we must remember that there is such a thing as habit; a
                        woman accustomed to the life you lead, although I don't deny it may
                        sometimes seem dull, would be committing a mistake, in my opinion a great
                        mistake, in depriving herself, for however excellent reasons, of her
                        fortune. Life is dull, but, on the whole, the life we happen to live is
                        usually the one which suits us best. My own life, for instance, strikes me
                        at moments, I must confess, as a trifle dull. Yet I should be most unwise to
                        change it, most unwise. I think you are
                        quite right in supposing that novel-writing, if you persevere in it, will
                        afford you a—very—well—a—considerable interest in life.”
                    Lady Tal yawned under her parasol.
                    
                            “
                            '
                        Don't you think it's time for us to go back to the rest of our
                        rabble?” she asked. “It must be quite three-quarters of an hour since we
                        finished lunch, so I suppose it's time for tea, or food of some sort. Have
                        you ever reflected, Mr. Marion, how little there would be in picnics, and in
                        life in general, if one couldn't eat a fresh meal every three-quarters of an
                        hour?”
                
                
                
                    IX.
                    FEW things, of the many contradictory things of this world, are more
                        mysterious than the occasional certainty of sceptical men. Marion was one of
                        the most sceptical of sceptical novelists; the instinct that nothing really
                        depended upon its supposed or official cause, that nothing ever produced its
                        supposed or official effect, that all things were always infinitely more
                        important or unimportant than represented, that nothing is much use to
                        anything, and the world a mystery and a muddle; this instinct, so natural to
                        the psychologist, regularly honeycombed his existence, making it into a mere
                        shifting sand, quite unfit to carry the human weight. Yet at this particular
                        moment, Marion firmly believed that if only Lady Atalanta could be turned
                        into a tolerable novelist, the whole problem of Lady Atalanta's existence
                        would be satisfactorily solved, if only she could be taught construction,
                        style, punctuation, and a few other items; if only one could get into her
                        head the difference between a well-written thing, and an ill-written
                            thing, then, considering her undoubted
                        talent—for Marion's opinion of Lady Tal's talent had somehow increased with
                        a bound. Why he should think Christina a more remarkable
                        performance now that he had been tinkering at it for six weeks, it is
                        difficult to perceive. He seemed certainly to see much more in it. Through
                        that extraordinary difficulty of expression, he now felt the shape of a
                        personality, a personality contradictory, enigmatical, not sure of itself,
                        groping, as it were, to the light. Christina was evidently the
                        real Lady Tal, struggling through that overlaying of habits and prejudices
                        which constituted the false one.
                    So, Christina could not be given too much care; and certainly no
                        novel was ever given more, both by its author and by its critic. There was
                        not a chapter, and scarcely a paragraph, which had not been dissected by
                        Marion and re-written by Lady Tal; the critical insight of the one being
                        outdone only by the scribbling energy of the other. And now, it would soon
                        be finished. There was only that piece about Christina's reconciliation with
                        her sister-in-law to get into shape. Somehow or other the particular piece
                        seemed intolerably difficult to do; the more Lady Tal worked at it, the
                        worse it grew; the more Marion expounded
                        his views on the subject, the less did she seem able to grasp them.
                    They were seated on each side of the big deal table, which, for the better
                        development of Christina, Lady Tal had installed in her
                        drawing-room, and which at this moment presented a lamentable confusion of
                        foolscap, of mutilated pages, of slips for gumming on, of gum-pots, and
                        scissors. The scissors, however, were at present hidden from view, and Lady
                        Tal, stooping over the litter, was busily engaged looking for them.
                    “Confound those beastly old scissors!” she exclaimed, shaking a heap of MS.
                        with considerable violence.
                    Marion, on his side, gave a feeble stir to the mass of paper, and said,
                        rather sadly: “Are you sure you left them on this table?”
                    He felt that something was going wrong. Lady Tal had been unusually restive
                        about the alterations he wanted her to make.
                    “You are slanging those poor scissors because you are out of patience with
                        things in general, Lady Tal.”
                    She raised her head, and leaning both her long, well-shaped hands on the
                        table, looked full at Marion:
                    “Not with things in general, but with things in particular. With Christina, in the
                        first place; and then with myself; and then with you, Mr. Marion.”
                    “With me?” answered Marion, forcing out a smile of pseudo-surprise. He had
                        felt all along that she was irritated with him this morning.
                    “With you”—went on the lady, continuing to rummage for the scissors—“with
                        you, because I don't think you've been quite fair. It isn't fair to put it
                        into an unfortunate creature's head that she is an incipient George Eliot,
                        when you know that if she were to slave till doomsday, she couldn't produce
                        a novel fit for the Family Herald. It's very ungrateful of me
                        to complain, but you see it is rather hard lines upon me. You can do all
                        this sort of thing as easy as winking, and you imagine that everyone else
                        must. You put all your own ideas into poor Christina, and you
                        just expect me to be able to carry them out, and when I make a hideous hash,
                        you're not satisfied. You think of that novel just as if it were you writing
                        it—you know you do. Well, then, when a woman discovers at last that she
                        can't make the beastly thing any better; that she's been made to hope too
                        much, and that too much is asked of her, you understand it's rather
                        irritating. I am sick of re-writing that thing, sick of every creature in
                        it.”
                    
                    And Lady Tal gave an angry toss to the sheets of manuscript with the long
                        pair of dressmaker's scissors, which she had finally unburied. Marion felt a
                        little pang. The pang of a clever man who discovers himself to be
                        perpetrating a stupidity. He frowned that little frown of the tight
                        boots.
                    Quite true. He saw, all of a sudden, that he really had been over-estimating
                        Lady Tal's literary powers. It appeared to him monstrous. The thought made
                        him redden. To what unjustifiable lengths had his interest in the novel—the
                        novel in the abstract, anybody's novel; and (he confessed to himself) the
                        interest in one novel in particular, his own, the one in which Lady Tal
                        should figure—led him away! Perceiving himself violently to be in the wrong,
                        he proceeded to assume the manner, as is the case with most of us under
                        similar circumstances (perhaps from a natural instinct of balancing matters)
                        of a person conscious of being in the right.
                    “I think,” he said, dryly, “that you have rather overdone this novel, Lady
                        Tal—worked at it too much, talked of it too much too, sickened yourself with
                        it.”
                    “—And sickened others,” put in Lady Atalanta gloomily.
                    
                    “No, no, no—not others—only yourself, my dear young lady,” said Marion
                        paternally, in a way which clearly meant that she had expressed the complete
                        truth, being a rude woman, but that he, being a polite man, could never
                        admit it. As a matter of fact, Marion was not in the least sick of
                            Christina, quite the reverse.
                    “You see,” he went on, playing with the elastic band of one of the packets of
                        MS., “you can't be expected to know these things. But no professed
                        novelist—no one of any experience—no one, allow me to say so, except a young
                        lady, could possibly have taken such an overdose of novel-writing as you
                        have. Why, you have done in six weeks what ought to have taken six months!
                        The result, naturally, is that you have lost all sense of proportion and
                        quality; you really can't see your novel any longer, that's why you feel
                        depressed about it.”
                    Lady Tal was not at all mollified.
                    “That wasn't a reason for making me believe I was going to be George Eliot
                        and Ouida rolled into one, with the best qualities of Goethe and Dean Swift
                        into the bargain,” she exclaimed.
                    Marion frowned, but this time internally. He really had encouraged Lady Tal
                        quite unjustifiably. He doubted, suddenly,
                        whether she would ever get a publisher; therefore he smiled, and remarked
                        gently:
                    “Well, but—in matters of belief, there are two parties, Lady Tal. Don't you
                        think you may be partly responsible for this—this little
                        misapprehension?”
                    Lady Tal did not answer. The insolence of the Ossian was roused. She merely
                        looked at Marion from head to foot; and the look was ineffably scornful. It
                        seemed to say: “This is what comes of a woman like me associating with
                        Americans and novelists.”
                    “I've not lost patience,” she said after a moment; “don't think that. When I
                        make up my mind to a thing I just do it. So I shall finish
                            Christina, and print her, and publish her, and dedicate her
                        to you. Only, catch me ever writing another novel again!—and”—she added,
                        smiling with her closed teeth as she extended a somewhat stiff hand to
                        Marion—“catch you reading another novel of mine again either, now that
                        you've made all the necessary studies of me for your
                        novel!”
                    Marion smiled politely. But he ran downstairs, and through the narrow little
                        paved lane to the ferry at San Vio with a bent head.
                    
                    He had been a fool, a fool, he repeated to himself. Not, as he had thought
                        before, by exposing Lady Tal to disappointment and humiliation, but by
                        exposing himself.
                    Yes, he understood it all. He understood it when, scarcely out of Lady Tal's
                        presence, he caught himself, in the garden, looking up at her windows, half
                        expecting to see her, to hear some rather rough joke thrown at him as a
                        greeting, just to show she was sorry— He understood it still better, when,
                        every time the waiter knocked in the course of the day, he experienced a
                        faint expectation that it might be a note from Lady Tal, a line to say: “I
                        was as cross as two sticks, this morning, wasn't I?” or merely: “don't
                        forget to come to-morrow.”
                    He understood. He and the novel, both chucked aside impatiently by this
                        selfish, capricious, imperious young aristocrat: the two things identified,
                        and both now rejected as unworthy of taking up more of her august attention!
                        Marion felt the insult to the novel—her novel—almost more than to himself.
                        After all, how could Lady Tal see the difference between him and the various
                        mashers of her acquaintance, perceive that he was the salt of the earth? She
                        had not wherewithal to perceive it. But that she should not perceive the dignity of her own work, how
                        infinitely finer that novel was than herself, how it represented all her own
                        best possibilities; that she should be ungrateful for the sensitiveness with
                        which he had discovered its merit, her merits, in the midst of
                        that confusion of illiterate fashionable rubbish—
                    And when that evening, having his coffee at St. Mark's, he saw Lady Tal's
                        stately figure, her white dress, amongst the promenaders in the moonlight, a
                        rabble of young men and women at her heels, it struck him suddenly that
                        something was over. He thought that, if Lady Tal came to London next spring,
                        he would not call upon her unless sent for; and he was sure she would not
                        send for him, for as to Christina, Christina would
                        never get as far as the proof-sheets; and unless Christina
                        re-appeared on the surface, he also would remain at the bottom.
                    Marion got up from his table, and leaving the brightly illuminated square and
                        the crowd of summer-like promenaders, he went out on to the Riva, and walked
                        slowly towards the arsenal. The contrast was striking. Out here it looked
                        already like winter. There were no chairs in front of the cafés, there were
                        scarcely any gondola-lights at the mooring places. The passers-by went along
                        quickly, the end of their cloak over their
                        shoulder. And from the water, which swished against the marble landings,
                        came a rough, rainy wind. It was dark, and there were unseen puddles along
                        the pavement.
                    This was the result of abandoning, for however little, one's principles. He
                        had broken through his convictions by accepting to read a young lady's MS.
                        novel. It did not seem a very serious mistake. But through that chink, what
                        disorderly powers had now entered his well-arranged existence!
                    What the deuce did he want with the friendship of a Lady Tal? He had long
                        made up his mind to permit himself only such friendship as could not
                        possibly involve any feeling, as could not distress or ruffle him by such
                        incidents as illness, death, fickleness, ingratitude. The philosophy of
                        happiness, of that right balance of activities necessary for the
                        dispassionate student of mankind, consisted in never having anything that
                        one could miss, in never wanting anything. Had he not long ago made up his
                        mind to live contemplative only of external types, if not on a column like
                        Simon Stylites, at least in its meaner modern equivalent, a top flat at
                        Westminster?
                    Marion felt depressed, ashamed of his depression, enraged at his shame; and generally intolerably
                        mortified at feeling anything at all, and still more, in consequence, at
                        feeling all this much.
                    As he wandered up and down one of the stretches of the Riva, the boisterous
                        wind making masts and sails creak, and his cigar-smoke fly wildly about, he
                        began, however, to take a little comfort. All this, after all, was so much
                        experience; and experience was necessary for the comprehension of mankind.
                        It was preferable, as a rule, to use up other people's experience; to look
                        down, from that top flat at Westminster, upon grief and worry and rage
                            in corpore vili, at a good five
                        storeys below one. But, on reflection, it was doubtless necessary
                        occasionally to get impressions a little nearer; the very recognition of
                        feeling in others presupposed a certain minimum of emotional experience in
                        oneself.
                    Marion had a sense of humour, a sense of dignity, and a corresponding
                        aversion to being ridiculous. He disliked extremely having played the part
                        of the middle-aged fool. But if ever he should require, for a future novel,
                        a middle-aged fool, why, there he would be, ready to hand. And really,
                        unless he had thus miserably broken through his rules of life, thus
                        contemptibly taken an interest in a young lady six- foot high, the daughter of a bankrupt earl, with
                        an inexpressive face and a sentimental novel, he would never, never have got
                        to fathom, as he now fathomed, the character of the intelligent woman of the
                        world, with aspirations ending in frivolity, and a heart entirely rusted
                        over by insolence.
                    Ah, he did understand Lady Tal. He had gone up to his hotel; and
                        shut his window with a bang, receiving a spout of rain in his face, as he
                        made that reflection. Really, Lady Tal might be made into something
                        first-rate.
                    He threw himself into an arm-chair and opened a volume of the correspondence
                        of Flaubert.
                
                
                
                    X.
                    “I AM glad to have made an end of Christina,” remarked
                        Lady Tal, when they were on Miss Vanderwerf's balcony together.
                            Christina had been finished, cleaned up, folded, wrapped in
                        brown paper, stringed, sealing-waxed and addressed to a publisher, a week
                        almost ago. During the days separating this great event from this evening,
                        the last of Lady Atalanta's stay in Venice, the two novelists had met but
                        little. Lady Tal had had farewell visits to pay, farewell dinners and
                        lunches to eat. So had Jervase Marion; for, two days after Lady Tal's return
                        to her apartment near the Holy Apostles at Rome, he would be setting out for
                        that dear, tidy, solitary flat at Westminster.
                    “I am glad to have made an end of Christina,” remarked Lady Tal,
                        “it had got to bore me fearfully.”
                    Marion winced. He disliked this young woman's ingratitude and brutality. It
                        was ill-bred and stupid; and of all things in the world, the novelist from
                        Alabama detested ill-breeding and stupidity most. He was angry with himself for minding these
                        qualities in Lady Tal. Had he not long made up his mind that she possessed
                        them, must possess them?
                    There was a pause. The canal beneath them was quite dark, and the room behind
                        quite light; it was November, and people no longer feared lamps on account
                        of mosquitoes, any more than they went posting about in gondolas after
                        illuminated singing boats. The company, also, was entirely collected within
                        doors; the damp sea-wind, the necessity for shawls and overcoats, took away
                        the Romeo and Juliet character from those little gothic balconies, formerly
                        crowded with light frocks and white waistcoats.
                    The temperature precluded all notions of flirtation; one must intend
                        business, or be bent upon catching cold, to venture outside.
                    “How changed it all is!” exclaimed Lady Tal, “and what a beastly place Venice
                        does become in autumn. If I were a benevolent despot, I should forbid any
                        rooms being let or hotels being opened beyond the 15th of October. I wonder
                        why I didn't get my bags together and go earlier! I might have gone to
                        Florence or Perugia for a fortnight, instead of banging straight back to
                        Rome. Oh, of course, it was all along of Christina! What were
                        we talking about? Ah, yes, about how
                        changed it all was. Do you remember the first evening we met here, a
                        splendid moonlight, and ever so hot? When was it? Two months ago? Surely
                        more. It seems years ago. I don't mean merely on account of the change of
                        temperature, and leaving off cotton frocks and that: I mean we seem to have
                        been friends so long. You will write to me sometimes, won't you, and send
                        any of your friends to me? Palazzo Malaspini, Santi Apostoli (just opposite
                        the French Embassy, you know), after five nearly always, in winter. I
                        wonder,” continued Lady Tal, musingly, leaning her tweed elbow on the damp
                        balustrade, “whether we shall ever write another novel together; what do you
                        think, Mr. Marion?”
                    Something seemed suddenly to give away inside Marion's soul. He saw, all at
                        once, those big rooms, which he had often heard described (a woman of her
                        means ought to be ashamed of such furniture, the Roumanian Princess had
                        remarked), near the Holy Apostles at Rome: the red damask walls, the big
                        palms and azaleas, with pieces of embroidery wrapped round the pots, the
                        pastel of Lady Tal by Lenbach, the five hundred photographs dotted about,
                        and fifteen hundred silver objects of indeterminable shape and art, and five dozen little screens all
                        covered with odd bits of brocade—of course there was all that: and the door
                        curtain raised, and the butler bowing in, and behind him the whitish
                        yellowish curl, and pinky grey face of Clarence. And then he saw, but not
                        more distinctly, his writing-table at Westminster, the etchings round his
                        walls, the collection of empty easy-chairs, each easier and emptier, with
                        its book-holding or leg-stretching apparatus, than its neighbor. He became
                        aware of being old, remarkably old, of a paternal position towards this
                        woman of thirty. He spoke in a paternal tone—
                    “No!” he answered, “I think not. I shall be too busy. I must write another
                        novel myself.”
                    “What will your novel be about?” asked Lady Tal, slowly, watching her
                        cigarette cut down through the darkness into the waters below. “Tell
                        me.”
                    “My novel? What will my novel be about?” repeated Marion, absently. His mind
                        was full of those red rooms at Rome, with the screens, and the palms, and
                        odious tow-coloured head of Clarence. “Why, my novel will be the story of an
                        old artist, a sculptor—I don't mean a man of the Renaissance, I mean old in
                        years, elderly, going on fifty—who was silly enough to imagine it was all
                        love of art which made him take a great
                        deal of interest in a certain young lady and her paintings—”
                    “You said he was a sculptor just now,” remarked Lady Tal calmly.
                    “Of course I meant in her statues—modelling—what d'you call it—”
                    “And then?” asked Lady Tal after a pause, looking down into the canal. “What
                        happened?”
                    “What happened?” repeated Marion, and he heard his own voice with surprise,
                        wondering how it could be his own, or how he could know it for his, so
                        suddenly had it grown quick and husky and unsteady—“What happened? Why—that
                        he made an awful old fool of himself. That's all.”
                    “That's all!” mused Lady Tal. “Doesn't it seem rather lame? You don't seem to
                        have got sufficient dénouement, do you?
                        Why shouldn't we write that novel together? I'm sure I could help you to
                        something more conclusive than that. Let me see. Well, suppose the lady were
                        to answer: ‘I am as poor as a rat, and I fear I'm rather expensive. But I
                            can make my dresses myself if only I get one of those
                        wicker dolls, I call them Theresa, you know; and I might learn
                        to do my hair myself; and then I'm going to be a great painter—no, sculptor,
                        I mean— and make pots of money; so suppose
                        we get married.’ Don't you think Mr. Marion, that would be more
                            modern than your dénouement? You would have to find out what that painter—no,
                        sculptor, I beg your pardon—would answer. Consider that both he and the lady
                        are rather lonely, bored, and getting into the sere and yellow— We ought to
                        write that novel together, because I've given you the ending—and also
                        because I really can't manage another all by myself, now that I've got
                        accustomed to having my semicolons put in for me—”
                    As Lady Atalanta spoke these words, a sudden downpour of rain drove her and
                        Marion back into the drawing-room.
                
            
            
            
                A WORLDLY WOMAN.
                
                A WORLDLY WOMAN.
                
                    I.
                    “BUT why should you mind who buys your pots, so long as your pots
                        are beautiful?” asked the girl.
                    “Because as things exist at present, art can minister only to the luxury of
                        the rich, idle classes. The people, the people that works and requires to
                        play, and requires something to tell it of happier things, gets no share in
                        art. The people is too poor to possess beautiful things, and too brutish to
                        care for them: the only amusement it can afford is getting drunk. And one
                        wearies and sickens of merely adding one's grain of sand to the inequality
                        and injustice of existing social conditions—don't you see, Miss
                        Flodden?”
                    Leonard Greenleaf stopped short, his breathlessness mingling with the
                        annoyance at having let himself be carried away by his ideas, and producing
                        a vague sense of warm helplessness.
                    
                    “Of course,” he went on, taking up a big jar of yellow Hispano-Moorish lustre
                        ware, and mechanically dusting it with the feather brush, “it's absurd to
                        talk like that about such things as pots, and it's absurd to talk like that
                        to you.”
                    And raising his head he gave a furtive little glare at the girl, where she
                        stood in a golden beam of dust and sunlight, which slanted through his
                        workshop.
                    Miss Valentine Flodden—for such was the name on the family card which she had
                        sent in together with that of Messrs. Boyce—made rather a delightful picture
                        in that yellow halo: the green light from under the plane trees filtering in
                        through the door behind her, and gleams of crimson and glints of gold
                        flickering, in the brown gloom wherever an enamel plate or pot was struck by
                        a sunbeam, winnowed by the blind which flapped in the draught. Greenleaf
                        knew by some dim, forgotten experience or unaccountable guess-work, that she
                        was what was called, in the detestable jargon of a certain set, a pretty
                        woman. He also recognised in her clothes—they were would-be manly, far more
                        simple and practical than those of the girls he knew, yet telling of a life
                        anything but practical and simple—that she belonged to that same set of
                        persons; a fact apparent also in her movements, her words and accent, nay in the something indefinable in
                        her manner which seemed to take things for granted. But he didn't care for
                        her being beautiful. His feeling was solely of vague irritation at having
                        let himself speak—he had quite unnecessarily told her he intended giving up
                        the pottery next year—about the things which were his very life, to a
                        stranger; a stranger who had come with a card to ask advice about her own
                        amateur work, and from out of a world which was foreign and odious to him,
                        the world of idleness and luxury. Also, he experienced slight shame at a
                        certain silly, half-romantic pleasure at what was in reality the unconscious
                        intrusion of a fashionable eccentric. This girl, who had been sent on from
                        Boyce & Co.'s for information which they could not give, must
                        evidently have thought she was coming to another shop, otherwise she would
                        never have come all alone; she evidently took him for a shopman, otherwise
                        she would not have staid so long nor spoken so freely. It was much better
                        she should continue to regard him as a shopman; and indeed was it not his
                        pride to have shaken off all class distinctions, and to have become a
                        workingman like any other?
                    It was this thought which made him alter his tone and ask with grave politeness, “Is there any
                        further point upon which I can have the pleasure of giving you any
                        information?”
                    Miss Flodden did not answer this question. She stood contemplating the old
                        warped oaken floor, on whose dust she was drawing a honeysuckle pattern with
                        the end of her parasol.
                    “Why did you say that you ought not to speak about such things to—people, Mr.
                        Greenleaf?” she asked. “Of course, one's a Philistine, and in outer
                        darkness, but still—”
                    She had raised her eyes full upon him. They were a strange light blue,
                        darkening as she spoke, under very level brows, and she had an odd way of
                        opening them out at one. Like that, with her delicate complexion, and a
                        little vagueness about the mouth, she looked childish, appealing, and rather
                        pathetic.
                    “All these things are very interesting,” she added quickly; “at least they
                        must be if one understands anything about them.”
                    Greenleaf was sorry. He didn't know exactly why; but he felt vaguely as if he
                        had been brutal. He had made her shut up—for he recognised that the second
                        part of her speech was the reaction against his own; and that was brutal. He
                        ought not to have let the conversation
                        depart from the technicalities of pottery, as he had done by saying he
                        intended giving it up, and then bursting into that socialistic rhapsody. It
                        wasn't fair upon her.
                    By this time the reaction had completely set in with her. Her face had a
                        totally different expression, indifferent, bored, a little insolent—the
                        expression of her society and order.
                    “It's been very good of you,” she said, looking vaguely round the room, with
                        the shimmer of green leaves and the glint of enamel in its brown dustiness,
                        “to tell me so many things, and to have given up so much of your time. I
                        didn't know, you know, from Messrs. Boyce, that I was breaking in upon you
                        at your work. I suppose they were so kind because of my father having a
                        collection—they thought that I knew more about pottery than I do.”
                    She stretched out her hand stiffly. Leonard Greenleaf did not know whether he
                        ought to take it, because he guessed that she did not know whether she ought
                        to offer it him. Also he felt awkward, and sorry to have shut her up.
                    “I should—be very happy to tell you anything more that I could, Miss
                        Flodden,” he said; “
                            be-
                            besides
                         sides, the owners of Yetholme
                        must be privileged people with us potters.”
                    “If—if ever you be passing anywhere near Eaton Square—that's where I live
                        with my aunt,” she said, “won't you come in and have a cup of tea? Number 5;
                        the number is on the card. But,” she added suddenly, with a little laugh,
                        which was that social stiffening once more, “perhaps you never do pass
                        anywhere near tea-time; or you pass and don't come in. It would be a great
                        waste of your time.”
                    What had made her stiffen suddenly like that was a faint smile which had come
                        into Greenleaf's face at the beginning of her invitation. He had understood,
                        or thought he understood, that his visitor had grasped the fact of his being
                        a sort of gentleman after all, and that she thought it necessary to express
                        her recognition of the difference between him and any other member of the
                        firm of Boyce & Co. by asking him to call.
                    “Of course you are a great deal too busy,” she repeated. “Perhaps some day
                        you will let me come to your studio again—some day next year—good-bye.”
                    “Shall I call you a hansom?” he asked, wondering whether he had been
                        rude.
                    
                    “Thank you; I think I'll go by the Underground. You cross the big square, and
                        then along the side of the British Museum, don't you? I made a note of the
                        way as I came. Or else I'll get a 'bus in Tottenham Court Road.”
                    She spoke the words 'bus and Underground, he
                        thought, with a little emphasis. She was determined to have her fill of
                        eccentricity, now that she had gone in for pottery, and for running about
                        all alone to strange places, and scoring out everything save her own name on
                        the family card. At least so Greenleaf said to himself, as he watched the
                        tall, slight young figure disappearing down the black Bloomsbury street, and
                        among the green leaves and black stems of the Bloomsbury square. An unlikely
                        apparition, oddly feminine in its spruce tailoring, in that sleepy part of
                        the world, whence fashion had retreated long, long ago, with the last
                        painted coach which had rumbled through the iron gates, and the last link
                        which had been extinguished in the iron extinguishers of the rusty
                        areas.
                
                
                
                    II.
                    GREENLEAF had a great disbelief in his own intuitions; perhaps
                        because he vibrated unusually to the touch of other folks' nature, and that
                        the number and variety of his impressions sometimes made it difficult to
                        come to a cut-and-dry conclusion. There was in him also a sensitiveness on
                        the subject of his own beliefs and ideals which made him instinctively avoid
                        contact with other folk, and avoid even knowing much about them. He often
                        felt that in a way he was very unfit to be a Socialist and an agitator; for
                        besides the absurd attraction that everything beautiful, distinguished,
                        exotic, exercised upon him, and a corresponding repugnance to the coarse and
                        sordid sights of the world, he knew himself to look at people in an
                        excessively subjective way, never seeking spontaneously to understand what
                        they themselves were trying to do and say, but analysing them merely from
                        the series of impressions which he received. Just as his consciousness of
                        being a born æsthete and aristocrat had
                        pushed him into social questions and democratic views; so also his extreme
                        conscientiousness occasionally made him attempt, rather abortively, to
                        behave to others as he might wish to be behaved to himself, his imagination
                        being taxed to the utmost by the inquiry as to what behaviour would be
                        altruistic and just under the circumstances.
                    This preamble is necessary to explain various inconsistencies in our hero's
                        conduct, and more particularly at this moment, the inconsistency of suddenly
                        veering round in his suppositions about Miss Valentine Flodden. In his
                        monotonous life of artistic work and social study—in those series of quiet
                        days, as like one another as the rows of black Bloomsbury houses with their
                        garlanded door-lintels and wornout doorsteps, as the spear-heads of the
                        railings, the spikes of blossom on the horse-chestnuts, and the little lions
                        on the chain curbs round the British Museum—the weekly firing of his pottery
                        kiln at Boyce's Works near Wandsworth, the weekly lecture to workingmen down
                        at Whitechapel, the weekly reception in the sooty rooms of Faber, the
                        Socialist poet and critic who had married the Socialist painter—all these
                        were the landmarks of Greenleaf's 
                            exist-
                            existence
                         ence, and landmarks of the
                        magnitude of martello towers along a sea-shore. So that anything at all
                        unexpected became, in his life of subversive thoughts and methodical
                        activity, an incident and an adventure.
                    Thus it was that the visit of Miss Flodden, although he repeatedly noted its
                        utter unimportance to himself and everyone else, became the theme of much
                        idle meditation in the intervals of his work and study. He felt it as
                        extraordinarily strange. And feeling it in this way, his conscientious good
                        sense caused him to analyse it as sometimes almost unusually
                        commonplace.
                    It was in consequence of repeatedly informing himself that after all nothing
                        could be more natural than this visit, that he took the step which brought
                        him once more into contact with the eccentricity of the adventure. For he
                        repeated so often to himself how natural it was that a girl with a taste for
                        art should care for pottery (particularly as her father owned the
                        world-famous Yetholme collection), and caring for pottery should go for
                        information to Messrs. Boyce's the decorators, and being referred by Boyce's
                        to himself should come on, at once, and quite alone, to the studio of his
                        unknown self; he identified Miss Flodden
                        so completely with any one of the mature maidens who carried their peacock
                        blue and sage green and amber beads, and interest in economics, archæology
                        and so forth freely through his world, that he decided to give Miss Flodden
                        the assistance which he would have proffered to one of the independent and
                        studious spinsters of Bloomsbury and West Kensington. Accordingly he took a
                        sheet of paper with “Boyce & Co., Decorators,” stamped at the head
                        of it, and wrote a note directed to Miss Valentine Flodden, Eaton Square,
                        saying that as she would doubtless be interested in examining the Rhodian
                        and Damascene pottery of the British Museum, which she had told him she knew
                        very imperfectly, he ventured to enclose an introduction to the Head of the
                        Department, whom she would find a most learned and amiable old gentleman;
                        the fact of her connection with the famous Yetholme collection would, for
                        the rest, be introduction enough in itself.
                    After posting the note and the enclosure, Leonard Greenleaf reflected, with
                        some wonder and a little humiliation, that he had chosen a sheet of Boyce's
                        business paper to write to Miss Flodden; while he had selected a sheet with
                        the name of his old Oxford college for writing to the Head of the
                            Department. But it was not childish
                        contradictoriness after all; at least so he told himself. For old Colonel
                        Hancock Dunstan (one never dropped the Colonel even in one's thoughts) had a
                        weakness in favour of polite society and against new-fangled democracy, and
                        liked Greenleaf exactly because he had better shaped hands and a better cut
                        coat than other men who haunted the Museum. And as to Miss Flodden, why, it
                        seemed more appropriate to keep things on the level of pottery and
                        decoration, and therefore to have Boyce & Co. well to the fore.
                    Greenleaf had made up his mind that Fate would never again bring him face to
                        face with Miss Flodden, and that he would certainly take no steps towards
                        altering Fate's intentions. It was for this very reason that he had
                        introduced the lady to his old friend of the Museum: for it is singular how
                        introducing someone to somebody else keeps up the sense of the someone's
                        presence; and how, occasionally, one insists upon such vicarious company.
                        But, as stated already, he never dreamed, at least he thought he never
                        dreamed, to see his eccentric young visitor again.
                    Such being the case, it might seem odd, had not his experience of human
                        feelings destroyed all perception of oddity, that Greenleaf experienced no
                            surprise when, obeying a peremptory
                        scrawl from the former terror of Pashas and the present terror of scholars,
                        he found himself one afternoon in Colonel Dunstan's solemn bachelor
                        drawing-room, and in the presence once more of Miss Valentine Flodden.
                    Colonel Hancock Dunstan, who in his distant days had gone to Mecca disguised
                        as a pilgrim, dug up Persian temples, slain uncivil Moslems with his own
                        hand, and altogether constituted a minor Eastern question in his one
                        boisterous self, had now settled down (a Government post having been created
                        expressly to keep him quiet) into a life divided between furious
                        archæological disputes and faithful service of the fair sex. He was at this
                        moment promenading his shrunken person—which somehow straightened out into
                        military vigour in the presence of young ladies—round a large table spread
                        with innumerable cups of tea, plates of strawberries and dishes of bonbons.
                        Of this he partook only in the spirit, offering it all, together with the
                        service of a severe housekeeper and a black, barefooted Moor, for the
                        consumption of his fair guests. The other guest, indeed, a gaunt and classic
                        female archæologist, habited in peacock plush, was fair only in mind; and
                        Colonel Dunstan, devoted as he was to all womankind, was wont to neglect
                        such intellectual grace when in the presence of more obvious external beauty. Hence, at this moment,
                        the poor archæological lady, accustomed to a shower of invitations to lunch,
                        tea, dinner, and play-tickets from the gallant though terrible old man, was
                        abandoned to the care of the housekeeper until she could be passed over to
                        that of Greenleaf. And Colonel Dunstan, with his shrunken tissues and
                        shrunken waistcoat regaining a martial ampleness, as the withered rose of
                        Dr. Heidegger's experiment regained colour and perfume in the basin of
                        Elixir of Youth, was wandering slowly about (for he never sat still) heaping
                        food and conversation on Miss Flodden. He was informing her, among anecdotes
                        of dead celebrities, reminiscences of Oriental warfare, principles of
                        Persian colour arrangement, and panegyrics of virtuous incipient actresses,
                        that Greenleaf was a capital fellow, although he would doubtless have been
                        improved by military training; a scholar, and the son of a great scholar
                        (Thomas Greenleaf's great edition of the “Mahabarata,” which she should read
                        some day when he, Colonel Dunstan, taught her Sanskrit), and that, for the
                        rest, philanthropy, socialism, and the lower classes were a great mistake,
                        of which the Ancient Persians would have made very short work indeed. To
                        Greenleaf also he conveyed sundry
                        information, not troubling to make it quite intelligible, for Colonel
                        Dunstan considered that young men ought to be taught their place, which
                        place was nowhere. So from various mutterings and ejaculations addressed to
                        Miss Flodden, such as, “Ah, your great aunt, the duchess—what a woman she
                        was! she had the shoulders of the Venus of Milo—I always told her she ought
                        to ride out in the desert to excavate Palmyra with me;” and “that dear
                        little cousin of yours—why didn't she let me teach her Arabic?” it became
                        gradually apparent to Greenleaf that the old gentleman, who seemed as versed
                        in Burke's Peerage and Baronetage as in cuneiform inscriptions, had known
                        many generations of ladies of the house of Flodden. Nay, most unexpected of
                        all, that the young lady introduced by Greenleaf had been a familiar object
                        to the learned and hot-tempered Colonel ever since she had left the nursery.
                        Greenleaf experienced a slight pang on this discovery: he had forgotten, in
                        his own unworldliness, that worldly people like Colonel Dunstan and Miss
                        Flodden probably moved in the same society.
                    “And your sister, how is she?” went on the old gentleman; “is she as bright
                        as ever, now she is 
                            mar-
                            married
                         ried, and has she got that
                        little air mutin still? It's months since I've seen her; why didn't you
                        bring her with you, my dear? And does she also take an interest
                        in Rhodian pots, the dear, beautiful creature?”
                    Miss Flodden's face darkened as he slowly spun out his questions.
                    “I don't know what my sister is doing. I don't live with her any longer,
                        Colonel Dunstan; and she is always busy rushing about with people; and I'm
                        busy with pots and practising the fiddle; I've turned hermit since quite a
                        long time.”
                    “Well, well, practising the fiddle isn't a bad thing; Orpheus with his lute,
                        you know. But you'd much better let me teach you Greek, my dear, and come to
                        Asia Minor next winter with me. Lady Betty's coming, and we'll see what we
                        can dig up among those sots of Turks. You can get capital tents at that
                        fellow's—what's his name—in Piccadilly. And how are your people? I saw your
                        brother Herbert the other day at a sale. He told me your father was
                        determined not to let us have your collection, more's the pity! And what's
                        become of that nice young fellow, Hermann Struwë, who used to be at your
                        house? He hasn't got a wife yet, eh?”
                    
                    Miss Flodden took no notice of these questions. She passed them over in
                        disdainful silence, Greenleaf thought, till she suddenly said coldly:
                    “I should think Mr. Struwë will have no more difficulty in finding a wife
                        than in hiring a shooting, or buying a sham antique.”
                    She was a very beautiful woman, Greenleaf said to himself. She was very tall
                        (Greenleaf wondered whether the women of that lot, of the idlers, were
                        always a head taller than those of his acquaintance), and slender almost to
                        thinness, with a rigid, undeveloped sort of grace which contrasted with the
                        extreme composure—that sort of taking things for granted—of her manner. Old
                        Mr. Dunstan had just alluded to her mother having been a Welshwoman; and
                        Greenleaf thought he saw very plainly the Celt in this superficially
                        Saxon-looking girl. That sharp perfection of feature—features almost
                        over-much chiselled and finished in every minutest detail—that excessive
                        mobility of mouth and eyes, did not belong to the usual kind of English
                        pretty women. She was so much of a Celt, despite her Northumbrian name, that
                        the pale-brown of her hair—hair crisp and close round her ears—gave him
                        almost the impression of a wig; underneath it must really be jet black.
                    
                    Notwithstanding a slight weariness at Colonel Dunstan's social reminiscences
                        and questions, she seemed pleased and rather excited at finding herself in
                        the sanctuary of his learning. While quietly taking care of the old
                        gentleman, and much concerned lest he should stumble over chairs and
                        footstools in his polite haverings, she let her eyes ramble over the expanse
                        of books which covered the walls, evidently impressed by all that must be in
                        them. And from the timid though pertinacious fashion in which she questioned
                        him, it was clear that she thought him an oracle, although an oracle rather
                        difficult to keep to the point.
                    “And now,” she finally said, with a little suppressed desperation, “won't you
                        show me some of the Rhodian ware, Colonel Dunstan? It would be so awfully
                        good of you.”
                    Colonel Dunstan suddenly unwrinkled himself with considerable importance. He
                        had forgotten the Rhodian ware, and rather resented its existence. Why,
                        bless you! He didn't possess such things as pots: and as to
                        going to the Museum, it was the most cold-taking place in the world. He
                        would show her his books some day, and the casts of the cuneiform
                        inscriptions. She must come to tea again soon with him. Did she know Miss Tilly Tandem, who had just
                        been engaged by Irving? He should like them to meet. That was her
                        photograph.
                    “But,” said Miss Flodden—Val Flodden it appeared she was called—“mayn't
                        I—couldn't I—be allowed to see those Rhodian pots also?” She was dreadfully
                        crestfallen, and had a little disappointed eagerness, like a child.
                    “Of course you can,” Colonel Dunstan answered, with infinite disdain.
                            “I don't think anything of Rhodian ware, you know—mere
                        debased copy of the old Persian. Those Greeks of the islands were a poor
                        lot, then as now. Believe me, those Greeks have always been a set of
                        confounded liars and their account of Salamis will be set right some day.
                        But if you want to see it, why of course you can. Greenleaf, take Miss Val
                        Flodden to see the Rhodian ware some day soon; do you hear, Greenleaf,
                        eh?”
                    “Yes, sir.” Greenleaf had always said sir to Colonel Dunstan, like a little
                        boy, or a subordinate. It made up for a kind of contempt with which the
                        learned, but worldly and hot-tempered old gentleman very unreasonably
                        inspired him. Greenleaf was full of prejudices, like all very gentle and
                        apostolic persons.
                    
                    “There's Greenleaf—go with him some morning,” said Colonel Dunstan, regaining
                        his temper; “but, bless me! Why haven't you had any more strawberries, Miss
                        Val?”
                
                
                
                    III.
                    THE discovery that he had introduced two people who had already been
                        acquainted for years, depressed Greenleaf with something more than the mere
                        sense of slight comicality. Indeed, Greenleaf, like many apostolic persons,
                        was deficient in the sense of the comic, and destitute of all fear of social
                        solecisms. As he waited under the portico of the Museum, the pigeons
                        fluttering from the black temple frieze on to the sooty steps, and the rusty
                        students pressing through the swinging glass doors, he felt a vague
                        dissatisfaction—the sort of faint crossness common in children, and of which
                        no contact with the world, the contact with its grating or planing powers,
                        had cured this dreamer; but such crossness leaves in the candid mind a doubt
                        of possible vicariousness, of being caused by something not its ostensible
                        reason, or being caused by the quite undefinable. When at last, from out of
                        the blue haze and gauzy blackness of the
                        Bloomsbury summer, there emerged an object of interest, and the slender
                        recognised figure detached itself from the crowd of unreal other creatures,
                        on foot, in cabs, and behind barrows, he was aware of a certain flat and
                        prosaic quality in things since that tea-party at Colonel Dunstan's. And he
                        was very angry with himself, and consequently with everything else, when it
                        struck him suddenly that perhaps he was annoyed at the little eccentric
                        adventure—the adventure of the lady dropped from the clouds and never seen
                        again—turning into a humdrum acquaintance, which might even linger on, with
                        a girl about whose family he now knew everything, who, on her side, was now
                        certain that he was a gentleman, and who did really and seriously intend to
                        find out all about pots.
                    They walked quickly upstairs, exchanging very few words, save on the subject
                        of umbrellas and umbrella tickets; and when they had arrived in the pottery
                        room, they became wonderfully business-like. Miss Flodden was business-like
                        simply because she was extraordinarily interested in the matter in hand; and
                        Greenleaf was business-like because he was ashamed of having perhaps thought
                        about Miss Flodden apart from pottery, and therefore most anxious, for his
                            own moral dignity, to look at her and
                        pottery as indissolubly connected.
                    As the narrator of this small history is unhappily an ignoramus on the
                        subject of pottery, prudence forbids all attempt to repeat the questions of
                        Miss Flodden and the answers of Greenleaf on the subject of clay, colours,
                        fixing glaze and similar mysteries. These were duly discussed for some time
                        while the patient assistant unlocked case after case, and let them handle
                        the great Hispano-Moorish dishes, heraldic creatures spreading wings among
                        their arabesques of yellow brown goldiness; the rotund vases and ewers where
                        Roman consuls and Jewish maidens and Greek gods were crowded together,
                        yellow and green and brown, on the deep sea-blue of Castel Durante and
                        Gubbio majolica; the fanciful scalloped blue upon blue nymphs and satyrs of
                        seventeenth century Savona, which looked as if the very dishes and plates
                        had wished to wear furbelows and perukes; and the precious pieces, cracked
                        and broken, of Brusa tiles and Rhodian and Damascene platters, with the
                        gorgeous crimson tulips—opening vistas of Oriental bean-fields—and fantastic
                        green and blue fritillaries standing almost in relief on the thick white
                        glaze.
                    “I suppose it's being brought up among the 
                            Yeth-
                            Yetholme
                         olme collection that makes you
                        know so much about pottery?” remarked Greenleaf, in considerable surprise:
                        “you haven't been to this part of the Museum before?”
                    Miss Flodden raised her pale blue luminous eyes.
                    “Do you know, I've never been to the Museum since I was a tiny girl, at
                        least, except once, when my married sister conducted a party of New York
                        friends. I thought we were going to see stuffed birds, and I was so
                        surprised to see all those beautiful Greek things—I had seen statues once
                        when we went to Rome—I wanted so much to look at them a little, but my
                        friends thought they weren't in good repair, and wanted to have tea and go
                        to the park, so they scooted me round among the Egyptian things and the
                        reading rooms and out by the door. Yes, the little I know I have learned by
                        playing with our things at home. Some day you must see them, Mr.
                        Greenleaf.”
                    Greenleaf did not answer for a moment. Good heavens! here was a young woman
                        of twenty-four or twenty-five who had spent part of every year of her life
                        in London, and had been only once to the British Museum, and then had
                        expected to see stuffed birds! And the
                        girl apparently an instinctive artist, extraordinarily quick and just in her
                        appreciations.
                    Then there were other things to do, besides opening galleries on Sundays and
                        promenading East-end workmen in company with young men from Toynbee Hall!
                        And Greenleaf's heart withered—as one's mouth withers at the contact of
                        strong green tea or caper sauce—with indignation at all the waste of
                        intellectual power and intellectual riches implied in this hideous present
                        misarrangement of all things. Was it possible that the so-called upper
                        classes, or at least some members thereof, were in one way as much the
                        victims of injustice and barbarism as the lower classes, off whose labour
                        they basely subsisted?
                    The thought came over him as his eyes met Miss Flodden's face—that delicately
                        chiselled, mobile young face which was suddenly contracted with a smile of
                        cynical, yet resigned bitterness. He made that reflection once more, when
                        with the wand-bearing custodian imperturbably occupying the only seat in the
                        place, they leaned upon the glass case, and she asked him, and he told her,
                        about the various currents in art history—the form element of ancient
                        Greece, the colour element of the Orientals, the patterns of Persian ware,
                        the outline figures on Greek and Etruscan
                        vases—things which he imagined every child to know, and about which, as
                        about Greeks, Orientals, and Etruscans, and Latin and geography and most
                        matters, this girl seemed completely ignorant.
                    “My word,” she exclaimed, and that little piece of slang grated horribly on
                        Greenleaf's nerves; “how very interesting things are when one knows
                        something about them! Do you suppose all things would be equally interesting
                        if one knew about them? Or would it only be every now and then, just as with
                        other matters, balls, and picnics, and so forth? Or does one get interested
                        whenever one does anything as hard as one can, like hard riding, or rowing,
                        or playing tennis properly? Some books seem so awfully interesting, you
                        know; but there are such a lot of others that one would just throw into the
                        fire if they didn't belong to Mudie. But somehow a thread seems always to be
                        wanting. It's like trying to play a game without knowing the rules. How have
                        you got to know all these things, Mr. Greenleaf? I mean all the connections
                        between things; and could anybody get the connecting links if they tried, or
                        must one have a special vocation?”
                    Greenleaf was embarrassed how to answer. He
                        really could not realise the extraordinary emptiness in this young woman's
                        mind; and at the same time he felt strangely touched and indignant, as he
                        did sometimes when giving some little street Arab a good thing which it had
                        never eaten before, and did not clearly know how to begin eating.
                    “Have you—have you—never read at all methodically?” he asked. He really
                        meant, “Have you never received any education?”
                    Miss Flodden reflected for a moment. “No. Somehow one never thought of
                        reading as a methodical thing, as a business, you know. Dancing and hunting
                        and playing tennis and seeing people, all that's a business, because one has
                        to do it. At least one has to do it as long as one hadn't turned into a
                        savage; everyone else has to do it. Of course, there's the fiddle; I've
                        practised that rather methodically, but it was because I liked the sound of
                        the thing so much, and I once had a little German—my brother's German
                        crammer for diplomacy—who taught me. And then one knew that, unless one got
                        up at five in the morning and did it regularly, it wouldn't be done at all.
                        But reading is different. One just picks up a book before dinner, or while
                        being dressed. And the books are usually such rot.”
                    
                    It was getting late, and Greenleaf conducted Miss Flodden back to her
                        parasol, where it was waiting among the vast and shabby umbrellas of the
                        studious, very incongruous in its semi-masculine, yet rather futile
                        smartness, at the door of the reading-room.
                    “It is all very beautiful,” remarked Miss Flodden, as they descended the
                        Museum steps, with the pigeons fluttering all round in the dim, smoky air,
                        nodding her head pensively.
                    “What?” asked Greenleaf. He had an almost conventual hatred of noise and
                        bustle, which seemed to him, perhaps because he had elected to work among
                        them, the utter profanation of life; and to his æsthetic soul, the fact that
                        many thousands of people lived among smoke and smuts, and never saw a clear
                        stream, a dainty meadow of grass and daisies, or a sky just washed into
                        blueness by a shower, was one of the chief reasons for condemning modern
                        industrial civilisation.
                    “Why, all that—the pale blue mist with the black houses quite soft, like
                        black flakes against it, and the green of the trees against the black walls,
                        and the moving crowd.” Then, as if suddenly taking courage to say something
                        rather dreadful, she said: “Tell me about
                        Colonel Dunstan. Is he really so learned, does he know such a lot of
                        things?”
                    Greenleaf laughed at the simplicity with which she asked this. She seemed to
                        have a difficulty in realising that anyone could know anything.
                    “Yes, he knows a great lot of things. He is one of the first Orientalists in
                        Europe, I believe—at least my father, who was an Oriental scholar himself,
                        used to say so; and he is a great archæologist, besides his knowledge of
                        Eastern things, and of course he knows more about Oriental art, and in fact
                        all art, than almost anyone.”
                    “Does he know,” hesitated Miss Flodden, “what you were telling me about the
                        different currents of ancient art, Persian and Greek and Etruscan, and the
                        way in which artists lived then—all that you were telling me just now?”
                    Greenleaf laughed. “Good gracious, yes; I know nothing compared with him.
                        Why, most of the little I know I learned at his lectures. Shall I hail that
                        hansom for you, Miss Flodden?”
                    They were crossing Bedford Square. The birds were singing in the plane trees,
                        and from the open windows of a solemn Georgian house, with its courses of
                        white stone, and its classic door frieze, came the notes of a sonata of Mozart. All was wonderfully
                        peaceful under the hazy summer sky.
                    “No—not yet. Tell me, then: since Colonel Dunstan knows so many interesting
                        things, why in the world does he live like that?”
                    “Like what, Miss Flodden?”
                    “Why, as if—well, as if he knew nothing at all. Why does he go every
                        afternoon a round of calls on silly women, gossiping about their dresses,
                        and listening to all—well—the horrid, because it often is
                        horrid, nonsense and filth people talk? I used to meet him about everywhere,
                        when I used still to go into the world. He often came to my sister's—I
                        thought he was just an old—well, an old creature like the rest of them,
                        collecting gossip to retail it next door. Since he really knows all about
                        beautiful things, why doesn't he stick to them—why does he go about with
                        stupid folk—he must know lots of clever ones?”
                    “Because—because Colonel Dunstan is a man of the world,” answered Greenleaf
                        bitterly; “because he cares about art, and history, and philosophy, but he
                        also cares for pretty women, and pretty frocks, and good manners, and white
                        hands.”
                    “But—why shouldn't one care—doesn't everyone care—for—well, good
                        manners?”
                    
                    He had spoken with such violence that Miss Flodden had turned round. Her
                        question died away as she looked into his face. It had hitherto struck her
                        merely by its great kindness, and a sort of gentle candour which was rare.
                        Now, the clean-shaven features and longish hair gave her the impression of a
                        fanatic priest, at least what she imagined such to be.
                    “In this world, as it now exists,” continued Greenleaf in an undertone, which
                        was almost a hiss, “things are so divided that a man must choose between
                        people who are pretty and pleasant and well-mannered; and people who are
                        ugly and brutish and hateful, because the first are idle and unjust, and the
                        second overworked and oppressed. Nowadays, more even than when Christ taught
                        it, a man cannot serve both God and Mammon; and God, at present, at least
                        God's servants, live among the ignorant, and dirty, and suffering. Shan't I
                        stop that hansom for you, Miss Flodden?”
                    “Yes,” she answered with a catch in her breath, as if overcome by surprise,
                        almost as by an attack.
                    “Good-bye,” he said, closing the flaps of the hansom.
                    Miss Flodden's hand mechanically dropped on to one of them, and her head,
                        with the little black bonnet all points
                        and bows of lace, was looking straight into space, as one overcome by great
                        astonishment.
                    Greenleaf sickened with shame at his vehemence.
                    “You will let me show you the Etruscan things some day?” he cried, as the
                        hansom rolled off.
                    Ah, could he never, never learn to restrain himself? What business had he to
                        talk of such things to such a woman. To let the holy of holies become, most
                        likely, a subject of mere idle curiosity and idle talk?
                
                
                
                    IV.
                    AS Greenleaf looked up from the article on the “Rochdale Pioneers
                        and Co-operation” and glanced out of the window at the smoke-veiled,
                        soot-engrained Northern towns, and the bleak-green North country hillsides
                        which flashed past the express, he did not realise at all clearly that he
                        was going to see once more Miss Val Flodden, and see her in the unexpected
                        relations of hostess and guest.
                    She had indeed, during their last ramble through the British Museum, said
                        something vague about his coming to Yetholme if ever he came North; but he
                        had given the invitation no weight and had forgotten it completely. His
                        journey was due to a circumstance more important in his eyes than the visit
                        of a young lady to his studio, and would be crowned by an event far more
                        satisfactory than the meeting with a stray acquaintance.
                    For Sir Percy Flodden had at last decided to sell the famous Yetholme
                        collection of majolica and Palissy ware;
                        and the South Kensington authorities had selected Leonard Greenleaf, potter
                        and writer on pottery, to verify the catalogue and conclude the purchase. It
                        was one of Greenleaf's socialist maxims that no important works of art
                        should be hidden from public enjoyment in the houses of private collectors;
                        an Act of Parliament, in his opinion, should force all owners to sell to the
                        nation, supposing that arguments in favour of true citizenship and true love
                        of art had failed to make them bestow their property gratis. Greenleaf had
                        agitated during several years to induce the public to make the first bid for
                        the Yetholme collection; difficulties of all kinds had stood in the way, and
                        the owner himself had become restive in the negotiations; but now, at last,
                        this immortal earthenware had been saved from further private collections
                        and secured for the enjoyment of everybody.
                    This being the case, it was not wonderful if Miss Flodden was thrown into the
                        shade by her family collection; and if Greenleaf had gradually got to think
                        very little about her of late—I say of late, because until the Yetholme sale
                        had diverted his mind from theory to practice, Miss Flodden had played a
                        certain part in Greenleaf's thoughts. Her 
                        sudden intrusion upon the monotony of his existence had made him ponder once
                        more upon his undergraduate's dream of reclaiming the upper as well as the
                        lower classes; a dream which had gradually vanished before practical contact
                        with the pressing want of the poor. He had forgotten, during the last five
                        or six years, that the leisured classes existed otherwise than as oppressors
                        of the overworked ones. But now there had returned to the surface his
                        constitutional craving for harmony, his horror of class warfare, a horror
                        all the greater that in this very gentle soul there was a possibility of
                        intense hatred. Why should not the whole of society work out harmoniously a
                        new and better social order? After all, he and his chosen friends belonged
                        to the privileged class, and only the privileged class could give the
                        generous initiative required to counteract the selfish claiming of rights
                        from below. Mankind was not wicked and perverse; and the injustice,
                        wantonness, and cruelty of the rich were, doubtless, a result of their
                        ignorance: they must be shown that they could do without so many things and
                        that other folk were wanting those things so very much. And, half
                        consciously, the image of Val Flodden rose up to concentrate and typify the
                        ideas she had evoked. She was the living
                        example of the ignorance of all higher right and wrong, of all the larger
                        facts of existence, in which the so-called upper classes lived on no better
                        than heathen blacks.
                    In these reflections Greenleaf had never claimed for Miss Flodden any
                        individual superiority: to do so would have been to diminish her value as a
                        type and an illustration. She had become, in his thoughts, the natural woman
                        as produced, or rather as destroyed, by the evil constitution of idle
                        society. She appeared, indeed, to have a personal charm, but this was
                        doubtless a class peculiarity which his inexperience perceived as an
                        individual one. It was the sole business of idle folk, Greenleaf said to
                        himself, to make themselves charming, and they doubtless carried this
                        quality as high as blacksmiths do strength of arm, and sempstresses
                        nimbleness of finger: for the occasional examples of idle folk without any
                        charm at all quickly faded from Greenleaf's logical memory. Also, he forgot
                        for the moment, that many women, neither ignorant nor idle, the three Miss
                        Carpenters for instance, who lived in a servantless flat in Holborn and
                        worked in the East End, had as much charm, though not quite the same; and
                        that there were tricks of manner and speech, affectations of school-boy
                        slang, yokel ways, about Miss Flodden
                        herself, which affected his sensitive nerves as ungraceful. But, be this as
                        it may, the acquaintance with Miss Flodden had set his thoughts on the
                        disadvantages of the upper classes, and he found it convenient to use Miss
                        Flodden as an illustration thereof.
                    Besides, every now and then, Greenleaf had felt, in those long talks at the
                        Museum, a curious pang of pity for her. In Greenleaf's nature, more
                        thoughtful than logical, the dominating forces were a kind of transcendent
                        æstheticism, and an extraordinary, also transcendent, compassion—compassion
                        which, coming upon him in veritable stabs, went to his head and soon passed
                        the boundaries of individual pain and wrong. This man, who aspired towards
                        the future and really hankered painfully after the past, was like some
                        mediæval monk all quivering at the sufferings of a far-distant, impersonal
                        Godhead, for the sake of whose wrongs he could even hate fiercely, and for
                        the sake of whose more than individual sufferings he could feel, every now
                        and then, overwhelming pity for some small, ill-treated bird, or beast, or
                        man. That this girl—intelligent and good—had been brought up not merely in
                        utter indifference to real evil (tempered only by a vague fear of a black
                        man who carried you to hell and a much
                        blacker man who turned you out of society) but in ignorance of every one of
                        the nobler and more beautiful activities of life; this perception of moral
                        and intellectual starvation, veiled his mind with tears and made him
                        spiritually choke, like the sight of a supperless ragged child, or of a dog
                        that had lost its master.
                    Such impressions had been common enough in their two or three meetings. They
                        had met several times in the Museum, and once at Messrs. Boyce's works, the
                        utter unworldliness of Greenleaf's mind preventing his asking himself, even
                        once, whether such proceedings did not display unusual recklessness on the
                        part of a girl belonging to Miss Flodden's set; so much that he did not even
                        take heed of Miss Flodden's occasional remarks showing that this liberty,
                        this familiarity with a man and a stranger, were possible only because she
                        had deliberately turned her back on her former companions. Indifferent to
                        personal matters, he had not even understood very plainly (although he had a
                        pleasant, vague sense of something similar) that unfamiliarity with the
                        class and type to which he belonged had given the girl a sense of absolute
                        safety which allowed her to go about and discuss everything with this man
                        from a different sphere, as she might have
                        done with another woman. This knowledge was vague and scarce conscious,
                        taking the form rather of indignation with Miss Flodden's world and pity for
                        Miss Flodden's self, whenever, incidentally, she said things which revealed
                        the habit of an opposite state of things, the habit of a woman's liberty of
                        action, speech and feeling being cramped by disbelief in men's purity and
                        honour, or rather by knowledge of their thinly varnished baseness.
                    Thus it had come about during that dim and delicate London June that the
                        young lady from Eaton Square had become a familiar figure in the mind, if
                        not in the life, of the Socialist potter of Church Street, Bloomsbury. There
                        was, of course, a certain exotic strain in the matter; and as they rambled
                        among the solemn sitting Pharaohs, the Roman Emperors and headless Greek
                        demigods, and the rows of glass cases in the cool, empty Museum, Greenleaf
                        occasionally experienced, while discussing various forms of art and
                        describing dead civilisations, a little shock of surprise on realising the
                        nature of his companion, on catching every now and then an intonation and an
                        expression which told of ball-rooms and shooting-houses, on perceiving
                        suddenly, silhouetted against the red
                        wall, or reflected in a glass case, the slender, dapper figure in its plain,
                        tight clothes; the tight, straight-featured head beneath its close little
                        bonnet. But this sense of the unusual and the exotic was subdued by the
                        sense of the real, the actually present, just as, in some foreign or Eastern
                        town, our disbelief in the possibility of it all is oddly moulded into a
                        sort of familiarity by the knowledge that we are our ourselves, and
                        ourselves are on the spot.
                    It was different now; as his train jogged slowly along the banks of the
                        Tweed, between the bare, green hills and the leafy little ravines of
                        Northumberland. A couple of months' separation had gradually reduced Miss
                        Flodden to an unfamiliar, and almost an abstract being. She was the subject
                        no longer of impressions, but merely of reflections; and of reflections
                        which had grown daily more general, as the perfume of individuality faded
                        away. Greenleaf lived so much more in his thoughts than in his life that
                        creatures very speedily got to represent nothing but problems to him. At
                        this moment his main interest in life was to secure the Yetholme collection
                        of majolica and Palissy work; the fact that he was going, in a few minutes,
                        to meet Miss Flodden was not more important than the fact that he would have
                        to get his 
                            port-
                            portmanteau
                         manteau out of the van. And as
                        to Miss Flodden, she represented to him, in a rather rubbed-out way, the
                        problem of upper class want of education and moral earnestness.
                    It seemed to him also, as he shook hands with Miss Flodden, in her cart at
                        Yetholme station, and took his place beside her in the vehicle, that not
                        only all his own feelings about Miss Flodden, but Miss Flodden herself had
                        changed. She had grown so much more like everybody else, he thought, or he
                        had got to see her so much more in her reality. There was nothing exotic
                        about her now, wrapped in a big, fuzzy cloak, a big cap drawn over her head,
                        concealing the close, light-brown curls, and making her face so very much
                        less keen in feature. He wondered why he had seen so much of the Celt in
                        her, and such a far-fetched nervous fineness. She seemed also, in her almost
                        monosyllabic conversation, mainly preoccupied with his portmanteau, the
                        hours of his train, the names of the villages and hills they passed, and
                        similar commonplace matters; whereas, in London he had noted the eager
                        insistence with which she had immediately set the conversation and firmly
                        kept it on intellectual and artistic problems.
                    The cart rolled away by high-lying fields of pale green barley and oats shivering in the cold
                        breeze, between the stunted hedges, whence an occasional wind-warped
                        thorn-tree rose black against the pale yellow afternoon sky, with every now
                        and then a bunch of blue cranesbill, or a little fluttering group of
                        poppies, taking the importance of bushes and trees in this high, bleak,
                        Northern country. Great savage dogs, with chests and pointed ears like the
                        antique Cerberus, came barking out of the black stone cottages; and over the
                        fields, from the tree-tops just visible in the river valley below, circled
                        innumerable rooks, loudly cawing. The road made a sudden dip, and they were
                        on a level with the wide, shingly bed of the Tweed, scattered sheep grazing
                        along the banks. Then a black belfry appeared among black ash trees; a row
                        of black cottages bordered the road with their hollyhocks and asters; and
                        the cart rolled in between rows of rook-peopled trees, and stopped at last
                        before a long, black stone house, sunk, as in some parts of Scotland, into a
                        kind of trench. There was a frightful alarum of dogs of all kinds, rushing
                        up from all directions. But Miss Flodden led Greenleaf into the house and
                        through various passages, without any human being appearing, save a boy, to
                        whom she threw the reins at the door. At last, in a big, dark drawing-room, a child was discovered
                        helping herself to milk and bread and jam at a solitary table.
                    “They're all out,” she said, taking no notice of Greenleaf, although scanning
                        him with the critical eyes of six or seven. “Cut me a scone, Val, and put
                        butter on it, but not too much.”
                    “This is a step-sister of mine,” explained Miss Flodden, laconically, nodding
                        in the child's direction, as she threw aside her cloak, drew off her gloves,
                        and began pouring out tea. “I say, leave that scone alone until I can cut it
                        for you. It's rather hard lines on one for the family to have its tea and
                        leave us only the cold dregs.”
                    She looked listless and calm and bored. Greenleaf wondered how he could ever
                        have romanced about this handsome, commonplace young woman. Then he began to
                        speculate as to where the famous collection was kept.
                
                
                
                    V.
                    “IT'S very unfair of me, of course,” Miss Flodden remarked next
                        morning, as she handed down plate after plate, jar after jar, to Greenleaf,
                        seated, the catalogue before him and the pen in his hand, at a long deal
                        table—“it's very unfair, and it isn't at all business, but I used to think I
                        should like to see you again; and now, on account of these pots, I dislike
                        you.”
                    Greenleaf looked up in astonishment. It was as if the veil of sullenness,
                        preventing his recognition of Miss Flodden ever since his arrival, had
                        suddenly been torn asunder by a burst of passion. The girl was standing by
                        the glass case, dusting a Limoges platter with a feather brush, her mannish
                        coat and short skirt covered with dust. She spoke in an undertone, and her
                        eyes were looking down upon the platter; but it struck him at once that she
                        was a Celt once more, and that the Celtic waywardness and emotion were
                        bursting out the more irresistibly for that long repression due to the
                        Spartan 
                            undemonstra-
                            undemonstrativeness
                         tiveness of smart society. He
                        noticed also a trait he had forgotten, and which had seemed to be, long ago
                        at the Museum, a sort of mark of temperament, telling of inherited ferocity
                        in this well-bred young lady; two of her little white teeth, instead of
                        being square pearls, like their companions, were pointed and sharp, like
                        those of a wild animal. And as she raised her eyes, their light, whitish
                        blue, flashed angrily.
                    “Excuse my being so rude, Mr. Greenleaf,” she added very coldly, “you have
                        been so good, showing and explaining a lot of things to me, that it's only
                        fair you should know that, on account of the pots, I have—well, got to
                        dislike you. You see,” she went on, turning her back to him, “they were my
                        toys. They were the only people, except the trees and the river, one had to
                        talk to sometimes.”
                    Greenleaf had noticed at dinner last night, and again this morning at lunch,
                        that Miss Flodden seemed to have very little in common with her family, and,
                        indeed, scarcely any communication at all.
                    Sir Percy Flodden, an old gentleman with a beautiful white beard, and
                        beautiful soft manners, but a deficiency in further characteristics, had
                        found leisure, in the intervals of organising Primrose meetings, making
                        speeches at Conservative dinners, writing
                        letters to the Times about breeds of cattle, and hunting and
                        fishing a great deal, to get married a second time, and to produce a large
                        number of younger fishermen and huntresses, future Primrose Leaguers and
                        writers to the Times. The second wife being dead, and sundry
                        aunts installed in her place, the younger generation of Floddens, after
                        gradually emerging from the nursery, ran wild in brooks and streams, stables
                        and haylofts, until the boys were packed off to civilisation and Eton,
                        pending further civilisation and Sandhurst; and the girls were initiated
                        into their proper form of civilisation by being taken to a drawing-room and
                        then hustled into further female evolution by an energetic and tactful
                        married sister. The elder girls were now at home, preparing clothes for
                        various balls and packing trunks for various visits; and the elder boys had
                        come back on holidays, with fishing-rods, coin collections, the first three
                        books of Euclid, and the last new thing in slang; as to the younger
                        half-brothers and sisters, they were still in the phase of the hayloft and
                        stable, emerging only to partake of gigantic breakfasts and teas.
                    Among all these good-natured and well-mannered, but somewhat dull creatures,
                        Val Flodden moved in an atmosphere of her
                        own, somewhat of a stranger, considerably of a puzzle, and regarded with the
                        mixed awe and suspicion due to her having been recently an admittedly pretty
                        woman, and now showing signs of becoming an undoubtedly eccentric one.
                        Besides, there was the fact that Val Flodden was partially a Celt, and that
                        her father and brothers were most emphatically Saxons.
                    All this it has been necessary to explain that the reader might understand
                        that Greenleaf might have understood Miss Flodden's passionate clinging to
                        her sole companions at Yetholme, the old crockery of her grandfather's
                        collection.
                    But although Greenleaf did actually take in a portion of the situation, he
                        was mainly impressed by the want of public spirit exhibited by the young
                        lady; so inevitably do we expect other folk to possess even our most
                        eccentric standards, and to rule their feelings and actions by notions of
                        which they have probably never even heard.
                    Miss Flodden had broken through all rules in manifesting her feelings about
                        the pots; Greenleaf never dreamed of taking advantage of her false move, but
                        with his usual simplicity, encouraged by a plain-spokenness, which never
                        struck him as otherwise than natural, he
                        answered very gravely: “Of course I understand how fond you must be of these
                        beautiful things, and how much it must have been to you—it would be to
                        anyone who cared for art, even if not specially interested like you in
                        pottery—to have them constantly before you. But you ought to remember that
                        you are parting with them for the advantage of others.”
                    Miss Flodden flushed a little. It was probably from surprise and shame at
                        this man's stupidity. She must have felt as if she herself had alluded to
                        the necessity of selling these heirlooms, as if she herself had done the
                        incredible thing of pointing out the pecuniary advantage. Then, apparently,
                        she reflected that if this man was so obtuse, he could not help himself; but
                        that he was doubtless honest in his intentions. For she added coldly, and
                        hiding her contemptuous face from him with a jar held at arms' length:
                    “Of course I know that it's for the benefit of my brothers and sisters. I
                        don't grudge them the money, heaven knows, and when one's broke, one's
                        broke. Only it's sad to think what sort of things—what stupid amusements and
                        useless necessaries these lovely things will be exchanged for, merely
                        because the world is so idiotically constituted. You see, the 
                            pos-
                            possession
                         session of these pots ought to
                        give everyone more pleasure than the possession of an additional horse, or
                        an extra frock.”
                    Greenleaf was as much taken aback at her misconception of his meaning as she
                        had been at her supposed understanding of it.
                    “Good gracious, Miss Flodden, I didn't mean the advantage of your brothers
                        and sisters. But surely you ought to reflect that these pots passing from a
                        private house in Northumberland to the South Kensington Mlusuem, will mean
                        that hundreds of people will be afforded pleasure, instead of only one or
                        two—one, namely yourself, by your own account. Besides, do you really think
                        that any private individual has a moral right to keep for himself any object
                        capable of giving a noble kind of pleasure to his fellows, merely because
                        the present state of society allows him to possess more money than his
                        neighbours, and to lock up things as his property? Surely art belongs to all
                        who can enjoy it!”
                    There was something fault-finding in Greenleaf's tone, owing to the fact that
                        he could not realise such ideas, so very familiar to himself, not being
                        equally familiar to everyone else.
                    Miss Flodden set down the jar she was dusting, keeping her wrist balanced on its edge, and
                        looked at Greenleaf with surprise in her blue eyes, which concentrated, and
                        seemed to grow darker and deeper by the concentration.
                    “Really,” she asked incredulously, “are you speaking seriously? But then—what
                        would become of luxury and so forth?”
                    “The active would enjoy it as well as the idle—or rather, there would be no
                        longer either active or idle; everyone would work and enjoy equally, and
                        equally fairly and rationally.”
                    “Then,” went on Miss Flodden slowly, the sequence of thoughts bursting with
                        difficulty on to her mind, “no one would have things, except for real
                        enjoyment and as a result of fairly earning them? People would all have
                        books and beautiful trees and fields to look at, and pictures and music; but
                        no diamonds, or stepping horses, or frocks from Worth—the things one has
                        because other folk have them.”
                    Greenleaf smiled: she seemed to him, talking of these things which “one” had
                        because “others” had them, things so futile, so foreign to his mind,
                        extraordinarily like a child talking of the snakes, whales, and ogres,
                        represented by tables and chairs, and hearthrugs.
                    
                    “Of course not.”
                    “At that rate,” went on the girl, “there would no longer be any need for
                        marrying and giving in marriage. One would live quite free; free to work at
                        what one liked, and look about without folks worrying one.”
                    Greenleaf did not follow her thought, for his own thoughts were too foreign
                        to the habits she was alluding to.
                    “I don't see,” he added simply, “why people shouldn't marry or be given in
                        marriage because every one worked and had leisure. Some mightn't, perhaps,
                        because some would always, perhaps, want to work too much, and because
                        things matter to me—I mean to some—more than other people. But I can't see
                        why others shouldn't marry and be given in marriage, Miss Flodden.”
                    A little contraction passed across the girl's face, and she answered in a
                        hurried, husky voice:
                    “No, no; that would be all over.”
                    And they fell again to the catalogue. It was a very hard day's work, that
                        first one, for the catalogue was in horrid confusion; and they really could
                        not have had time to talk much about other things, for they went on with
                        merely a brief space for lunch, and
                        Greenleaf was sent for a walk with one of the boys at tea time, while Miss
                        Flodden unwillingly entertained some neighbours. Then at dinner the
                        conversation, in which she took no part, rolled mainly upon local pedigrees,
                        crops, how many fish the boys had caught, in what houses friends were
                        staying, whom sundry young ladies of the neighbourhood were likely to marry,
                        and how many bags had been made at the various shoots. Still, despite these
                        irrelevant interests, Miss Flodden seemed to have understood why Greenleaf
                        had expected her to like the sale of the collection, and Greenleaf to have
                        understood why Miss Flodden should have been vexed at the collection being
                        sold. At least there was a sense of mutual comprehension and good-will, such
                        as the morning had scarcely promised. And when, after fretting a little over
                        more bags of game and more local pedigrees, with his host and the boys after
                        dinner, Greenleaf returned to find the ladies in various stages of
                        somnolence, over the drawing-room fire; he experienced an odd sense of the
                        naturalness of things when Miss Flodden asked whether he could play the
                        piano, and took her violin out of its case.
                    Miss Flodden did not play exactly well, for it appears that very few people
                        do; and she, of course, had had but little
                        opportunity of learning. Yet, in a way, she played the fiddle much better,
                        Greenleaf felt, than he himself, who was decidedly a proficient, could play
                        the piano. For there was in her playing the expression not merely of talent,
                        but of extraordinary, passionate, dogged determination to master the
                        instrument. It was as much this as the actual execution which gave the charm
                        to her performance, To Greenleaf the charm was immense. He nearly always
                        played, when he did play, with men; and he hated the way in which the fiddle
                        crushes the starched hideous shirt, the movement of bowing rucks the black
                        sleeve and hard white cuff too high above the red, masculine wrist; and
                        among the dreams of his life there had always been a very silly one, of a
                        younger sister—he always thought of her as called Emily—who would have
                        learned the violin, and who would have stood before him like this, bow in
                        hand, while he looked up from his piano. It seems odd, perhaps, that the
                        fair violinist should never have appeared to his mind as a possible wife;
                        but so it was. And so it was that this image, which had dawned upon his
                        school-boy fancy long before the delectableness of marriage could ever be
                        understood, and when his solitary little soul still smarted at his dull,
                            grown- up, companionless home—so it
                        was that the image of “Emily”—the imaginary sister with the violin had
                        gradually taken the place in his heart of that grave Miss Delia Carpenter,
                        the only woman whom he had ever loved, and who had told him she was in love
                        with another.
                    The family was beginning to disperse; the girls to wake up yawning from their
                        novels or their embroidery; the father to start suddenly from his slumber
                        over the Times; the boys, having satisfied themselves in the
                        newspapers about the number of brace of grouse, had sneaked off to prepare
                        flies for the next day's fishing; and still the duet went on, the image of
                        “Emily” gradually acquiring the blue eyes (its own had been brownish) and
                        clear-cut, nervous features (she had hitherto had an irregular style of
                        beauty) of Val Flodden.
                    “That's enough,” said Miss Flodden, putting her violin tenderly—she had the
                        same rather unwonted tenderness with some of the majolica—into its case, and
                        looking round at the sleepy faces of the family. “Jack, give Mr. Greenleaf
                        his candle. And,” she added, as they shook hands, “you'll tell me some more
                        about how it will be when everybody works and has leisure, won't you,
                        to-morrow?”
                    
                    That night Greenleaf saw in his dreams his father's rectory among the south
                        country pines, the garden and paddock, the big library and loft full of
                        books; and among it all there wandered about, rather dim in features, but
                        unhesitatingly recognised, that imaginary sister, the violinist Emily.
                
                
                
                    VI.
                    “TELL me more about the Miss Carpenters,” said Miss Flodden shyly,
                        keeping her eyes fixed on the rapidly flowing twist of water between the big
                        shingle, where every now and then came the spurt of a salmon's leap.
                    They were seated, after tea, and another hard day's cataloguing, under some
                        beech trees that overhung the Tweed. From the fields opposite—no longer
                        England, already Scotland—came the pant and whirr of a threshing-machine;
                        while from the woods issued the caw of innumerable rooks, blackening the
                        sky. A heron rose from among the reeds of the bank, and mounted, printing
                        the pale sky with his Japanese outline. There was incredible peacefulness,
                        not unmixed with austerity, in the gurgle of the water, the green of the
                        banks, the scent of damp earth.
                    Greenleaf, who was very reserved about his friends, so much that one friend
                        might almost have imagined him to possess no others, had somehow slid
                            into speaking of his little Bloomsbury
                        world to this girl, who was so foreign to it. It had come home to him how
                        utterly Miss Flodden had lived out of contact with all the various concerns
                        of life, and out of sight of the people who have such. Except pottery and
                        violin music, come into her existence by the merest accident, and remaining
                        there utterly isolated, she had no experience, save of the vanities of the
                        world. But what struck him most, and seemed to him even more piteous, was
                        her habit of regarding these vanities as matters not of amusement, but of
                        important business. To her, personally, it would seem, indeed, that frocks,
                        horses, diamonds, invitations to this house or that, and all the
                        complications of social standing, afforded little or no satisfaction. But
                        then she accepted the fact of being an eccentric, a creature not quite all
                        it should be; and she expected everyone else to be different, to be
                        seriously engaged in the pursuit of the things she, personally, and owing to
                        her eccentricity, did not want.
                    It was extraordinary how, while she expressed her own distaste for various
                        weaknesses and shortcomings, she defended those who gave way to them as
                        perfectly normal creatures. Greenleaf was horrified to hear her explain,
                        with marvelous perception of how and
                        wherefore, and without any blame, the manner in which women may gradually
                        allow men not their husbands to pay their dressmaker's bills, and gradually
                        to become masters of their purse and of themselves: the necessity of a new
                        frock at some race or ball, the desire to outshine another woman, to get
                        into royalty's notice, and the fear of incensing a husband already hard
                        up—all this seemed to Miss Flodden perfectly natural and incontrovertible;
                        and she pleaded for those who gave way under such pressure.
                    “Of course I wouldn't do it,” she said, twisting a long straw in her hands;
                        “it strikes me as bad form, don't you know; but then I'm peculiar, and there
                        are so many things in the world which other folk don't mind, and which I
                        can't bear. I don't like some of their talk, and I don't like their not
                        running quite straight. But then I seem to have been born with a skin less
                        than one ought to have.”
                    Greenleaf listened in silent horror. In the course of discussing how much the
                        world might be improved by some of his socialistic plans, this young lady of
                        four or five and twenty had very simply and quietly unveiled a state of
                        corruption, of which, in his tirades against wealth and luxury, he had had
                        but the vaguest idea. “You see,” Miss Flodden had remarked, “it's because one has to have so many things
                        which one's neighbours have, whether they give one much pleasure or not,
                        that a woman gets into such false positions, which make people, if things
                        get too obvious, treat her in a beastly, unjust way. But women have always
                        been told that they must have this and that, and go to such and
                        such a house, otherwise they'd not keep up in it all; and then they're
                        fallen upon afterwards. It's awfully unfair. Why, of course, if one hadn't
                        always been told that one must have frocks, and carriages, and
                            must go to Marlborough House, one wouldn't get married. Of
                        course it's different with me, because I'm queer, and I like making pots,
                        and am willing to know no one. But then that's all wrong, at least my
                        married sister is always saying so. And, of course, I'm not going to marry,
                        however much they bore me about it.”
                    “You speak as if women got married merely for the sake of living like their
                        neighbours,” remarked Greenleaf; “that's absurd.”
                    Miss Flodden, seated on a stone, looked up at him under his beech tree. Her
                        face bore a curious expression of incredulity dashed with contempt. Could he
                        be a Pharisee?
                    
                    “There may be exceptions,” she answered, “and perhaps you may know some. But
                        if a woman were secure of her living, and did not want things, why should
                        she get married?” It was as if she had said, Why should a Hindoo widow burn
                        herself? “There must be some inducement,” she added, looking into the water
                        and plucking at the grass, “to give oneself into the keeping of another
                        person.” Her face had that same contraction, as once when she had mentioned
                        the matter before.
                    “Good God,” thought Greenleaf, “into what ugly bits of life had this girl
                        been forced to look!” And he felt a great pity and indignation about things
                        in general.
                    Miss Flodden sent a stone skimming across the river, as if to dismiss the
                        subject, and then it was that she said rather hesitatingly:
                    “Tell me more about the Miss Carpenters.”
                    She had an odd, timid curiosity about Greenleaf's friends, about everyone who
                        did anything, as if she feared to intrude on them even in thought.
                    Greenleaf had spoken about them before and not unintentionally. These three
                        sisters, living in their flat off Holborn, doing all their housework
                        themselves, and yet finding time to work among the poor, to be cultivated and charming, were a stalking horse of
                        his, an example he liked to bring before this member of fast society.
                    He had taken his refusal by one of the sisters with a philosophy which had
                        astonished himself, for he certainly had thought that Delia was very dear to
                        him. She was dear in a way now. But he felt quite pleased at her marriage
                        with young Farquhar of the Museum, and he rather enjoyed talking about her.
                        He told Miss Flodden of Maggie Carpenter's work among the sweaters, and of
                        the readings of English literature she and Clara gave to the shop-girls; and
                        he was a little shocked, when he told her of the young woman from
                        Shoolbred's who had borrowed a volume of Webster, that Val Flodden had never
                        heard of that eminent dramatist, and thought he was the dictionary. He
                        described the little suppers they gave in their big kitchen, where the one
                        or two guests helped to lay the table and to wash up afterwards, previous to
                        going to the highest seats in the Albert Hall, or to some socialist lecture;
                        then the return on foot through the silent, black Bloomsbury streets. He
                        made it sound even more idyllic than it really was. Then he spoke of Delia
                        and the piano lessons she gave and the poems she wrote. He even repeated two of the poems out loud and felt that
                        they were very beautiful.
                    “They can never bore themselves,” remarked Miss Flodden, pensively.
                    “Bore themselves?” responded Greenleaf.
                    “Yes: bore themselves and feel they just must have something
                        different to think about, like birds beating against cage bars.” Then, after
                        a pause, she said vaguely and hesitatingly: “I wish there were a chance for
                        one to know the Miss Carpenters.”
                    Greenleaf brightened up. This was what he wished. “Of course you shall know
                        them, if you care, Miss Flodden, only—”
                    “Only—you mean that they would think me a bore and an intruder.”
                    “No,” answered Greenleaf, he scarcely knew why, “that's not what I meant. But
                        you must remember that you and they belong to different classes of
                        society.”
                    Miss Flodden's face contracted. “Ah,” she exclaimed angrily. “Why must you
                        throw that in my face? You have said that sort of thing several times
                        before. Why do you?”
                    Why, indeed? For Greenleaf could not desist, every now and then, from
                        bringing up that fact. It made the girl
                        quiver, but he could not help himself; it was an attempt to find out whether
                        she was really in earnest, which he occasionally doubted; and also it was a
                        natural reaction against certain cynical assumptions, certain takings for
                        granted on Miss Flodden's part that the vanity and corruption of her
                        miserable little clique permeated the whole of the world—of the world which
                        did not even know, in many instances, that there was such a thing as a smart
                        lot!
                    But now he was sorry.
                    “Indeed,” he said sorrowfully, “such a gulf between classes unfortunately
                        still exists. In our civilisation, where luxury and the money which buys it
                        go for so much, those who work must necessarily be separate from those who
                        play.”
                    “Heaven knows you have no right to abuse us for having money,” exclaimed Miss
                        Flodden, much hurt. “Why, if I don't get married, and I shan't, I shall
                        never have a penny to bless myself with.”
                    “It's a question of the lot one belongs to,” answered Greenleaf unkindly; but
                        added, rather remorsefully: “Would you like me to give you a letter for the
                        Miss Carpenters when next you go to town? I have,” he hesitated a little,
                        “talked a good deal about you with them.”
                    
                    “Really!” exclaimed Miss Flodden quickly. “That's awfully good of you—I mean
                        to give me a letter—only I fear it will bore them. I shall be going to town
                        for a week or two in October. May I call on them then, do you think?”
                    “Of course.” And Greenleaf, who was a business-like man, drew out his
                        pocket-book, full of little patterns for pots and notes for lectures, and
                        wrote on a clean page:
                    “Mem.: Letter for the Miss Carpenters for Miss Flodden.”
                    “I will write it to-night or to-morrow; you shall have it before I leave. By
                        the way, that train the day after to-morrow is at 6.20, is it not?”
                    “Yes,” answered Miss Flodden. “I wish you could stay longer.”
                    And they walked home.
                    As they wandered through the high-lying fields of green oats and yellow
                        barley, among whose long beards the low sun made golden dust, with the dark,
                        greenish Cheviots on one side, purple clouds hanging on their moor sides,
                        and the three cones of the Eildons rising, hills of fairy-land, faint upon
                        the golden sunset mist—as they wandered talking of various things, pottery,
                        philosophy, and socialism, Greenleaf felt stealing across his soul a peacefulness as unlike his
                        usual mood, as this northern afternoon, with soughing grain and twittering
                        of larks, was different from the grime and bustle of London. He knew, now,
                        that Miss Delia Carpenter's refusal had been best for him; his nature was
                        too thin to allow of his giving himself both to a wife and family, and to
                        the duties and studies which claimed him; he would have starved the
                        affections of the first while neglecting the second. His life must always be
                        a solitary one with his work. But into this rather cheerless solitude, there
                        seemed to be coming something, he could scarcely tell what. Greenleaf
                        believed in the possible friendship between a man and a woman; if it had not
                        existed often hitherto, that was the fault of our corrupt bringing up. But
                        it was possible and necessary; a thing different from, more perfect and more
                        useful, than any friendship between persons of the same sex. But more
                        different still, breezier, more robust and serene, than love even at its
                        best. And had he not always wished for that sister, that Emily who had never
                        existed? Of course he did not contemplate seeing very much of Miss Flodden;
                        still less did he admit to himself that this strange, reserved, yet
                        outspoken girl might be the friend he craved for. But he felt a curious satisfaction, despite his better reason,
                        which protested against everything abnormal, and which explained a great
                        deal by premature experience of the world's ugliness—he felt a satisfaction
                        at Miss Flodden's aversion to marriage. He could not have explained why, but
                        he knew in a positive manner that this girl never had been, and never would
                        be, in love; that this young woman of a frivolous and fast lot, was a sort
                        of female Hippolytus, but without a male Diana; and he held tight to the
                        knowledge as to a treasure.
                
                
                
                    VII.
                    THE next day, Greenleaf was a little out of conceit with himself and
                        the world at large: a vague depression and irritation got hold of him.
                        Before breakfast, while ruminating over a list of books for Miss Flodden's
                        reading, he had mechanically taken up a volume which lay on the drawing-room
                        table. There were not many books at Yetholme, except those which were never
                        moved from the library shelves; and the family's taste ran to Rider Haggard
                        and sporting novels; while the collection put in his room, and bearing the
                        name of Valentine Flodden, consisted either of things he
                        already knew by heart—a selection from Browning, a volume of Tolstoy, and an
                        Imitation of Christ;—or of others—as sundry works on Esoteric Buddhism, a
                        handbook of Perspective, and a novel by Marie Corelli—which he felt little
                        desire to read. The book that he took up was from the Circulating Library,
                        Henry James's “Princess Casamassima.” He had read it, of course, and dived
                        into it—the last volume it was— at random.
                        Do authors ever reflect how much influence they must occasionally have,
                        coming by accident, to arouse some latent feeling, or to reinforce some
                        dominant habit of mind? Certainly Henry James had been possessed of no
                        ill-will towards Miss Val Flodden, whom indeed he might have made the
                        heroine of some amiable story. Yet Henry James, at that moment, did Val
                        Flodden a very bad turn. Greenleaf got up from the book, after twenty
                        minutes' random reading, in a curiously suspicious and aggressive mood. Of
                        course he never dreamed that he, a gentleman of some independent means, a
                        scholar, a man who had known the upper classes long before he had ever come
                        in contact with the lower, could have anything in common with poor Hyacinth,
                        the socialist bookbinder, pining for luxury and the love of a great lady;
                        neither was there much resemblance between Christina Light, married to
                        Prince Casamassima, and this young Val Flodden married to nobody; yet the
                        book depressed him horribly, by its suggestion of the odd freaks of
                        curiosity which relieve the weariness of idle lives. And the depression was
                        such, that he could not hold his tongue on the subject.
                    “Have you read that book—the ‘Princess Casamassima’—Miss Flodden?” he asked
                        at breakfast.
                    
                    “Yes,” answered the girl; “isn't it good? and so natural, don't you
                        think?”
                    “You don't mean that you think the Princess natural—you don't think there
                        ever could be such a horrible woman?”
                    He was quite sure there might be, indeed the fear of such an one quite
                        overpowered him at this very moment; and he asked in hopes of Miss Flodden
                        saying that there were no Princess Casamassimas.
                    Something in his tone appeared to irritate Miss Flodden. She thought him
                        pharisaical, as she sometimes did, and considered it her duty to give him a
                        setting down with the weight of her superior worldly wisdom.
                    “Of course I think her natural; only she might be more natural still.”
                    “You mean more wicked?” asked Greenleaf sharply.
                    “No, not more wicked. The woman in the book may be intended to be wicked; but
                        she needn't have been so in real life. Not at all wicked. She's merely a
                        clever woman who is bored by society, and who wants to know about a lot of
                        things and people. Heaps of women want to know about things because they're
                        bored, but it's not always about nice things and nice people, as in the case of the Princess. She may have done
                        mischief—she shouldn't have played with that wretched little morbid
                        bookbinding boy; women oughtn't to play with men even when they're fools,
                        indeed especially not then. But that wasn't inevitable. Hyacinth
                            would run under her wheels Of course I shouldn't have cared
                        for that chemist creature either, nor for that Captain Sholto; he behaved
                        rather like a cad all round, don't you think? But after all, they all talked
                        very well; about interesting things—real, important things—didn't they?”
                    “And you think that to hear people talk about real, important
                            things is a great delight, Miss Flodden?” asked Greenleaf, with a
                        bitterness she did not fully appreciate.
                    “You would understand it if you had lived for years among people who talked
                        nothing but gossip and rot,” she answered sadly, rising from her place.
                    No more was said that morning about the Princess Casamassima. Miss Flodden
                        was rather silent during their cataloguing work, and Greenleaf felt vaguely
                        sore, he knew not what about.
                    Throughout the day, there kept returning to his mind those words, “You see
                        they talked very well, about interesting things, important,
                            real things, didn't
                        they?” and the simple, taking-things-for-granted tone in which they had been
                        said. Women of her lot, Miss Flodden had once informed him, would go great
                        lengths for the sake of a new frock or a pair of stepping horses. Was it not
                        possible that some of them, to whom frocks and horses had been offered in
                        too great abundance, might transfer their desire for novelty to interesting
                        talk and real things?
                    That was their last afternoon together. The catalogue had been finished with.
                        Miss Flodden took Greenleaf for a drive in her cart. They sped along under
                        the rolling clouds of the blustering northern afternoon, the rooks, in black
                        swarms, cawing loudly, and the pee-wits screeching among the stunted hedges
                        and black stones of the green, close-nibbled pastures; it was one of those
                        August days which foretell winter. Greenleaf could never recollect very well
                        what they had talked about, except that it had been about a great variety of
                        things, which the blustering wind had seemed to sweep away like the brown
                        beech leaves in the hollows. The fact was that Greenleaf was not attending.
                        He kept revolving in his mind the same idea, with the impossibility of
                        solving it. He was rather like a man in love, who cannot decide whether or
                        not he is sufficiently so to make a declaration and feels the propitious moment escaping. Greenleaf was not in
                        love; had he been, had there been any chance of his being so, Val Flodden
                        would not have been there in the cart by his side; she had once told him, in
                        one of her fits of abstract communicativeness, that people in love were
                        despicable, but for that reason to be pitied, and that to let them fall in
                        love was to be unkind to them, and to prepare a detestable exhibition for
                        oneself. So Greenleaf was not in love. But he was as excited as if he had
                        been. He felt that a great suspicion had arisen within him; and that this
                        suspicion was about to deprive him of a friendship to which he clung as to a
                        newly-found interest in life.
                    About Miss Flodden he did not think—that is to say, whether he might be
                        running the risk of depriving her of something. He had not made
                        love to her, so what could he deprive her of? Besides he thought of Miss
                        Flodden exclusively as of the person who was probably going to deprive him
                        of something he wanted. Deprive him if his suspicions should be true. For if
                        his suspicions were true, there was no alternative to giving up all
                        relations with her. He was not a selfish man, trying to save himself
                        heartburns and disenchantments. He was thinking of his opinions, solely. It
                        was quite impossible that they should become the toys of an idle, frivolous woman. Such a thing could
                        not be. The sense of sacrilege was so great that he did not even say to
                        himself that such a thing could not be allowed: to him it took
                        the form of impossibility of its being at all.
                    Greenleaf was in an agony of doubt; he kept on repeating to himself—“Is she a
                        Princess Casamassima?” so often, that at last he found it quite natural to
                        put the question, so often formulated internally, out loud to her. Of course
                        if she were a Princess Casamassima, her denial would be worth nothing; but
                        when we cannot endure a suspicion against someone, we do not, in our wild
                        desire to have it denied at any price, stop short to reflect that the denial
                        will be worthless. A denial; he wanted a denial, not for the sake of justice
                        towards her, but for his own peace of mind. He was on the very point of
                        putting that strange question to her, when, in the process of a conversation
                        in which he had taken part as in a dream, there suddenly came the
                        unasked-for answer.
                    They must have been talking of the Princess Casamassima again, and of the
                        uninterestingness of most people's lives. Greenleaf could not remember. It
                        was all muddled in his memory, only there suddenly flashed a sentence,
                        distinct, burning, out of that forgotten confusion.
                    
                    “It's odd,” said Miss Flodden's high, occasionally childish voice; “but I've
                        always found that the people who bored one least were either very clever or
                        very fast.”
                    They were clattering into a little border town, with low black houses on
                        either side, and a square tower, with a red tile extinguisher, and a veering
                        weathercock, closing the distance and connecting the grey, wet flags below
                        with the grey, billowy sky above.
                    Greenleaf, although forgetful of all save theories, remembered for a long
                        time that street and that tower. He did not answer, for his heart was
                        overflowing with bitterness.
                    So it was true; and it just had to be. He had let his belief become the
                        plaything of a capricious child. He had lost his dear friend. It was
                        inevitable.
                    Greenleaf did not say a word, and showed nothing until his departure. But his
                        letter to Miss Flodden, thanking for the hospitality of Yetholme, was brief,
                        and it contained no allusion to any future meeting, and no promised
                        introduction to the Miss Carpenters. Only at the end was this sentence: “I
                        have lately been re-reading Henry James's ‘Princess Casamassima’: and I
                        agree with you completely now as to the naturalness of her character.”
                
                
                
                    VIII.
                    SOME ten years later found Leonard Greenleaf once more—but this time
                        with only a brougham and a footman to meet him—on his way to stay in a
                        country house. He had been left penniless by his attempts to start
                        co-operative workshops: and overwork and worry had made him far too weak to
                        be a tolerable artisan; so, after having given up his pottery, those long
                        years ago, because it ministered exclusively to rich men's luxury, he had
                        been obliged to swallow the bitterness of perfecting rich men's dwellings in
                        the capacity of Messrs. Boyce & Co.'s chief decorator; and now he
                        was bent upon one of these hated errands.
                    Time, and the experience of many failures, had indeed perplexed poor
                        Greenleaf's socialistic schemes a little, and had left him doubtful how to
                        hasten the millennium, except by the slow methods of preaching morality and
                        thrift; but time had rather exasperated his hatred of the idleness and
                        selfishness of the 
                            privi-
                            privileged
                         leged classes, to whose luxury
                        he now found himself a minister. And, as he looked out of his window while
                        dressing for dinner (those evening clothes, necessary for such occasions,
                        had become a badge of servitude in his eyes), he felt that old indignation
                        arise with unaccountable strength, and choke him with his own silence. It
                        was a long, low house, the lawn spread, with scarcely any fall, down to the
                        river brink; a wide band of green, then a wide band of shimmering, undecided
                        blue and grey, reflecting the coppery clouds and purple banks of
                        loose-strife, and then beyond and higher up in the picture, flat meadows,
                        whose surface was beginning to be veiled in mist, and whose boundary elms
                        were growing flat and unsubstantial, like painted things. There were birds
                        twittering, and leaves rustling: a great sense of peacefulness, for the
                        family and guests were doubtless within doors busy dressing. Suddenly, there
                        was a plash of oars, and a peal of laughter; and, after a minute, two men
                        and a woman came hurrying up the green lawn, against whose darkening slopes
                        their white clothes made spots of unearthly whiteness in the twilight. They
                        were noisy, and Greenleaf hated their laughter; but suddenly the lady
                        stopped short a moment, and said to her companions in a tone of boredom and
                        irritation: “Oh, shut up; can't you let
                        one look about and listen to things once in a way?”
                    There was more laughter, and they all disappeared indoors. Greenleaf leaned
                        upon his window, wondering where he had heard that voice before—that voice,
                        or rather one different, but yet very like it.
                    Downstairs, after a few civil speeches about the pleasure of having the
                        assistance of so great an artistic authority, and sundry contradictory
                        suggestions about styles of furniture and architecture, Greenleaf's host and
                        hostess requested him to join in a little game devised for the removal of
                        precedence in the arrangement of places at table. The game, which had been
                        suggested that very moment by one of the various tall, blond and moustached
                        youths hanging about the drawing-room, consisted in hiding all the men
                        behind a door curtain, whence projected, as sole clue to their identity,
                        their more or less tell-tale feet, by which the ladies were to choose their
                        partners. The feet, so Greenleaf said to himself, were singularly without
                        identity; he saw in his mind's eye the row of projecting, pointed-toed,
                        shining pumps, cut low upon the fantastic assortment of striped, speckled,
                        and otherwise enlivened silk stockings. Among them all there could only be a
                        single pair betraying the nature of their
                        owner, and it was his. They said, or would say, in the mute but expressive
                        language of their square-toedness (Greenleaf felt as if they might have
                        elastic sides even, although his democratic views had always stopped short
                        before that), that their owner was the curate, the tutor, the
                        house-decorator, in fine, the interloper. He wondered whether, as good
                        nature to himself and consideration for the other guests must prompt, those
                        feet would be immediately selected by the mistress of the house, or whether
                        they would be left there unclaimed, when all the others had marched
                        cheerfully off.
                    But his suspense was quickly converted into another feeling, when among the
                        laughter and exclamations provoked by the performance, a voice came from
                        beyond the curtain, saying slowly: “I think I'll have this pair.” The voice
                        was the same he had heard from the lawn, the same he had heard years ago in
                        the British Museum, and on the banks of the Tweed—the same which once or
                        twice since, but at ever-increasing intervals, he had tried in vain to
                        recall to his mind's hearing. The voice—but grown deeper, more deliberate
                        and uniformly weary—of Val Flodden.
                    Greenleaf heard vaguely the introductory interchange of names performed by
                        his hostess; and felt in his back the
                        well-bred smile of amusement of the couples still behind, as the lady took
                        his unprepared arm and walked him off in the helter-skelter move to the
                        dining-room; and it was as in a dream that he heard his name pronounced,
                        with the added information, on the part of his companion, that it was a long
                        time since they had last met.
                    “Yes,” answered Greenleaf, as the servant gently pushed him and his chair
                        nearer the table; “it must be quite a lot of years ago. I have come here,”
                        he added, he scarce knew why—but with a vague sense of protest and
                        self-defence—“about doing up the house.”
                    “Yes, to be sure—it is all going to be overhauled and made beautiful and
                        inappropriate,” replied the lady, with a faint intonation of insolence,
                        Greenleaf thought, in her bored voice.
                    “It is not always easy, is it,” rejoined Greenleaf, “to make things
                        appropriate?”
                    “And beautiful? I suppose not. We aren't any of us very appropriate to a
                        river-bank, with cows lowing and scythes being whetted and all that sort of
                        thing, when one comes to think of it.”
                    “Oh, I do think cows are such interesting creatures—don't you?” put in the
                        charming voice of a charming, charmingly dressed, innocent looking woman opposite, who was evidently the
                        accredited fool of the party. “Sir Robert took us to see a lot of his—all
                        over the dairies, you know—this afternoon, while you were punting.”
                    Another lady, also very charming and charmingly dressed, but neither innocent
                        nor foolish, made some comment on this speech to the man next to her; he
                        said something in his turn, there was a general suppressed laugh, and the
                        innocent looking lady laughed too; but protesting they oughtn't to say such
                        things.
                    Greenleaf's mind, little accustomed to the charms of innuendoes and slippery
                        allusions, had not followed the intricacies of the conversation. An
                        astonishing girl, beautiful with the beauty of a well-bred horse, sat next
                        to him, and tried to perplex him with sundry questions which she knew he
                        could not follow; but she speedily found there was no rise to be got out of
                        him, and bestowed elsewhere her remarks, racy in more senses than one. So
                        Greenleaf sat silent, looking vaguely at the pools of light beneath the
                        candle-shades, in which the rose petals strewn about, the roses lying
                        loosely, took warm old ivory tints, and the silver—the fantastic confusion
                        of chased salt-cellars and menu-holders and spoons and indescribable
                        objects—flashed blue and lilac on its smooth or chiselled surfaces. From the table the
                        concentrated, shaded light led upwards to the opal necklace of the lady
                        opposite, the blue of the opals changing, with the movement of her head, to
                        green, burning and flickering into fiery sparks; then Greenleaf noticed,
                        sometimes modelled into roundness and sometimes blurred into flatness in the
                        shadow, the black sleeves of the men, the arms of the women, ivory like the
                        rose petals where they advanced beneath the candle-shades; and behind, to
                        the back of the shimmer of the light stuffs and the glare of white
                        shirt-fronts, the big footmen, vague, shadowy, moving about. A man opposite,
                        with babyish eyes and complexion, was telling some story about walking from
                        a punt into the water, which raised the wrath of the girl near Greenleaf;
                        others added further details, which she laughingly tried to deny; there was
                        something about having fastened her garter with a diamond star, and the
                        river having to be dragged for it. Another man, gaunt and languid, said
                        something about not hiding old damask under rose-leaves; but being unnoticed
                        by his hostess, went on about “Parsifal” to his neighbour, the lady
                        interested in cows. There were also allusions to the other Cowes, the place,
                        and to yachting; and a great many to various kinds of sport and to gambling and losing money; indeed, it was
                        marvellous how much money was lost and bankruptcy sustained (technically
                        called getting broke).
                    The men were mostly more good-looking than not; the women, it seemed to
                        Greenleaf, beautiful enough, each of them, to reward a good month's search.
                        There was a smell, cool and white and acute, of gardenias, from the
                        buttonholes, and a warmer, vaguer one of rose petals; the mixture of black
                        coats and indescribable coloured silk, and of bare arms and necks, the
                        alternations of concentrated light and vague shadow, the occasional glint
                        and glimmer of stones, particularly that warm ivory of roses among the
                        silver, struck Greenleaf, long unaccustomed to even much slighter luxury, as
                        extraordinarily beautiful, like some Tadema picture of Roman orgies. And the
                        more beautiful it seemed to him, with its intentional, elaborate beauty, the
                        more did it make him gnash his teeth with the sense of its wickedness, and
                        force him, for his own conscience' sake, to conjure up other pictures: of
                        grimy, gaslit London streets, and battered crowds round barrows of cheap,
                        half-spoilt food.
                    The lady who had once been called Val Flodden, and whose name—and he fancied
                        he had heard it before—was now Mrs.
                        Hermann Struwë, addressed him with the necessary politeness, and asked him
                        one or two questions about his work and so forth, in a conventional, bored
                        tone. But, although the knowledge that this was his old acquaintance, and
                        the recognition, every now and then, of the fact, put his feelings into a
                        superficial flutter, Greenleaf's mind kept revolving the fact that this
                        woman was really quite a stranger to him; and the apparently somewhat
                        contradictory fact that this was what, after all, he had known she would end
                        in. He noted that among these beautiful and self-satisfied women, with their
                        occasional cleverness and frequent unseemliness of word and allusion, the
                        former Val Flodden was in a way conspicuous, not because she was better
                        looking, but because she was more weary, more reckless, because one somehow
                        expected her to do more, for good or bad, than the others.
                    “I don't see exactly which of the party could have reported the case,” said
                        the woman with the opals, “at least, the crucifix could scarcely have done
                        so ... well, well.”
                    There was a great deal of laughter, as the hostess gave the signal for
                        rising; but over it and the rustle and crackle of the ladies' frocks, the
                        voice of Mrs. Hermann Struwë was heard to
                        say in languid, contemptuous tone: “I think your story is a little bit
                        beastly, my dear Algy.”
                    Fortunately for Greenleaf, the men did not stay long at table, as smoking was
                        equally allowed all over the house and in the ladies' presence. For
                        Greenleaf, whose conversation with other men had for years turned only on
                        politics, philosophy, or business, was imbued, much as a woman might have
                        been, with a foregone conviction that as soon as idle men were left to
                        themselves they began to discuss womankind. And there was at the table one
                        man in particular, a long, black, nervous man, with a smiling, jerky mouth,
                        an odd sample of Jewry acclimatised in England, a horrid, half-handsome man,
                        with extraordinarily bland manners and an extraordinarily hard expression,
                        obstinate and mocking, about whom Greenleaf felt that he positively could
                        not sit out any of his conversation on women, and, of course,
                            his conversation would turn on women; partly,
                        perhaps, because the fellow had been introduced as Mr. Hermann Struwë.
                    Her husband—that was her husband! Greenleaf kept repeating to
                        himself, as he answered as best he could his host's remarks about
                        Elizabethan as against Queen Anne. It was
                        only now when he thought of her in connection with this man that Greenleaf
                        realised that he was really a little upset by this meeting with his old
                        acquaintance. And the thought went on and on, round and round, in his head,
                        when he had followed the first stragglers who went to smoke their cigarettes
                        with the ladies, and answered the interrogations of the æsthetic man who had
                        talked about old damask and Wagner. The man in question, delighted to lay
                        hold of so great an authority as Greenleaf, had also noticed that Greenleaf
                        had known Mrs. Hermann Struwë at some former period. He had evidently been
                        snubbed a little by the lady, and partly from a desire to hear her artistic
                        capacities pooh-poohed by a professional (since every amateur imagines
                        himself the only tolerable one), and partly from a natural taste for knowing
                        what did not concern him, he had set very artfully to pump poor Greenleaf,
                        who, at best, was no match for a wily man of the world.
                    “Miss Flodden had a good deal of talent—quite a remarkable talent—as a
                        draughtsman, had she only studied seriously,” he answered emphatically,
                        seeing only that the fellow wished for some quotable piece of running down.
                        “It is, in fact, a pity”—but he stopped.
                        He was really not thinking of that. The long drawing-room opened with all
                        its windows on to the lawn, and you could see, at the bottom of that, the
                        outlines of trees and boats in the moonlight, and Chinese lanterns hanging
                        about the flotilla of moored punts and canoes and skiffs, to which some of
                        the party had gone down, revealing themselves with occasional splashings,
                        thrummings on the banjo, and little cries and peals of laughter. Nearer the
                        house a couple was walking up and down on the grass, the light of the
                        drawing-room lamps catching their faces with an odd, yellow glow every now
                        and then, and making the woman's white frock shimmer like silver against the
                        branches of the big cedars. “It appears Lady Lilly told her mother she was
                        going to try on a frock, but somehow on the way there she met Morton's
                        coach, so she thought she'd get on to it and have some change of air and she
                        changed the air so often that by the evening she had contrived to win sixty
                        pounds at Sandown,” said one of the promenading couples, pausing in the
                        stream of light from the window. “Oh, bless your soul, she doesn't mind it's
                        being told; she thinks it an awful joke, and so it was.”
                    That man—that Val Flodden should have married that man—Greenleaf kept repeating to himself, and the recollection of her
                        words about never getting married, about a world where there would be no
                        diamonds and no stepping horses, and also, as she expressed it, no marrying
                        and giving in marriage, filled Greenleaf's mind as with some bitter, heady
                        dram. And he had thought of her as a sort of unapproachable proud amazon, or
                        Diana of Hippolytus, incapable of any feeling save indignation against
                        injustice and pity for weak and gentle things. Oh Lord, oh Lord! It was
                        horrible, horrible, and at the same time laughable. And just that man,
                        too—that narrow, obstinate looking creature with the brain and the heart
                        (Greenleaf knew it for a certainty) of a barn-door cock! And yet, was he any
                        worse than the others, the others who, perhaps, had a little more brains and
                        a little more heart, and who all the same lived only to waste the work of
                        the poor, to make debts, to gamble, to ruin women, and to fill the world
                        with filthy talk and disbelief in better things? Was he worse than all the
                        other manly, well-mannered, accomplished, futile, or mischievous creatures?
                        Was he worse than she?
                    “Ah, well, of course; you have known her so much more than I have,” said the
                        æsthetic man, puffing at his cigarette,
                        opposite to Greenleaf. “But now, I should have thought there would have
                        always been something lacking in anything that woman would do. A certain—I
                        don't know what to call it—but, in short, proper mental balance and
                        steadiness. I consider, that for real artistic quality, it is necessary that
                        one should possess some sort of seriousness, of consistency of character—of
                        course you know her so much better, Mr. Greenleaf—but now I can't understand
                        a really artistic woman—after refusing half a dozen other fellows who were
                        at least gentlemen, suddenly choosing a tubbed Jew like that—and apparently
                        not seeing that he is only a tubbed Jew,” the æsthetic man stopped,
                        disappointed in not getting a rise from Greenleaf, but Greenleaf was
                        scarcely listening.
                    A man had sat down to the piano and was singing, on the whole, rather well.
                        Some of the people were standing by him, others were in little groups, men
                        and women nearly all smoking equally, scattered about the big white room
                        with the delicate blue china, and the big stacks of pale pink begonias. Mrs.
                        Hermann Struwë was standing near the piano, leaning against the long, open
                        window, the principal figure in a group of two other women and a man. In her
                             fanciful, straight-hanging dress of
                        misty-coloured crape, her hair, elaborately and tightly dressed, making her
                        small head even smaller, and her strong, slender neck, with the black pearls
                        around it, drawn up like a peacock's, she struck Greenleaf as much more
                        beautiful than before, and even much taller; but there had been a
                        gentleness, a something timid and winning, in her former occasional little
                        stoop, which was now quite gone. She looked young, but young in quite
                        another way; she was now very thin, and her cheeks were hollowed very
                        perceptibly.
                    The bland, blurred man at the piano was singing with all his might, and with
                        considerable voice and skill; but the music, of his own composition, was
                        indecorously passionate as he sang it, at least taken in connection with the
                        words, culled from some decadent French poet, and which few people would
                        have deliberately read out aloud. The innocent lady who had talked about
                        cows even made some faint objection, to which the singer answered much
                        surprised, by blandly pointing out the passionate charm of the words, and
                        assuring her that she did not know what real feeling was. And when he had
                        finished that song, and begun another, one of the two other women actually moved away, while the other buried
                        her head in a volume of Punch; there was a little murmur,
                        “Well, I think he is going a little too far.” But Mrs. Hermann Struwë never
                        moved.
                    “I can't make out that woman,” remarked Greenleaf's new acquaintance, the
                        æsthetic man; “she's usually by ways of being prudish, and has a way of
                        shutting up poor Chatty when he gets into this strain. Only yesterday, she
                        told him his song was beastly, and it wasn't half as bad as this one. I
                        expect she's doing it from cussedness, because her husband was bored at her
                        being too particular yesterday; because, of course, he'll be bored by her
                        not being particular enough to-day.”
                    Greenleaf walked up to a picture, and thence slunk off to the door. As he was
                        leaving the room, he looked back at the former Miss Flodden: she was still
                        standing near the piano, listening composedly, but he thought that her thin
                        face bore an expression of defiance.
                    He was so excited that he opened his room door too quickly to give effect to
                        a practical joke, consisting of a can of water balancing on its angle as it
                        stood ajar, and intended to tumble on his head while he was passing in; a
                        delicate jest which the girl who had sat
                        next to him—she of the punt, diamond garter and coach
                        adventures—occasionally practised on the new inmates of what she technically
                        called “houses.”
                
                
                
                    IX.
                    THE next morning, after surveying the house with his host, and
                        making elaborate plans for its alteration with his hostess, Greenleaf was
                        going for a stroll outside the grounds, when he suddenly heard his name
                        called by the voice of her who had once been Val Flodden, but of whom he
                        already thought only as Mrs. Hermann Struwë. She arose from under a big
                        cedar, among whose sweeping branches she had been seated reading.
                    “Are you going for a walk?” she asked, coming towards him in her white frock,
                        incredibly white against the green lawn, and trailing her also incredibly
                        white parasol after her.
                    “Is it true that you go back to town this afternoon?”
                    “Yes,” answered Greenleaf, laconically.
                    “Then,” she said, “I will come with you a little way.”
                    
                    They walked silently through a little wood of beeches, and out into the
                        meadows by the river. Greenleaf found it too difficult to say anything, and,
                        after all, why say anything to her?
                    “Look here,” began Mrs. Hermann Struwë, suddenly stopping short by the
                        water's brink. “I want to speak to you quite plainly, Mr. Greenleaf. Quite
                        plainly, as one does, don't you know, to a person one isn't likely ever to
                        meet again. I didn't want to speak to you yesterday, because—well—because I
                        disliked you too much.”
                    Greenleaf looked up from the grasses steeping at the root of a big willow, in
                        the water.
                    “Why?” he asked blankly, but a vague pain invading his consciousness, with
                        the recollection of the library at Yetholme, of the catalogue and the dusty
                        majolica, when Miss Flodden had said once before that she disliked him,
                        because he was taking away the pots.
                    “But I've thought over it,” she went on, not noticing his interruption; “and
                        I see again, what I recognised years ago—only that every now and then I
                        can't help forgetting it and feeling bad—namely, that it was quite natural
                        on your part—I mean your never having introduced me to the Miss Carpenters,
                            nor even written to me again.” She
                        spoke slowly and very gently, with just a little hesitation, as he
                        remembered so well her having done those years ago in Northumberland.
                    An unknown feeling overwhelmed Greenleaf and prevented his speaking—the
                        feeling, he vaguely understood, of having destroyed, of having killed
                        something.
                    “I don't reproach you with it. I never really did. I understood very soon
                        that it was quite natural on your part to take me for a Princess
                        Casamassima. I had done nothing to make you really know me, and I had no
                        right to expect you to take me on my own telling. And there must have been
                        so many things to make you suspect my not deserving to know your friends, or
                        to learn about your ideas. It wasn't that,” she added, hurriedly, “that I
                        wished really to explain, because, as I repeat, although I sometimes feel
                        unreasonable and angry, like last night, when something suddenly makes me
                        see the contrast between what I might have been, and what I am, I don't bear
                        you any grudge. What I wanted to tell you, Mr. Greenleaf, is that I wasn't
                        unworthy of the confidence, though it wasn't much, which you once placed in
                        me. I was not a Princess Casamassima; I was not a 
                            hum-
                            humbug
                         bug then, saying things and
                        getting you to say them for the sake of the novelty. And I'm not really
                        changed since. I wasn't a worthless woman then; and I haven't really become
                        a worthless woman now. Shall we go towards home? I think I heard the
                        gong.”
                    They were skirting the full river, with its fringe of steeping loose-strife
                        and meadow-sweet, and its clumps of sedge, starred with forget-me-not,
                        whence whirred occasional water-fowl. From the field opposite there came
                        every now and then the lazy low of a cow.
                    “It was very different, wasn't it, on the Tweed,” she said, looking round
                        her; “the banks so steep and bare, and all that shingle. Do you remember the
                        heron? Didn't he look Japanese? I hate all this,” and she dug up a pellet of
                        green with her parasol point, and flung it far into the water.
                    “Of course,” she went on, “to you it must seem the very proof of your
                        suspicions having been justified, I mean your finding me again—well, in this
                        house. And, perhaps, you may remember my telling you, all those years ago at
                        Yetholme, that I would never marry.”
                    She raised her eyes from the ground and looked straight into his, with that
                        odd deepening of colour of her own. She
                        had guessed his thoughts: that sentence about not marrying and being given
                        in marriage was ringing in his mind; and he felt, as she looked into his
                        face, that she wished above all to clear herself from that unspoken
                        accusation.
                    “I never should have, most likely,” she went on. “Although you must remember
                        that all my bringing up had consisted in teaching me that a woman's one
                        business in life is to marry, to make a good marriage, to marry
                        into this set, a man like my husband. For a long while before I ever met
                        you, I had made up my mind that although this was undoubtedly the natural
                        and virtuous course, I would not follow it, that I would rather earn my
                        living or starve; and I had been taught that to do either, to go one's own
                        ways and think one's own thoughts, was scandalous. It was about this that I
                        had broken with my sister. She had bothered me to marry one of a variety of
                        men whom she unearthed for the purpose; and we quarrelled because I refused
                        the one she wanted me to have most—the one, as a matter of fact, who is now
                        my husband. I tell you all these uninteresting things because I want you to
                        know that I was in earnest when I told you I did not want the things a woman
                        gets by marrying. I was in earnest,” she
                        went on, stopping and twisting a long willow leaf round her finger, the tone
                        of her voice changing suddenly from almost defiant earnestness to a sad,
                        helpless little tone, “but it was of no good. I saw—you showed me that I was
                        locked, walled into the place into which I had been born; you made me feel
                        that it was useless for an outsider to try to gain the confidence of you
                        people who work and care about things; that your friends would consider me
                        an intruder, that you considered me a humbug—you slammed in my face the
                        little door through which I had hoped to have escaped from all this sort of
                        thing.”
                    And she nodded towards the white house, stretched like a little encampment
                        upon the green river bank, with the flotilla of boats and punts and steam
                        launches, moored before its windows.
                    “Then,” said Greenleaf, a light coming into his mind, a light such as would
                        reveal some great ruin of flood or fire to the unconscious criminal who has
                        opened the sluice or dropped the match in the dark, “then you sat out that
                        song last night to make me understand....?”
                    “It was very childish of me, and also very unjust,” answered Mrs. Hermann
                        composedly. “Of course you couldn't help it. I don't feel angry with you. But sometimes, when I remember those
                        weeks when I gradually understood that it was all to be, and I made up my
                        mind to live out the life for which I had been born—and, now that the pots
                        were sold—well, to sell myself also to the highest bidder—sometimes I did
                        feel a little bad. You see when one is really honest oneself, it is hard to
                        be misunderstood—and the more misunderstood the more one explains oneself—by
                        other people who are honest.”
                    They walked along in silence; which Greenleaf broke by asking as in a
                        dream—“And your violin?”
                    “Oh! I've given that up long ago—my husband didn't like it, and as he has
                        given me everything that I possess, it wouldn't be business, would it, to do
                        things he dislikes? If it had been the piano, or the guitar, or the banjo!
                        But a woman can't lock herself up and practice the fiddle! People would
                        think it odd. And now,” she added, as they came in sight of the little
                        groups of variegated pink and mauve frocks, and the white boating-clothes
                        under the big cedars, “good-bye, Mr. Greenleaf; and—be a little more
                        trustful to other people who may want your friendship—won't you? I shall
                        like to think of that.” She stretched out her hand, with the thin glove
                        loosely wrinkled over the arm, and she smiled that good, wide-eyed smile, like that of a good, serious child
                        who wishes to understand.
                    Greenleaf did not take her hand at once.
                    “You have children at least?” he asked hoarsely.
                    She understood his thought, but hesitated before answering.
                    “I have three—somewhere—at the sea-side, or some other place where children
                        ought to be when their parents go staying about,”—she answered quickly—“they
                        are quite happy, with plenty of toys, now; and they will be quite happy when
                        they grow up, for they will have plenty of money, and they will be their
                        father's image—good-bye!”
                    “Good-bye,” answered Greenleaf, and added, after he had let go her hand, “It
                        is very generous of you to be so forgiving. But your generosity makes it
                        only more impossible for me ever to forgive myself.”
                    Out of the station of that little group of river houses the line goes almost
                        immediately on to a long bridge. It was in process of repair, and as the
                        train moved slowly across, Greenleaf could see, on the upper river reach,
                        close beneath him, a flotilla of boats, canoes, and skiffs of various sizes,
                        surrounding a punt, and all of them gay with lilac and pale green and pale
                        pink frocks, and white flannels, and coloured sashes and cushions, and fantastic umbrellas. Some of the
                        ladies were scrambling from one of the skiffs into the punt, which was
                        pinned into its place by the long pole held upright in the green, glassy
                        water, reflecting the pink, green, lilac, and white, the red cushions, and
                        the shimmering greyness of the big willows. There was much laughter and some
                        little shrieks, and the twang of a banjo; and it looked altogether like some
                        modern Watteau's version of a latter-day embarkation for the island of
                        Venus. And, in the little heap of bright colours, Greenleaf recognised, over
                        the side of a skiff, the parasol, white, incredibly white, of the former Val
                        Flodden.
                
            
            
            
                THE LEGEND OF MADAME KRASINSKA.
                
                THE LEGEND OF MADAME KRASINSKA.
                
                    IT is a necessary part of this story to explain how I have come by
                        it, or rather, how it has chanced to have me for its writer.
                    I was very much impressed one day by a certain nun of the order calling
                        themselves Little Sisters of the Poor. I had been taken to these sisters to
                        support the recommendation of a certain old lady, the former door-keeper of
                        his studio, whom my friend Cecco Bandini wished to place in the asylum. It
                        turned out, of course, that Cecchino was perfectly able to plead his case
                        without my assistance; so I left him blandishing the Mother Superior in the
                        big, cheerful kitchen, and begged to be shown over the rest of the
                        establishment. The sister who was told off to accompany me was the one of
                        whom I would speak.
                    
                    This lady was tall and slight; her figure, as she preceded me up the narrow
                        stairs and through the whitewashed wards, was uncommonly elegant and
                        charming; and she had a girlish rapidity of movement, which caused me to
                        experience a little shock at the first real sight which I caught of her
                        face. It was young and remarkably pretty, with a kind of refinement peculiar
                        to American women; but it was inexpressibly, solemnly tragic; and one felt
                        that under her tight linen cap, the hair must be snow white. The tragedy,
                        whatever it might have been, was now over; and the lady's expression, as she
                        spoke to the old creatures scraping the ground in the garden, ironing the
                        sheets in the laundry, or merely huddling over their braziers in the chill
                        winter sunshine, was pathetic only by virtue of its strange present
                        tenderness, and by that trace of terrible past suffering.
                    She answered my questions very briefly, and was as taciturn as ladies of
                        religious communities are usually loquacious. Only, when I expressed my
                        admiration for the institution which contrived to feed scores of old paupers
                        on broken victuals begged from private houses and inns, she turned her eyes
                        full upon me and said, with an earnestness which was almost passionate, “Ah,
                        the old! The old! It is so much,much worse
                        for them than for any others. Have you ever tried to imagine what it is to
                        be poor and forsaken and old?”
                    These words and the strange ring in the sister's voice, the strange light in
                        her eyes, remained in my memory. What was not, therefore, my surprise when,
                        on returning to the kitchen, I saw her start and lay hold of the back of the
                        chair as soon as she caught sight of Cecco Bandini. Cecco, on his side also,
                        was visibly startled, but only after a moment; it was clear that she
                        recognised him long before he identified her. What little romance could
                        there exist in common between my eccentric painter and that serene but
                        tragic Sister of the Poor?
                    A week later, it became evident that Cecco Bandini had come to explain the
                        mystery; but to explain it (as I judged by the embarrassment of his manner)
                        by one of those astonishingly elaborate lies occasionally attempted by
                        perfectly frank persons. It was not the case. Cecchino had come indeed to
                        explain that little dumb scene which had passed between him and the Little
                        Sister of the Poor. He had come, however, not to satisfy my curiosity, or to
                        overcome my suspicions, but to execute a commission which he had greatly at
                        heart; to help, as he expressed it, in the
                        accomplishment of a good work by a real saint.
                    Of course, he explained, smiling that good smile under his black eyebrows and
                        white moustache, he did not expect me to believe very literally the story
                        which he had undertaken to get me to write. He only asked, and the lady only
                        wished, me, to write down her narrative without any comments, and leave to
                        the heart of the reader the decision about its truth or falsehood.
                    For this reason, and the better to attain the object of appealing to the
                        profane, rather than to the religious, reader, I have abandoned the order of
                        narrative of the Little Sister of the Poor; and attempted to turn her pious
                        legend into a worldly story, as follows:—
                
                
                
                    I.
                    CECCO BANDINI had just returned from the Maremma, to whose solitary
                        marshes and jungles he had fled in one of his fits of fury at the stupidity
                        and wickedness of the civilised world. A great many months spent among
                        buffaloes and wild boars, conversing only with those wild cherry-trees, of
                        whom he used whimsically to say, “they are such good little folk,” had sent
                        him back with an extraordinary zest for civilisation, and a comic tendency
                        to find its products, human and otherwise, extraordinary, picturesque, and
                        suggestive. He was in this frame of mind when there came a light rap on his
                        door-slate; and two ladies appeared on the threshold of his studio, with the
                        shaven face and cockaded hat of a tall footman over-topping them from
                        behind. One of them was unknown to our painter; the other was numbered among
                        Cecchino's very few grand acquaintances.
                    “Why haven't you been round to me yet, you savage?” she asked, advancing
                        quickly with a brusque hand-shake and a
                        brusque bright gleam of eyes and teeth, well-bred but audacious and a trifle
                        ferocious. And dropping on to a divan she added, nodding first at her
                        companion and then at the pictures all round, “I have brought my friend,
                        Madame Krasinska, to see your things,” and she began poking with her parasol
                        at the contents of a gaping portfolio.
                    The Baroness Fosca—for such was her name—was one of the cleverest and fastest
                        ladies of the place, with a taste for art and ferociously frank
                        conversation. To Cecco Bandini, as she lay back among her furs on that
                        shabby divan of his, she appeared in the light of the modern Lucretia
                        Borgia, the tamed panther of fashionable life. “What an interesting thing
                        civilisation is!” he thought, watching her every movement with the eyes of
                        the imagination; “why, you might spend years among the wild folk of the
                        Maremma without meeting such a tremendous, terrible, picturesque, powerful
                        creature as this!”
                    Cecchino was so absorbed in the Baroness Fosca, who was in reality not at all
                        a Lucretia Borgia, but merely an impatient lady bent upon amusing and being
                        amused, that he was scarcely conscious of the presence of her companion. He
                        knew that she was very young, very pretty,
                        and very smart, and that he had made her his best bow, and offered her his
                        least rickety chair; for the rest, he sat opposite to his Lucretia Borgia of
                        modern life, who had meanwhile found a cigarette, and was puffing away and
                        explaining that she was about to give a fancy ball, which should be the most
                            crâne, the only amusing thing, of the
                        year.
                    “Oh,” he exclaimed, kindling at the thought, “do let me design you a dress
                        all black and white and wicked green—you shall go as Deadly Nightshade, as
                        Belladonna Atropa—”
                    “Belladonna Atropa! why my ball is in comic costume” .... The Baroness was
                        answering contemptuously, when Cecchino's attention was suddenly called to
                        the other end of the studio by an exclamation on the part of his other
                        visitor.
                    “Do tell me all about her;—has she a name? Is she really a lunatic?” asked
                        the young lady who had been introduced as Madame Krasinska, keeping a
                        portfolio open with one hand, and holding up in the other a coloured sketch
                        she had taken from it.
                    “What have you got there? Oh, only the Sora Lena!” and Madame Fosca reverted
                        to the contemplation of the smoke-rings she was making.
                    
                    “Tell me about her—Sora Lena, did you say?” asked the younger lady
                        eagerly.
                    She spoke French, but with a pretty little American accent, despite her
                        Polish name. She was very charming, Cecchino said to himself, a radiant
                        impersonation of youthful brightness and elegance as she stood there in her
                        long, silvery furs, holding the drawing with tiny, tight-gloved hands, and
                        shedding around her a vague, exquisite fragrance—no, not a mere literal
                        perfume, that would be far too coarse but something personal akin to it.
                    “I have noticed her so often,” she went on, with that silvery young voice of
                        hers; “she's mad, isn't she? And what did you say her name was? Please tell
                        me again.”
                    Cecchino was delighted. “How true it is,” he reflected, “that only
                        refinement, high-breeding, luxury can give people certain kinds of
                        sensitiveness, of rapid intuition! No woman of another class would have
                        picked out just that drawing, or would have been interested in it without
                        stupid laughter.”
                    “Do you want to know the story of poor old Sora Lena?” asked Cecchino, taking
                        the sketch from Madame Krasinska's hand, and looking over it at the
                        charming, eager young face.
                    
                    The sketch might have passed for a caricature; but anyone who had spent so
                        little as a week in Florence those six or seven years ago would have
                        recognised at once that it was merely a faithful portrait. For Sora
                        Lena—more correctly Signora Maddalena—had been for years and years one of
                        the most conspicuous sights of the town. In all weathers you might have seen
                        that hulking old woman, with her vague, staring, reddish face, trudging
                        through the streets or standing before shops, in her extraordinary costume
                        of thirty years ago, her enormous crinoline, on which the silk skirt and
                        ragged petticoat hung limply, her gigantic coal-scuttle bonnet, shawl,
                        prunella boots, and great muff or parasol; one of several outfits, all
                        alike, of that distant period, all alike inexpressibly dirty and tattered.
                        In all weathers you might have seen her stolidly going her way, indifferent
                        to stares and jibes, of which, indeed, there were by this time comparatively
                        few, so familiar had she grown to staring, jibing Florence. In all weathers,
                        but most noticeably in the worst, as if the squalor of mud and rain had an
                        affinity with that sad, draggled, soiled, battered piece of human squalor,
                        that lamentable rag of half-witted misery.
                    “Do you want to know about Sora Lena?” 
                            re-
                            repeated
                         peated Cecco Bandini,
                        meditatively. They formed a strange, strange contrast, these two women, the
                        one in the sketch and the one standing before him. And there was to him a
                        pathetic whimsicalness in the interest which the one had excited in the
                        other. “How long has she been wandering about here? Why, as long as I can
                        remember the streets of Florence, and that,” added Cecchino sorrowfully, “is
                        a longer while than I care to count up. It seems to me as if she must always
                        have been there, like the olive-trees and the paving stones; for after all,
                        Giotto's tower was not there before Giotto, whereas poor old Sora Lena— But,
                        by the way, there is a 1imit even to her. There is a legend about her; they
                        say that she was once sane, and had two sons, who went as Volunteers in '59,
                        and were killed at Solferino, and ever since then she has sallied forth,
                        every day, winter or summer, in her best clothes, to meet the young fellows
                        at the Station. May be. To my mind it doesn't matter much whether the story
                        be true or false; it is fitting,” and Cecco Bandini set about dusting some
                        canvases which had attracted the Baroness Fosca's attention. When Cecchino
                        was helping that lady into her furs, she gave one of her little brutal
                        smiles, and nodded in the direction of her companion.
                    
                    “Madame Krasinska,” she said laughing, “is very desirous of possessing one of
                        your sketches, but she is too polite to ask you the price of it. That's what
                        comes of our not knowing how to earn a penny for ourselves, doesn't it,
                        Signor Cecchino?”
                    Madame Krasinska blushed, and looked more young, and delicate, and
                        charming.
                    “I did not know whether you would consent to part with one of your drawings,”
                        she said in her silvery, child-like voice,—“it is—this one—which I should so
                        much have liked to have—...... to have .... bought.” Cecchino smiled at the
                        embarrassment which the word “bought” produced in his exquisite visitor.
                        Poor, charming young creature, he thought; the only thing she thinks people
                        one knows can sell, is themselves, and that's called getting married. “You
                        must explain to your friend,” said Cecchino to the Baroness Fosca, as he
                        hunted in a drawer for a piece of clean paper, “that such rubbish as this is
                        neither bought nor sold; it is not even possible for a poor devil of a
                        painter to offer it as a gift to a lady—but,”—and he handed the little roll
                        to Madame Krasinska, making his very best bow as he did so—“it is possible
                        for a lady graciously to accept it.”
                    
                    “Thank you so much,” answered Madame Krasinska, slipping the drawing into her
                        muff; “it is very good of you to give me such a ...... such a very
                        interesting sketch,” and she pressed his big, brown fingers in her little
                        grey-gloved hand.
                    “Poor Sora Lena!” exclaimed Cecchino, when there remained of the visit only a
                        faint perfume of exquisiteness; and he thought of the hideous old
                        draggle-tailed mad woman, reposing, rolled up in effigy, in the delicious
                        daintiness of that delicate grey muff.
                
                
                
                    II.
                    A FORTNIGHT later, the great event was Madame Fosca's fancy ball, to
                        which the guests were bidden to come in what was described as comic costume.
                        Some, however, craved leave to appear in their ordinary apparel, and among
                        these was Cecchino Bandini, who was persuaded, moreover, that his
                        old-fashioned swallow-tails, which he donned only at weddings, constituted
                        quite comic costume enough.
                    This knowledge did not interfere at all with his enjoyment. There was even,
                        to his whimsical mind, a certain charm in being in a crowd among which he
                        knew no one; unnoticed or confused, perhaps, with the waiters, as he hung
                        about the stairs and strolled through the big palace rooms. It was as good
                        as wearing an invisible cloak, one saw so much just because one was not
                        seen; indeed, one was momentarily endowed (it seemed at least to his
                        fanciful apprehension) with a faculty akin to that of understanding the talk
                        of birds; and, as he watched and listened
                        he became aware of innumerable charming little romances, which were
                        concealed from more notable but less privileged persons.
                    Little by little the big white and gold rooms began to fill. The ladies, who
                        had moved in gorgeous isolation, their skirts displayed as finely as a
                        peacock's train, became gradually visible only from the waist upwards; and
                        only the branches of the palm-trees and tree ferns detached themselves
                        against the shining walls. Instead of wandering among variegated brocades
                        and iridescent silks and astonishing arrangements of feathers and flowers,
                        Cecchino's eye was forced to a higher level by the thickening crowd; it was
                        now the constellated sparkle of diamonds on neck and head which dazzled him,
                        and the strange, unaccustomed splendour of white arms and shoulders. And, as
                        the room filled, the invisible cloak was also drawn closer round our friend
                        Cecchino, and the extraordinary faculty of perceiving romantic and delicious
                        secrets in other folk's bosoms became more and more developed. They seemed
                        to him like exquisite children, these creatures rustling about in fantastic
                        dresses, powdered shepherds and shepherdesses with diamonds spirting fire
                        among their ribbons and top-knots; Japanese and Chinese embroidered with sprays of flowers; mediæval and antique
                        beings, and beings hidden in the plumage of birds, or the petals of flowers;
                        children, but children somehow matured, transfigured by the touch of luxury
                        and good-breeding, children full of courtesy and kindness. There were, of
                        course, a few costumes which might have been better conceived or better
                        carried out, or better—not to say best—omitted altogether. One grew bored,
                        after a little while, with people dressed as marionettes, champagne bottles,
                        sticks of sealing-wax, or captive balloons; a young man arrayed as a female
                        ballet dancer, and another got up as a wet nurse, with baby obligato might certainly have been dispensed
                        with. Also, Cecchino could not help wincing a little at the daughter of the
                        house being mummed and painted to represent her own grandmother, a
                        respectable old lady whose picture hung in the dining-room, and whose
                        spectacles he had frequently picked up in his boyhood. But these were mere
                        trifling details. And, as a whole, it was beautiful, fantastic. So Cecchino
                        moved backward and forward, invisible in his shabby black suit, and borne
                        hither and thither by the well-bred pressure of the many-coloured crowd;
                        pleasantly blinded by the innumerable lights, the sparkle of chandelier
                        pendants, and the shooting flames of jewels; gently deafened by the confused murmur of innumerable voices, of
                        crackling stuffs and soughing fans, of distant dance music; and inhaling the
                        vague fragrance which seemed less the decoction of cunning perfumers than
                        the exquisite and expressive emanation of this exquisite bloom of
                        personality. Certainly, he said to himself, there is no pleasure so
                        delicious as seeing people amusing themselves with refinement: there is a
                        transfiguring magic, almost a moralising power, in wealth and elegance and
                        good-breeding.
                    He was making this reflection, and watching between two dances, a tiny fluff
                        of down sailing through the warm draught across the empty space, the sort of
                        whirlpool of the ball-room—when a little burst of voices came from the
                        entrance saloon. The multi-coloured costumes fluttered like butterflies
                        toward a given spot, there was a little heaping together of brilliant
                        colours and flashing jewels. There was much craning of delicate, fluffy
                        young necks and heads, and shuffle on tip-toe, and the crowd fell
                        automatically aside. A little gangway was cleared; and there walked into the
                        middle of the white and gold drawing-room, a lumbering, hideous figure, with
                        reddish, vacant face, sunk in an immense, tarnished satin bonnet; and
                        draggled, faded, lilac silk skirts spread over a vast dislocated crinoline. The feet dabbed along in the broken
                        prunella boots; the mangy rabbit-skin muff bobbed loosely with the shambling
                        gait; and then, under the big chandelier, there came a sudden pause, and the
                        thing looked slowly round, a gaping, mooning, blear-eyed stare.
                    It was the Sora Lena.
                    There was a perfect storm of applause.
                
                
                
                    III.
                    CECCHINO BANDINI did not slacken his pace till he found himself,
                        with his thin overcoat and opera hat all drenched, among the gas reflections
                        and puddles before his studio door; that shout of applause and that burst of
                        clapping pursuing him down the stairs of the palace and all through the
                        rainy streets. There were a few embers in his stove; he threw a faggot on
                        them, lit a cigarette, and proceeded to make reflections, the wet opera hat
                        still on his head. He had been a fool, a savage. He had behaved like a
                        child, rushing past his hostess with that ridiculous speech in answer to her
                        inquiries: “I am running away because bad luck has entered your house.”
                    Why had he not guessed it at once? What on earth else could she have wanted
                        his sketch for?
                    He determined to forget the matter, and, as he imagined, he forgot it. Only,
                        when the next day's evening paper displayed two columns describing Madame
                        Fosca's ball, and more particularly “that
                        mask,” as the reporter had it, “which among so many which were graceful and
                        ingenious, bore off in triumph the palm for witty novelty,” he threw the
                        paper down and gave it a kick towards the wood-box. But he felt ashamed of
                        himself, picked it up, smoothed it out and read it all—foreign news and home
                        news, and even the description of Madame Fosca's masked ball,
                        conscientiously through. Last of all he perused, with dogged resolution, the
                        column of petty casualties: a boy bit in the calf by a dog who was not mad;
                        the frustrated burgling of a baker's shop; even to the bunches of keys and
                        the umbrella and two cigar-cases picked up by the police, and consigned to
                        the appropriate municipal limbo; until he came to the following lines: “This
                        morning the Guardians of Public Safety, having been called by
                        the neighbouring inhabitants, penetrated into a room on the top floor of a
                        house situate in the Little Street of the Gravedigger (Viccolo del
                        Beccamorto), and discovered, hanging from a rafter, the dead body of
                        Maddalena X.Y.Z. The deceased had long been noted throughout Florence for
                        her eccentric habits and apparel.” The paragraph was headed, in somewhat
                        larger type: “Suicide of a female lunatic.”
                    Cecchino's cigarette had gone out, but he 
                            con-
                            continued
                         tinued blowing at it all the
                        same. He could see in his mind's eye a tall, slender figure, draped in
                        silvery plush and silvery furs, standing by the side of an open portfolio,
                        and holding a drawing in her tiny hand, with the slender, solitary gold
                        bangle over the grey glove.
                
                
                
                    IV.
                    MADAME KRASINSKA was in a very bad humour. The old Chanoiness, her
                        late husband's aunt, noticed it; her guests noticed it; her maid noticed it:
                        and she noticed it herself. For, of all human beings, Madame
                        Krasinska—Netta, as smart folk familiarly called her—was the least subject
                        to bad humour. She was as uniformly cheerful as birds are supposed to be,
                        and she certainly had none of the causes for anxiety or sorrow which even
                        the most proverbial bird must occasionally have. She had always had money,
                        health, good looks; and people had always told her—in New York, in London,
                        in Paris, Rome, and St. Petersburg—from her very earliest childhood, that
                        her one business in life was to amuse herself. The old gentleman whom she
                        had simply and cheerfully accepted as a husband, because he had given her
                        quantities of bonbons, and was going to give her quantities of diamonds, had
                        been kind, and had been kindest of all in dying of sudden bronchitis when away for a month, leaving his young
                        widow with an affectionately indifferent recollection of him, no remorse of
                        any kind, and a great deal of money, not to speak of the excellent
                        Chanoiness, who constituted an invaluable chaperon. And, since his happy
                        demise, no cloud had disturbed the cheerful life or feelings of Madame
                        Krasinska. Other women, she knew, had innumerable subjects of wretchedness;
                        or if they had none, they were wretched from the want of them. Some had
                        children who made them unhappy, others were unhappy for lack of children,
                        and similarly as to lovers; but she had never had a child and never had a
                        lover, and never experienced the smallest desire for either. Other women
                        suffered from sleeplessness, or from sleepiness, and took morphia or
                        abstained from morphia with equal inconvenience; other women also grew weary
                        of amusement. But Madame Krasinska always slept beautifully, and always
                        stayed awake cheerfully; and Madame Krasinska was never tired of amusing
                        herself. Perhaps it was all this which culminated in the fact that Madame
                        Krasinska had never in all her life envied or disliked anybody; and that no
                        one, apparently, had ever envied or disliked her. She did not wish to
                        outshine or supplant any one; she did not
                        want to be richer, younger, more beautiful, or more adored than they. She
                        only wanted to amuse herself, and she succeeded in so doing.
                    This particular day—the day after Madame Fosca's ball—Madame Krasinska was
                        not amusing herself. She was not at all tired: she never was; besides, she
                        had remained in bed till mid-day: neither was she unwell, for that also she
                        never was; nor had anyone done the slightest thing to vex her. But there it
                        was. She was not amusing herself at all. She could not tell why; and she
                        could not tell why, also, she was vaguely miserable. When the first batch of
                        afternoon callers had taken leave, and the following batches had been sent
                        away from the door, she threw down her volume of Gyp, and walked to the
                        window. It was raining: a thin, continuous spring drizzle. Only a few cabs,
                        with wet, shining backs, an occasional lumbering omnibus or cart, passed by
                        with wheezing, straining, downcast horses. In one or two shops a light was
                        appearing, looking tiny, blear, and absurd in the gray afternoon. Madame
                        Krasinska looked out for a few minutes; then, suddenly turning round, she
                        brushed past the big palms and azaleas, and rang the bell.
                    “Order the brougham at once,” she said.
                    
                    She could by no means have explained what earthly reason had impelled her to
                        go out. When the footman had inquired for orders she felt at a loss:
                        certainly she did not want to go to see anyone, nor to buy anything, nor to
                        inquire about anything.
                    What did she want? Madame Krasinska was not in the habit of
                        driving out in the rain for her pleasure; still less to drive out without
                        knowing whither. What did she want? She sat muffled in her furs, looking out
                        on the wet, grey streets as the brougham rolled aimlessly along. She
                        wanted—she wanted—she couldn't tell what. But she wanted it very much. That
                        much she knew very well—she wanted. The rain, the wet streets, the muddy
                        crossings—oh, how dismal they were! and still she wished to go on.
                    Instinctively, her polite coachman made for the politer streets, for the
                        polite Lung' Arno. The river quay was deserted, and a warm, wet wind swept
                        lazily along its muddy flags. Madame Krasinska let down the glass. How
                        dreary! The foundry, on the other side, let fly a few red sparks from its
                        tall chimney into the grey sky; the water droned over the weir; a
                        lamp-lighter hurried along.
                    Madame Krasinska pulled the check-string.
                    “I want to walk,” she said.
                    
                    The polite footman followed behind along the messy flags, muddy and full of
                        pools; the brougham followed behind him. Madame Krasinska was not at all in
                        the habit of walking on the embankment, still less walking in the rain.
                    After some minutes she got in again, and bade the carriage drive home. When
                        she got into the lit streets she again pulled the check-string and ordered
                        the brougham to proceed at a foot's pace. At a certain spot she remembered
                        something, and bade the coachman draw up before a shop. It was the big
                        chemist's.
                    “What does the Signora Contessa command?” and the footman raised his hat over
                        his ear. Somehow she had forgotten. “Oh,” she answered, “wait a minute. Now
                        I remember, it's the next shop, the florist's. Tell them to send fresh
                        azaleas to-morrow and fetch away the old ones.”
                    Now the azaleas had been changed only that morning. But the polite footman
                        obeyed. And Madame Krasinska remained for a minute, nestled in her fur rug,
                        looking on to the wet, yellow, lit pavement, and into the big chemist's
                        window. There were the red, heart-shaped chest protectors, the frictioning
                        gloves, the bath towels, all hanging in their place. Then boxes of eau-de-Cologne, lots of bottles of all
                        sizes, and boxes, large and small, and variosities ot indescribable nature
                        and use, and the great glass jars, yellow, blue, green, and ruby red, with a
                        spark from the gas lamp behind in their heart. She stared at it all, very
                        intently, and without a notion about any of these objects. Only she knew
                        that the glass jars were uncommonly bright, and that each had a ruby, or
                        topaz, or emerald of gigantic size, in its heart. The footman returned.
                    “Drive home,” ordered Madame Krasinska. As her maid was taking her out of her
                        dress, a thought—the first since so long—flashed across her mind, at the
                        sight of certain skirts, and an uncouth cardboard mask, lying in a corner of
                        her dressing-room. How odd that she had not seen the Sora Lena that
                        evening... She used always to be walking in the lit streets at that
                        hour.
                
                
                
                    V.
                    THE next morning Madame Krasinska woke up quite cheerful and happy.
                        But she began, nevertheless, to suffer, ever since the day after the Fosca
                        ball, from the return of that quite unprecedented and inexplicable
                        depression. Her days became streaked, as it were, with moments during which
                        it was quite impossible to amuse herself; and these moments grew gradually
                        into hours. People bored her for no accountable reason, and things which she
                        had expected as pleasures brought with them a sense of vague or more
                        distinct wretchedness. Thus she would find herself in the midst of a ball or
                        dinner-party, invaded suddenly by a confused sadness or boding of evil, she
                        did not know which. And once, when a box of new clothes had arrived from
                        Paris, she was overcome, while putting on one of the frocks, with such a fit
                        of tears that she had to be put to bed instead of going to the Tornabuoni's
                        party.
                    Of course, people began to notice this change; indeed, Madame Krasinska had ingenuously
                        complained of the strange alteration in herself. Some persons suggested that
                        she might be suffering from slow blood-poisoning, and urged an inquiry into
                        the state of the drains. Others recommended arsenic, morphia, or antipyrine.
                        One kind friend brought her a box of peculiar cigarettes; another forwarded
                        a parcel of still more peculiar novels; most people had some pet doctor to
                        cry up to the skies; and one or two suggested her changing her confessor;
                        not to mention an attempt being made to mesmerise her into cheerfulness.
                    When her back was turned, meanwhile, all the kind friends discussed the
                        probability of an unhappy love affair, loss of money on the Stock Exchange,
                        and similar other explanations. And while one devoted lady tried to worm out
                        of her the name of her unfaithful lover and of the rival for whom he had
                        forsaken her, another assured her that she was suffering from a lack of
                        personal affections. It was a fine opportunity for the display of pietism,
                        materialism, idealism, realism, psychological lore, and esoteric
                        theosophy.
                    Oddly enough, all this zeal about herself did not worry Madame Krasinska, as
                        she would certainly have expected it to worry any other woman. She took a little of each of the tonic or
                        soporific drugs; and read a little of each of those sickly sentimental,
                        brutal, or politely improper novels. She also let herself be accompanied to
                        various doctors; and she got up early in the morning and stood for an hour
                        on a chair in a crowd in order to benefit by the preaching of the famous
                        Father Agostino. She was quite patient even with the friends who condoled
                        about the lover or absence of such. For all these things became, more and
                        more, completely indifferent to Madame Krasinska—unrealities which had no
                        weight in the presence of the painful reality.
                    This reality was that she was rapidly losing all power of amusing herself,
                        and that when she did occasionally amuse herself she had to pay for what she
                        called this good time by an increase of listlessness and
                        melancholy.
                    It was not melancholy or listlessness such as other women complained of. They
                        seemed, in their fits of blues, to feel that the world around them had got
                        all wrong, or at least was going out of its way to annoy them. But Madame
                        Krasinska saw the world quite plainly, proceeding in the usual manner, and
                        being quite as good a world as before. It was she who was all wrong. It was,
                        in the literal sense of the words, what
                        she supposed people might mean when they said that So-and-so was not
                            himself; only that So-and-so, on examination, appeared to be very
                        much himself—only himself in a worse temper than usual. Whereas she... Why,
                        in her case, she really did not seem to be herself any longer. Once, at a
                        grand dinner, she suddenly ceased eating and talking to her neighbour, and
                        surprised herself wondering who the people all were and what they had come
                        for. Her mind would become, every now and then, a blank; a blank at least
                        full of vague images, misty and muddled, which she was unable to grasp, but
                        of which she knew that they were painful, weighing on her as a heavy load
                        must weigh on the head or back. Something had happened, or was
                        going to happen, she could not remember which, but she burst into tears none
                        the less. In the midst of such a state of things, if visitors or a servant
                        entered, she would ask sometimes who they were. Once a man came to call,
                        during one of these fits; by an effort she was able to receive him and
                        answer his small talk more or less at random, feeling the whole time as if
                        someone else were speaking in her place. The visitor at length rose to
                        depart, and they both stood for a moment in the midst of the
                        drawing-room.
                    
                    “This is a very pretty house; it must belong to some rich person. Do you know
                        to whom it belongs?” suddenly remarked Madame Krasinska, looking slowly
                        round her at the furniture, the pictures, statuettes, nicknacks, the screens
                        and plants. “Do you know to whom it belongs?” she repeated.
                    “It belongs to the most charming lady in Florence,” stammered out the visitor
                        politely, and fled.
                    “My darling Netta,” exclaimed the Chanoiness from where she was seated
                        crocheting benevolently futile garments by the fire; “you should not joke in
                        that way. That poor young man was placed in a painful, in a very painful
                        position by your nonsense.”
                    Madame Krasinska leaned her arms on a screen, and stared her respectable
                        relation long in the face.
                    “You seem a kind woman,” she said at length. “You are old, but then you
                        aren't poor, and they don't call you a mad woman. That makes all the
                        difference.”
                    Then she set to singing—drumming out the tune on the screen—the soldier song
                        of '59, Addio, mia bella, addio.
                    “Netta!” cried the Chanoiness, dropping one ball of worsted after another.
                        “Netta!”
                    
                    But Madame Krasinska passed her hand over her brow and heaved a great sigh.
                        Then she took a cigarette off a cloisonné tray, dipped a spill in the fire
                        and remarked,
                    “Would you like to have the brougham to go to see your friend at the Sacré
                        Cœur, Aunt Thérèse? I have promised to wait in for Molly Wolkonsky and Bice
                        Forteguerra. We are going to dine at Doney's with young Pomfret.”
                
                
                
                    VI.
                    MADAME KRASINSKA had repeated her evening drives in the rain. Indeed
                        she began also to walk about regardless of weather. Her maid asked her
                        whether she had been ordered exercise by the doctor, and she answered yes.
                        But why she should not walk in the Cascine or along the Lung' Arno, and why
                        she should always choose the muddiest thoroughfares, the maid did not
                        inquire. As it was, Madame Krasinska never showed any repugnance or seemly
                        contrition for the state of draggle in which she used to return home;
                        sometimes when the woman was unbuttoning her boots, she would remain in
                        contemplation of their muddiness, murmuring things which Jefferies could not
                        understand. The servants, indeed, declared that the Countess must have gone
                        out of her mind. The footman related that she used to stop the brougham, get
                        out and look into the lit shops, and that he had to stand behind, in order
                        to prevent lady-killing youths of a caddish description from whispering
                        expressions of admiration in her ear. And once, he affirmed with horror, she had stopped in front of
                        a certain cheap eating-house, and looked in at the bundles of asparagus, at
                        the uncooked chops displayed in the window. And then, added the footman, she
                        had turned round to him slowly and said,
                    “They have good food in there.”
                    And meanwhile, Madame Krasinska went to dinners and parties, and gave them,
                        and organised picnics, as much as was decently possible in Lent, and indeed
                        a great deal more.
                    She no longer complained of the blues; she assured everyone that she had
                        completely got rid of them, that she had never been in such spirits in all
                        her life. She said it so often, and in so excited a way, that judicious
                        people declared that now that lover must really have jilted her, or gambling
                        on the Stock Exchange have brought her to the verge of ruin.
                    Nay, Madame Krasinska's spirits became so obstreperous as to change her in
                        sundry ways. Although living in the fastest set, Madame Krasinska had never
                        been a fast woman. There was something childlike in her nature which made
                        her modest and decorous. She had never learned to talk slang, or to take up
                        vulgar attitudes, or to tell impossible stories; and she had never lost a
                        silly habit of blushing at 
                            expres-
                            expressions
                         sions and anecdotes which she
                        did not reprove other women for using and relating. Her amusements had never
                        been flavoured with that spice of impropriety, of curiosity of evil, which
                        was common in her set. She liked putting on pretty frocks, arranging pretty
                        furniture, driving in well got up carriages, eating good dinners, laughing a
                        great deal, and dancing a great deal, and that was all.
                    But now Madame Krasinska suddenly altered. She became, all of a sudden,
                        anxious for those exotic sensations which honest women may get by studying
                        the ways, and frequenting the haunts, of women by no means honest. She made
                        up parties to go to the low theatres and music-halls; she proposed dressing
                        up and going, in company with sundry adventurous spirits, for evening
                        strolls in the more dubious portions of the town. Moreover, she, who had
                        never touched a card, began to gamble for large sums, and to surprise people
                        by producing a folded green roulette cloth and miniature roulette rakes out
                        of her pocket. And she became so outrageously conspicuous in her flirtations
                        (she who had never flirted before), and so outrageously loud in her manners
                        and remarks, that her good friends began to venture a little
                        remonstrance....
                    
                    But remonstrance was all in vain; and she would toss her head and laugh
                        cynically, and answer in a brazen, jarring voice.
                    For Madame Krasinska felt that she must live, live noisily, live
                        scandalously, live her own life of wealth and dissipation, because...
                    She used to wake up at night with the horror of that suspicion. And in the
                        middle of the day, pull at her clothes, tear down her hair, and rush to the
                        mirror and stare at herself, and look for every feature, and clutch for
                        every end of silk, or bit of lace, or wisp of hair, which proved that she
                        was really herself. For gradually, slowly, she had come to understand that
                        she was herself no longer.
                    Herself—well, yes, of course she was herself. Was it not herself who rushed
                        about in such a riot of amusement; herself whose flushed cheeks and
                        over-bright eyes, and cynically flaunted neck and bosom she saw in the
                        glass, whose mocking loud voice and shrill laugh she listened to? Besides,
                        did not her servants, her visitors, know her as Netta Krasinska; and did she
                        not know how to wear her clothes, dance, make jokes, and encourage men,
                        afterwards to discourage them? This, she often said to herself, as she lay
                        awake the long nights, as she sat out the longer nights gambling and chaffing, distinctly proved
                        that she really was herself. And she repeated it all mentally when she
                        returned, muddy, worn out, and as awakened from a ghastly dream, after one
                        of her long rambles through the streets, her daily walks towards the
                        station.
                    But still... What of those strange forebodings of evil, those muddled fears
                        of some dreadful calamity ... something which had happened, or was going to
                        happen ... poverty, starvation, death—whose death, her own? or someone
                        else's? That knowledge that it was all, all over; that blinding, felling
                        blow which used every now and then to crush her... Yes, she had felt that
                        first at the railway station. At the station? but what had happened at the
                        station? Or was it going to happen still? Since to the station her feet
                        seemed unconsciously to carry her every day. What was it all? Ah! she knew.
                        There was a woman, an old woman, walking to the station to meet... Yes, to
                        meet a regiment on its way back. They came back, those soldiers, among a mob
                        yelling triumph. She remembered the illuminations, the red, green, and white
                        lanterns, and those garlands all over the waiting-rooms. And quantities of
                        flags. The bands played. So gaily! They played Garibaldi's hymn, and Addio, Mia Bella. Those
                        pieces always made her cry now. The station was crammed, and all the boys,
                        in tattered, soiled uniforms, rushed into the arms of parents, wives,
                        friends. Then there was like a blinding light, a crash... An officer led the
                        old woman gently out of the place, mopping his eyes. And she, of all the
                        crowd, was the only one to go home alone. Had it really all happened? and to
                        whom? Had it really happened to her, had her boys.... But Madame Krasinska
                        had never had any boys.
                    It was dreadful how much it rained in Florence and stuff boots do wear out so
                        quick in mud. There was such a lot of mud on the way to the station; but of
                        course it was necessary to go to the station in order to meet the train from
                        Lombardy—the boys must be met.
                    There was a place on the other side of the river where you went in and handed
                        your watch and your brooch over the counter, and they gave you some money
                        and a paper. Once the paper got lost. Then there was a mattress, too. But
                        there was a kind man—a man who sold hardware—who went and fetched it back.
                        It was dreadfully cold in winter, but the worst was the rain. And having no
                        watch one was afraid of being late for
                        that train, and had to dawdle so long in the muddy streets. Of course one
                        could look in at the pretty shops. But the little boys were so rude. Oh, no,
                        no, not that—anything rather than be shut up in an hospital. The poor old
                        woman did no one any harm—why shut her up?
                    “Faites votre jeu, messieurs,” cried Madame
                        Krasinska, raking up the counters with the little rake she had had made of
                        tortoise-shell, with a gold dragon's head for a handle—“Rien ne va plus—vingt-trois—Rouge, inmpair et
                            manique.”
                
                
                
                    VII.
                    HOW did she come to know about this woman? She had never been inside
                        that house over the tobacconist's, up three pairs of stairs to the left; and
                        yet she knew exactly the pattern of the wall-paper. It was green, with a
                        pinkish trellis-work, in the grand sitting-room, the one which was opened
                        only on Sunday evenings, when the friends used to drop in and discuss the
                        news, and have a game of tresette. You
                        passed through the dining-room to get through it. The dining-room had no
                        window, and was lit from a skylight; there was always a little smell of
                        dinner in it, but that was appetising. The boys' rooms were to the back.
                        There was a plaster Joan of Arc in the hall, close to the clothes-peg. She
                        was painted to look like silver, and one of the boys had broken her arm, so
                        that it looked like a gas-pipe. It was Momino who had done it, jumping on to
                        the table when they were playing. Momino was always the scapegrace; he wore
                        out so many pairs of trousers at the
                        knees, but he was so warm-hearted! and after all, he had got all the prizes
                        at school, and they all said he would be a first-rate engineer. Those dear
                        boys! They never cost their mother a farthing, once they were sixteen; and
                        Momino bought her a big, beautiful muff out of his own earnings as a
                        pupil-teacher. Here it is! Such a comfort in the cold weather, you can't
                        think, especially when gloves are too dear. Yes, it is rabbit-skin, but it
                        is made to look like ermine, quite a handsome article. Assunta, the maid of
                        all work, never would clean out that kitchen of hers—servants are such
                        sluts! and she tore the moreen sofa-cover, too, against a nail in the wall.
                        She ought to have seen that nail! But one mustn't be too hard on a poor
                        creature, who is an orphan into the bargain. Oh, God! oh, God! and they lie
                        in the big trench at San Martino, without even a cross over them, or a bit
                        of wood with their name. But the white coats of the Austrians were soaked
                        red, I warrant you! And the new dye they call magenta is made of
                        pipe-clay—the pipe-clay the dogs clean their white coats with—and the blood
                        of Austrians. It's a grand dye, I tell you!
                    Lord, Lord, how wet the poor old woman's feet are! And no fire to warm them
                        by. The best is to go to bed when one
                        can't dry one's clothes; and it saves lamp-oil. That was very good oil the
                        parish priest made her a present of ... Aï, aï, how one's bones ache on the
                        mere boards, even with a blanket over them! That good, good mattress at the
                        pawn-shop! It's nonsense about the Italians having been beaten. The
                        Austrians were beaten into bits, made cats'-meat of; and the volunteers are
                        returning tomorrow. Temistocle and Momino-Momino is Girolamo, you know—will
                        be back to-morrow; their rooms have been cleaned, and they shall have a
                        flask of real Montepulciano... The big bottles in the chemist's window are
                        very beautiful, particularly the green one. The shop where they sell gloves
                        and scarfs is also very pretty; but the English chemist's is the prettiest,
                        because of those bottles. But they say the contents of them is all rubbish,
                        and no real medicine... Don't speak of San Bonifazio! I have seen it. It is
                        where they keep the mad folk and the wretched, dirty, wicked, wicked old
                        women... There was a handsome book bound in red, with gold edges, on the
                        best sitting-room table; the Æneid, translated by Caro. It was one of
                        Temistocle's prizes. And that Berlin-wool cushion .... yes, the little dog
                        with the cherries looked quite real....
                    
                    “I have been thinking I should like to go to Sicily, to see Etna, and
                        Palermo, and all those places,” said Madame Krasinska, leaning on the
                        balcony by the side of Prince Mongibello, smoking her fifth or sixth
                        cigarette.
                    She could see the hateful hooked nose, like a nasty hawk's beak, over the big
                        black beard, and the creature's leering, languishing black eyes, as he
                        looked up into the twilight. She knew quite well what sort of man Mongibello
                        was. No woman could approach him, or allow him to approach her; and there
                        she was on that balcony alone with him in the dark, far from the rest of the
                        party, who were dancing and talking within. And to talk of Sicily to him,
                        who was a Sicilian too! But that was what she wanted—a scandal, a horror,
                        anything that might deaden those thoughts which would go on inside her....
                        The thought of that strange, lofty whitewashed place, which she had never
                        seen, but which she knew so well, with an altar in the middle, and rows and
                        rows of beds, each with its set-out of bottles and baskets, and horrid
                        slobbering and gibbering old women. Oh ... she could hear them!
                    “I should like to go to Sicily,” she said in a tone that was now common to
                        her, adding slowly and with emphasis, “but
                        I should like to have someone show me all the sights....”
                    “Countess,” and the black beard of the creature bent over her—close to her
                        neck—“how strange—I also feel a great longing to see Sicily once more, but
                        not alone—those lovely, lonely valleys....”
                    Ah!—there was one of the creatures who had sat up in her bed and was singing,
                        singing “Casta Diva!” “No, not alone”—she went on hurriedly, a sort of fury
                        of satisfaction, of the satisfaction of destroying something, destroying her
                        own fame, her own life, filling her as she felt the man's hand on her
                        arm—“not alone, Prince—with someone to explain things—someone who knows all
                        about it—and in this lovely spring weather. You see, I am a bad
                        traveller—and I am afraid ... of being alone...” The last words came out of
                        her throat loud, hoarse, and yet cracked and shrill—and just as the Prince's
                        arm was going to clasp her, she rushed wildly into the room, exclaiming—
                    “Ah, I am she—I am she—I am mad!”
                    For in that sudden voice, so different from her own, Madame Krasinska had
                        recognised the voice that should have issued from the cardboard mask she had
                        once worn, the voice of Sora Lena.
                
                
                
                    VIII.
                    YES, Cecchino certainly recognised her now. Strolling about in that
                        damp May twilight among the old, tortuous streets, he had mechanically
                        watched the big black horses draw up at the posts which closed that
                        labyrinth of black, narrow alleys; the servant in his white waterproof
                        opened the door, and the tall, slender woman got out and walked quickly
                        along. And mechanically, in his wool-gathering way, he had followed the
                        lady, enjoying the charming note of delicate pink and grey which her little
                        frock made against those black houses, and under that wet, grey sky,
                        streaked pink with the sunset. She walked quickly along, quite alone, having
                        left the footman with the carriage at the entrance of that condemned old
                        heart of Florence; and she took no notice of the stares and words of the
                        boys playing in the gutters, the pedlars housing their barrows under the
                        black archways, and the women leaning out of window. Yes; there was no
                        doubt. It had struck him suddenly as he
                        watched her pass under a double arch and into a kind of large court, not
                        unlike that of a castle, between the frowning tall houses of the old Jews'
                        quarter; houses escutcheoned and stanchioned, once the abode of Ghibelline
                        nobles, now given over to rag-pickers, scavengers and unspeakable
                        trades.
                    As soon as he recognised her he stopped, and was about to turn: what business
                        has a man following a lady, prying into her doings when she goes out at
                        twilight, with carriage and footman left several streets back, quite alone
                        through unlikely streets? And Cecchino, who by this time was on the point of
                        returning to the Maremma, and had come to the conclusion that civilisation
                        was a boring and loathsome thing, reflected upon the errands which French
                        novels described ladies as performing, when they left their carriage and
                        footman round the corner... But the thought was disgraceful to Cecchino, and
                        unjust to this lady—no, no! And at this moment he stopped, for the lady had
                        stopped a few paces before him, and was staring fixedly into the grey
                        evening sky. There was something strange in that stare; it was not that of a
                        woman who is hiding disgraceful proceedings. And in staring round she must
                            have seen him; yet she stood still,
                        like one wrapped in wild thoughts. Then suddenly she passed under the next
                        archway, and disappeared in the dark passage of a house. Somehow Cecco
                        Bandini could not make up his mind, as he ought to have done long ago, to
                        turn back. He slowly passed through the oozy, ill-smelling archway, and
                        stood before that house. It was very tall, narrow, and black as ink, with a
                        jagged roof against the wet, pinkish sky. From the iron hook, made to hold
                        brocades and Persian carpets on gala days of old, fluttered some rags,
                        obscene and ill-omened in the wind. Many of the window panes were broken. It
                        was evidently one of the houses which the municipality had condemned to
                        destruction for sanitary reasons, and whence the inmates were gradually
                        being evicted.
                    “That's a house they're going to pull down, isn't it?” he inquired in a
                        casual tone of the man at the corner, who kept a sort of cookshop, where
                        chestnut pudding and boiled beans steamed on a brazier in a den. Then his
                        eye caught a half-effaced name close to the lamp-post, “Little Street of the
                        Grave-digger.” “Ah,” he added quickly, “this is the street where old Sora
                        Lena committed suicide—and—is—is that the house?”
                    Then, trying to extricate some reasonable idea out of the extraordinary tangle of absurdities which
                        had all of a sudden filled his mind, he fumbled in his pocket for a silver
                        coin, and said hurriedly to the man with the cooking brazier,
                    “See here, that house, I'm sure, isn't well inhabited. That lady has gone
                        there for a charity—but—but one doesn't know that she mayn't be annoyed in
                        there. Here's fifty centimes for your trouble. If that lady doesn't come out
                        again in three-quarters of an hour—there! it's striking seven—just you go
                        round to the stone posts—you'll find her carriage there—black horses and
                        grey liveries—and tell the footman to run upstairs to his
                        mistress—understand?” And Cecchino Bandini fled, overwhelmed at the thought
                        of the indiscretion he was committing, but seeing, as he turned round, those
                        rags waving an ominous salute from the black, gaunt house with its irregular
                        roof against the wet, twilight sky.
                
                
                
                    IX.
                    MADAME KRASINSKA hurried though the long black corridor, with its
                        slippery bricks and typhoid smell, and went slowly but resolutely up the
                        black staircase. Its steps, constructed perhaps in the days of Dante's
                        grandfather, when a horn buckle and leathern belt formed the only ornaments
                        of Florentine dames, were extraordinarily high, and worn off at the edges by
                        innumerable generations of successive nobles and paupers. And as it twisted
                        sharply on itself, the staircase was lighted at rare intervals by barred
                        windows, overlooking alternately the black square outside, with its jags of
                        overhanging roof, and a black yard, where a broken well was surrounded by a
                        heap of half-sorted chickens' feathers and unpicked rags. On the first
                        landing was an open door, partly screened by a line of drying tattered
                        clothes; and whence issued shrill sounds of altercation and snatches of
                        tipsy song. Madame Krasinska passed on heedless of it all, the front of her
                        delicate frock brushing the unseen filth
                        of those black steps, in whose crypt-like cold and gloom there was an
                        ever-growing breath of charnel. Higher and higher, flight after flight,
                        steps and steps. Nor did she look to the right or to the left, nor ever stop
                        to take breath, but climbed upward, slowly, steadily. At length she reached
                        the topmost landing, on to which fell a flickering beam of the setting sun.
                        It issued from a room, whose door was standing wide open. Madame Krasinska
                        entered. The room was completely empty, and comparatively light. There was
                        no furniture in it, except a chair, pushed into a dark corner, and an empty
                        bird-cage at the window. The panes were broken, and here and there had been
                        mended with paper. Paper also hung, in blackened rags, upon the walls.
                    Madame Krasinska walked to the window and looked out over the neighbouring
                        roofs, to where the bell in an old black belfry swung tolling the Ave Maria.
                        There was a porticoed gallery on the top of a house some way off; it had a
                        few plants growing in pipkins, and a drying line. She knew it all so
                        well.
                    On the window-sill was a cracked basin, in which stood a dead basil plant,
                        dry, grey. She looked at it some time, moving the hardened earth with her
                        fingers. Then she turned to the empty bird-cage. Poor solitary starling! how he had whistled to
                        the poor old woman! Then she began to cry.
                    But after a few moments she roused herself. Mechanically, she went to the
                        door and closed it carefully. Then she went straight to the dark corner,
                        where she knew that the staved-in straw chair stood. She dragged it into the
                        middle of the room, where the hook was in the big rafter. She stood on the
                        chair, and measured the height of the ceiling. It was so low that she could
                        graze it with the palm of her hand. She took off her gloves, and then her
                        bonnet—it was in the way of the hook. Then she unclasped her girdle, one of
                        those narrow Russian ribbons of silver woven stuff, studded with niello. She
                        buckled one end firmly to the big hook. Then she unwound the strip of muslin
                        from under her collar. She was standing on the broken chair, just under the
                        rafter. “Pater noster qui es in cælis,” she mumbled, as she still childishly
                        did when putting her head on the pillow every night.
                    The door creaked and opened slowly. The big, hulking woman, with the vague,
                        red face and blear stare, and the rabbit-skin muff, bobbing on her huge
                        crinolined skirts, shambled slowly into the room. It was the Sora Lena.
                
                
                
                    X.
                    WHEN the man from the cook-shop under the archway and the footman
                        entered the room, it was pitch dark. Madame Krasinska was lying in the
                        middle of the floor, by the side of an overturned chair, and under a hook in
                        the rafter whence hung her Russian girdle. When she awoke from her swoon,
                        she looked slowly round the room; then rose, fastened her collar and
                        murmured, crossing herself, “O God, thy mercy is infinite.” The men said
                        that she smiled.
                    Such is the legend of Madame Krasinska, known as Mother Antoinette Marie
                        among the Little Sisters of the Poor.
                
            
            Printed by BALLANTINE, HAMSON & CO Edinburgh and London
        
    
