
     ----CITATION----
        Ward, Humphry, Mrs. (1851-1920). Daphne, or Marriage a la Mode. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 432 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (15-March-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7046
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    DAPHNE 
                    OR, “MARRIAGE À LA MODE”
                
                BY MRS. HUMPHRY WARD
                With Illustrations by FRED. PEGRAM
                
                    CASSELL AND COMPANY, LIMITED
                    London, New York, Toronto and Melbourne 
                
                1909
                
                ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
            
            
                
                TO L.C.W.
            
            
                LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                
                    Daphne Floyd Frontispiece
                    “It was, so to speak, the first time she had really observed him” facing page 28
                    “‘What kind of girl do you suppose she is?’” 42
                    “‘Thank you. I am just going home’” 78
                    “Bending over, he kissed her” 88
                    “It was the clutch of something racial and inherited” 150
                    “The strengthening firelight showed her small white face” 178
                    “She was the symbol, in her young motherliness, of all that Daphne had
                        denied and forsaken” 234
                    “But, Roger, what can you do?” 238
                    “‘Good-bye, Daphne!’ He held out his hand to her” 314
                
            
        
        
            
                
                PART I
                
                    
                        “When all birds else do of their music fail
                        Money's the still-sweet-singing nightingale.”
                    
                
                
                    DAPHNE, OR “MARRIAGE À LA MODE”
                    
                    CHAPTER I
                    “A STIFLING hot day!” General Hobson lifted his hat and
                        mopped his forehead indignantly. “What on earth this place can be like in
                        June I can't conceive! The tenth of April, and I'll be bound the
                        thermometer's somewhere near eighty in the shade. You never find the English
                        climate playing you these tricks.”
                    Roger Barnes looked at his uncle with amusement.
                    “Don't you like heat, Uncle Archie? Ah, but I forgot, it's American
                        heat.”
                    “I like a climate you can depend on,” said the General, quite conscious that
                        he was talking absurdly, yet none the less determined to talk, by way of
                        relief to some obscure annoyance. “Here we are sweltering in this abominable
                        heat, and in New York last week they had a blizzard, and here, even, it was
                        cold enough to give me rheumatism. The
                        climate's always in extremes—like the people.”
                    “I'm sorry to find you don't like the States, Uncle Archie.”
                    The young man sat down beside his uncle. They were in the deck saloon of a
                        steamer which had left Washington about an hour before for Mount Vernon.
                        Through the open doorway to their left they saw a wide expanse of river,
                        flowing between banks of spring green, and above it thunderous clouds, in a
                        hot blue. The saloon, and the decks outside, held a great crowd of
                        passengers, of whom the majority were women.
                    The tone in which Roger Barnes spoke was good-tempered, but quite
                        perfunctory. Any shrewd observer would have seen that whether his uncle
                        liked the States or not did not in truth matter to him a whit.
                    “And I consider all the arrangements for this trip most unsatisfactory,” the
                        General continued angrily. “The steamer's too small, the landing-place is
                        too small, the crowd getting on board was something disgraceful. They'll
                        have a shocking accident one of these days. And what on earth are all these
                        women here for—in the middle of the day? It's not a holiday.”
                    “I believe it's a teachers' excursion,” said young Barnes absently, his eyes
                        resting on the rows of young women in white
                        blouses and spring hats who sat in close-packed chairs upon the deck—an
                        eager, talkative host.
                    “H'm—Teachers!” The General's tone was still more pugnacious. “Going to learn
                        more lies about us, I suppose, that they may teach them to school-children?
                        I was turning over some of their school-books in a shop yesterday. Perfectly
                        abominable! It's monstrous what they teach the children here about what
                        they're pleased to call their War of Independence. All that we did was to
                        ask them to pay something for their own protection. What did it matter to us
                        whether they were mopped up by the Indians, or the French, or not? ‘But if
                        you want us to go to all the expense and trouble of protecting you, and
                        putting down those fellows, why, hang it,’ we said, ‘you must pay some of
                        the bill!’ That was all English Ministers asked; and perfectly right too.
                        And as for the men they make such a fuss about, Samuel Adams, and John
                        Adams, and Franklin, and all the rest of the crew, I tell you, the stuff
                        they teach American school-children about them is a poisoning of the wells!
                        Franklin was a man of profligate life, whom I would never have admitted
                        inside my doors! And as for the Adamses—intriguers—canting fellows!—both of
                        them.”
                    “Well, at least you'll give them George
                        Washington.” As he spoke, Barnes concealed a yawn, followed immediately
                        afterwards by a look of greater alertness, caused by the discovery that a
                        girl sitting not far from the doorway in the crowd outside was certainly
                        pretty.
                    The red-faced, white-haired General paused a moment before replying, then
                        broke out: “What George Washington might have been if he had held a straight
                        course I am not prepared to say. As it is, I don't hesitate for a moment!
                        George Washington was nothing more nor less than a rebel—a damned rebel! And
                        what Englishmen mean by joining in the worship of him I've never been able
                        to understand.”
                    “I say, uncle, take care,” said the young man, looking round him, and
                        observing with some relief that they seemed to have the saloon to
                        themselves. “These Yankees will stand most things, but—”
                    “You needn't trouble yourself, Roger,” was the testy reply; “I am not in the
                        habit of annoying my neighbours. Well now, look here, what I want to know
                        is, what is the meaning of this absurd journey of yours?”
                    The young man's frown increased. He began to poke the floor with his stick.
                        “I don't know why you call it absurd?”
                    “To me it seems both absurd and extravagant,” said the other with emphasis.
                            “The last thing I heard of you was that
                        Burdon and Co. had offered you a place in their office, and that you were
                        prepared to take it. When a man has lost his money and becomes dependent
                        upon others, the sooner he gets to work the better.”
                    Roger Barnes reddened under the onslaught, and the sulky expression of his
                        handsome mouth became more pronounced. “I think my mother and I ought to be
                        left to judge for ourselves,” he said rather hotly. “We haven't asked
                        anybody for money yet, Uncle Archie. Burdon and Co. can have me
                        in September just as well as now; and my mother wished me to make some
                        friends over here who might be useful to me.”
                    “Useful to you. How?”
                    “I think that's my affair. In this country there are always openings—things
                        turning up—chances—you can't get at home.”
                    The General gave a disapproving laugh. “The only chance that'll help you,
                        Roger, at present—excuse me if I speak frankly—is the chance of regular
                        work. Your poor mother has nothing but her small fixed income, and you
                        haven't a farthing to chuck away on what you call chances. Why, your passage
                        by the Lucania alone must have cost a pretty penny. I'll bet my
                        hat you came first class.”
                    
                    The young man was clearly on the brink of an explosion, but controlled
                        himself with an effort. “I paid the winter rate; and mother, who knows the
                        Cunard people very well, got a reduction. I assure you, Uncle Archie,
                        neither mother nor I is a fool, and we know quite well what we are
                        about.”
                    As he spoke he raised himself with energy, and looked his companion in the
                        face.
                    The General, surveying him, was mollified, as usual, by nothing in the world
                        but the youth's extraordinary good looks. Roger Barnes's good looks had
                        been, indeed, from his childhood upwards the distinguishing and remarkable
                        feature about him. He had been a king among his school-fellows largely
                        because of them, and of the athletic prowess which went with them; and while
                        at Oxford he had been cast for the part of Apollo in The
                            Eumenides, Nature having clearly designed him for it, in spite
                        of the lamentable deficiencies in his Greek scholarship, which gave his
                        prompters and trainers so much trouble. Nose, chin, brow, the poising of the
                        head on the shoulders, the large blue eyes, lidded and set with a Greek
                        perfection, the delicacy of the lean, slightly hollow cheeks, combined with
                        the astonishing beauty and strength of the head, crowned with ambrosial
                        curls—these possessions, together with others, had so far made life an easy and triumphant business for their
                        owner. The “others,” let it be noted, however, had till now always been
                        present; and, chief amongst them, great wealth and an important and popular
                        father. The father was recently dead, as the black band on the young man's
                        arm still testified, and the wealth had suddenly vanished, wholly and
                        completely, in one of the financial calamities of the day. General Hobson,
                        contemplating his nephew, and mollified, as we have said, by his splendid
                        appearance, kept saying to himself: “He hasn't a farthing but what poor
                        Laura allows him; he has the tastes of forty thousand a year; a very
                        indifferent education; and what the deuce is he going to do?”
                    Aloud he said:
                    “Well, all I know is, I had a deplorable letter last mail from your poor
                        mother.”
                    The young man turned his head away, his cigarette still poised at his lips.
                        “Yes, I know—mother's awfully down.”
                    “Well, certainly your mother was never meant for a poor woman,” said the
                        General, with energy. “She takes it uncommonly hard.”
                    Roger, with face still averted, showed no inclination to discuss his mother's
                        character on these lines.
                    “However, she'll get along all right, if you
                        do your duty by her,” added the General, not without a certain severity.
                    “I mean to do it, sir.” Barnes rose as he spoke. “I should think we're
                        getting near Mount Vernon by this time. I'll go and look.”
                    He made his way to the outer deck, the General following. The old soldier, as
                        he moved through the crowd of chairs in the wake of his nephew, was well
                        aware of the attention excited by the young man. The eyes of many damsels
                        were upon him; and, while the girls looked and said nothing, their mothers
                        laughed and whispered to each other as the young Apollo passed.
                    Standing at the side of the steamer, the uncle and nephew perceived that the
                        river had widened to a still more stately breadth, and that, on the southern
                        bank, a white building, high placed, had come into view. The excursionists
                        crowded to look, expressing their admiration for the natural scene and their
                        sense of its patriotic meaning in a frank, enthusiastic chatter, which
                        presently enveloped the General, standing in a silent endurance like a rock
                        among the waves.
                    “Isn't it fine to think of his coming back here to die, so simply, when he'd
                        made a nation?” said a young girl—perhaps from Omaha—to her companion.
                        “Wasn't it just lovely?”
                    
                    Her voice, restrained, yet warm with feeling, annoyed General Hobson. He
                        moved away, and as they hung over the taffrail, he said with suppressed
                        venom to his companion: “Much good it did them to be ‘made a nation’! Look
                        at their press—look at their corruption—their divorce scandals!”
                    Barnes laughed, and threw his cigarette-end into the swift brown water.
                    “Upon my word, Uncle Archie, I can't play up to you. As far as I've gone, I
                        like America and the Americans.”
                    “Which means, I suppose, that your mother gave you some introductions to rich
                        people in New York, and they entertained you?” said the General drily.
                    “Well, is there any crime in that? I met a lot of uncommonly nice
                        people.”
                    “And didn't particularly bless me when I wired to you to come here?”
                    The young man laughed again and paused a moment before replying.
                    “I'm always very glad to come and keep you company, Uncle Archie.”
                    The old General reddened a little. Privately, he knew very well that his
                        telegram summoning young Barnes from New York had been an act of
                        tyranny—mild, elderly tyranny. He was not amusing himself in Washington,
                        where he was paying a second visit after an absence of twenty years. His English soul was disturbed and
                        affronted by a wholly new realisation of the strength of America, by the
                        giant forces of the young nation, as they are to be felt pulsing in the
                        Federal City. He was up in arms for the Old World, wondering sorely and
                        secretly what the New might do with her in the times to come, and foreseeing
                        an ever-increasing deluge of unlovely things—ideals, principles,
                        manners—flowing from this western civilisation, under which his own gods
                        were already half buried, and would soon be hidden beyond recovery. And in
                        this despondency which possessed him, in spite of the attentions of
                        Embassies, and luncheons at the White House, he had heard that Roger was in
                        New York, and could not resist the temptation to send for him. After all,
                        Roger was his heir. Unless the boy flagrantly misbehaved himself, he would
                        inherit General Hobson's money and small estate in Northamptonshire. Before
                        the death of Roger's father this prospective inheritance, indeed, had not
                        counted for very much in the family calculations. The General had even felt
                        a shyness in alluding to a matter so insignificant in comparison with the
                        general scale on which the Barnes family lived. But since the death of
                        Barnes père, and the complete pecuniary
                        ruin revealed by that event, Roger's expectations from his uncle had
                            assumed a new importance. The General
                        was quite aware of it. A year before this date he would never have dreamed
                        of summoning Roger to attend him at a moment's notice. That he had done so,
                        and that Roger had obeyed him, showed how closely even the family relation
                        may depend on pecuniary circumstance.
                    The steamer swung round to the landing-place under the hill of Mount Vernon.
                        Again, in disembarkation, there was a crowd and rush which set the General's
                        temper on edge. He emerged from it, hot and breathless, after haranguing the
                        functionary at the gates on the inadequacy of the arrangements and the
                        likelihood of an accident. Then he and Roger strode up the steep path,
                        beside beds of blue periwinkles, and under old trees just bursting into
                        leaf. A spring sunshine was in the air and on the grass, which had already
                        donned its “livelier emerald.” The air quivered with heat, and the blue dome
                        of sky diffused it. Here and there a magnolia in full flower on the green
                        slopes spread its splendour of white or pinkish blossom to the sun; the
                        great river, shimmering and streaked with light, swept round the hill, and
                        out into a pearly distance; and on the height the old pillared house with
                        its flanking colonnades stood under the thinly green trees in a sharp light
                        and shade, which emphasised all its delightful qualities—made, as it were, the most of it, in response to the
                        eagerness of the crowd now flowing round it.
                    Half-way up the hill Roger suddenly raised his hat.
                    “Who is it?” said the General, putting up his eyeglass.
                    “The girl we met last night and her brother.”
                    “Captain Boyson? So it is. They seem to have a party with them.”
                    The lady whom young Barnes had greeted moved towards the Englishmen, followed
                        by her brother.
                    “I didn't know we were to meet to-day,” she said gaily, with a mocking look
                        at Roger. “I thought you said you were bored—and going back to New
                        York.”
                    Roger was relieved to see that his uncle, engaged in shaking hands with the
                        American officer, had not heard this remark. Tact was certainly not Miss
                        Boyson's strong point.
                    “I am sure I never said anything of the kind,” he said, looking brazenly down
                        upon her; “nothing in the least like it.”
                    “Oh! oh!” the lady protested, with an extravagant archness. “Mrs. Phillips,
                        this is Mr. Barnes. We were just talking of him, weren't we?”
                    An elderly lady, quietly dressed in grey
                        silk, turned, bowed, and looked curiously at the Englishman.
                    “I hear you and Miss Boyson discovered some common friends last night.”
                    “We did, indeed. Miss Boyson posted me up in a lot of the people I have been
                        seeing in New York. I am most awfully obliged to her,” said Barnes. His
                        manner was easy and forthcoming, the manner of one accustomed to feel
                        himself welcome and considered.
                    “I behaved like a walking ‘Who's Who,’ only I was much more interesting, and
                        didn't tell half as many lies,” said the girl, in a high penetrating voice.
                        “Daphne, let me introduce you to Mr. Barnes. Mr. Barnes—Miss Floyd; Mr.
                        Barnes—Mrs. Verrier.”
                    Two ladies beyond Mrs. Phillips made vague inclinations, and young Barnes
                        raised his hat. The whole party walked on up the hill. The General and
                        Captain Boyson fell into a discussion of some military news of the morning.
                        Roger Barnes was mostly occupied with Miss Boyson, who had a turn for
                        monopoly; and he could only glance occasionally at the two ladies with Mrs.
                        Phillips. But he was conscious that the whole group made a distinguished
                        appearance. Among the hundreds of young women streaming over the lawn they
                        were clearly marked out by their carriage and their clothes—especially their
                        clothes—as belonging to the fastidious
                        cosmopolitan class, between whom and the young school-teachers from the
                        West, in their white cotton blouses, leathern belts, and neat short skirts,
                        the links were few. Miss Floyd, indeed, was dressed with great simplicity. A
                        white muslin dress, à la Romney, with a
                        rose at the waist, and a black-and-white Romney hat deeply shading the face
                        beneath—nothing could have been plainer; yet it was a simplicity not to be
                        had for the asking, a calculated, a Parisian simplicity; while her
                        companion, Mrs. Verrier, was attired in what the fashion-papers would have
                        called a “creation in mauve.” And Roger knew quite enough about women's
                        dress to be aware that it was a creation that meant dollars. She was a tall,
                        dark-eyed, olive-skinned woman, thin almost to emaciation: and young Barnes
                        noticed that while Miss Floyd talked much, Mrs. Verrier answered little, and
                        smiled less. She moved with a languid step, and looked absently about her.
                        Roger could not make up his mind whether she was American or English.
                    In the house itself the crowd was almost unmanageable. The General's ire was
                        roused afresh when he was warned off the front door by the polite official
                        on guard, and made to mount a back stair in the midst of a panting
                        multitude.
                    “I really cannot congratulate you on your
                        management of these affairs,” he said severely to Captain Boyson, as they
                        stood at last, breathless and hustled, on the first-floor landing. “It is
                        most improper, I may say dangerous, to admit such a number at once. And, as
                        for seeing the house, it is simply impossible. I shall make my way down as
                        soon as possible, and go for a walk.”
                    Captain Boyson looked perplexed. General Hobson was a person of eminence;
                        Washington had been very civil to him; and the American officer felt a kind
                        of host's responsibility.
                    “Wait a moment; I'll try and find somebody.” He disappeared, and the party
                        maintained itself with difficulty in a corner of the landing against the
                        pressure of a stream of damsels, who crowded to the open doors of the rooms,
                        looked through the gratings which bar the entrance without obstructing the
                        view, chattered, and moved on. General Hobson stood against the wall, a
                        model of angry patience. Cecilia Boyson, glancing at him with a laughing
                        eye, said in Roger's ear: “How sad it is that your uncle dislikes us
                        so!”
                    “Us? What you do mean?”
                    “That he hates America so. Oh, don't say he doesn't, because I've watched
                        him, at one, two, three parties. He thinks we're a horrid, noisy, vulgar
                        people, with most unpleasant voices, and he
                        thanks God for the Atlantic—and hopes he may never see us again.”
                    “Well, of course, if you're so certain about it, there's no good in
                        contradicting you. Did you say that lady's name was Floyd? Could I have seen
                        her last week in New York?”
                    “Quite possible. Perhaps you heard something about her?”
                    “No,” said Barnes, after thinking a moment. “I remember—somebody pointed her
                        out at the opera.”
                    His companion looked at him with a kind of hard amusement. Cecilia Boyson was
                        only five-and-twenty, but there was already something in her that foretold
                        the formidable old maid.
                    “Well, when people begin upon Daphne Floyd,” she said, “they generally go
                        through with it. Ah! here comes Alfred.”
                    Captain Boyson, pushing his way through the throng, announced to his sister
                        and General Hobson that he had found the curator in charge of the house, who
                        sent a message by him to the effect that if only the party would wait till
                        four o'clock, the official closing hour, he himself would have great
                        pleasure in showing them the house when all the tourists of the day had
                        taken their departure.
                    
                    “Then,” said Miss Floyd, smiling at the General, “let us go and sit in the
                        garden, and feel ourselves aristocratic and superior.”
                    The General's brow smoothed. Voice and smile were alike engaging. Their owner
                        was not exactly pretty, but she had very large dark eyes, and a small
                        glowing face, set in a profusion of hair. Her neck, the General thought, was
                        the slenderest he had ever seen, and the slight round lines of her form
                        spoke of youth in its first delicate maturity. He followed her obediently,
                        and they were all soon in the garden again, and free of the crowd. Miss
                        Floyd led the way across the grass with the General.
                    “Ah! now you will see the General will begin to like us,” said Miss Boyson.
                        “Daphne has got him in hand.”
                    Her tone was slightly mocking. Barnes observed the two figures in front of
                        them, and remarked that Miss Floyd had a “very—well—a very foreign
                        look.”
                    “Not English, you mean?—or American? Well, naturally. Her mother was a
                        Spaniard—a South American—from Buenos Ayres. That's why she is so dark, and
                        so graceful.”
                    “I never saw a prettier dress,” said Barnes, following the slight figure with
                        his eyes. “It's so simple.”
                    His companion laughed again. The manner of
                        the laugh puzzled her companion, but, just as he was about to put a
                        question, the General and the young lady paused in front, to let the rest of
                        the party come up with them. Miss Floyd proposed a seat a little way down
                        the slope, where they might wait the half-hour appointed.
                    That half-hour passed quickly for all concerned. In looking back upon it
                        afterwards two of the party were conscious that it had all hung upon one
                        person. Daphne Floyd sat beside the General, who paid her a half-reluctant,
                        half-fascinated attention. Without any apparent effort on her part she
                        became indeed the centre of the group who sat or lay on the grass. All faces
                        were turned towards her, and presently all ears listened for her remarks.
                        Her talk was young and vivacious, nothing more. But all she said came, as it
                        were, steeped in personality, a personality so energetic, so charged with
                        movement and with action that it arrested the spectators—not always
                        agreeably. It was like the passage of a train through the darkness, when,
                        for the moment, the quietest landscape turns to fire and force.
                    The comparison suggested itself to Captain Boyson as he lay watching her,
                        only to be received with an inward mockery, half bitter, half amused. This
                        girl was always awakening in him these
                        violent or desperate images. Was it her fault that she possessed those
                        brilliant eyes—eyes, as it seemed, of the typical, essential woman?—and that
                        downy brunette skin, with the tinge in it of damask red?—and that
                        instinctive art of lovely gesture in which her whole being seemed to express
                        itself? Boyson, who was not only a rising soldier, but an excellent amateur
                        artist, knew every line of the face by heart. He had drawn Miss Daphne from
                        the life on several occasions; and from memory scores of times. He was not
                        likely to draw her from life any more; and thereby hung a tale. As far as he
                        was concerned the train had passed—in flame and fury—leaving an echoing
                        silence behind it.
                    What folly! He turned resolutely to Mrs. Verrier, and tried to discuss with
                        her an exhibition of French art recently opened in Washington. In vain.
                        After a few sentences, the talk between them dropped, and both he and she
                        were once more watching Miss Floyd, and joining in the conversation whenever
                        she chose to draw them in.
                    As for Roger Barnes, he too was steadily subjugated—up to a certain point. He
                        was not sure that he liked Miss Floyd, or her conversation. She was so much
                        mistress of herself and of the company, that his masculine vanity
                        occasionally rebelled. A little flirt!—that gave herself airs. It startled his English mind that
                        at twenty—for she could be no more—a girl should so take the floor, and hold
                        the stage. Sometimes he turned his back upon her—almost; and Cecilia Boyson
                        held him. But, if there was too much of the “eternal womanly” in Miss Floyd,
                        there was not enough in Cecilia Boyson. He began to discover also that she
                        was too clever for him, and was in fact talking down to him. Some of the
                        things that she said to him about New York and Washington puzzled him
                        extremely. She was, he supposed, intellectual; but the intellectual women in
                        England did not talk in the same way. He was equal to them, or flattered
                        himself that he was; but Miss Boyson was beyond him. He was getting into
                        great difficulties with her, when suddenly Miss Floyd addressed him:
                    “I am sure I saw you in New York, at the opera?”
                    She bent over to him as she spoke, and lowered her voice. Her look was merry,
                        perhaps a little satirical. It put him on his guard.
                    “Yes, I was there. You were pointed out to me.”
                    “You were with some old friends of mine. I suppose they gave you an account
                        of me?”
                    “They were beginning it; but then Melba
                        began to sing, and some horrid people in the next box said ‘Hush!’”
                    She studied him in a laughing silence a moment, her chin on her hand, then
                        said:
                    “That is the worst of the opera; it stops so much interesting
                        conversation.”
                    “You don't care for the music?”
                    “Oh, I am a musician!” she said quickly. “I teach it. But I am like the mad
                        King of Bavaria—I want an opera-house to myself.”
                    “You teach it?” he said, in amazement.
                    She nodded, smiling. At that moment a bell rang. Captain Boyson rose.
                    “That's the signal for closing. I think we ought to be moving up.”
                    They strolled slowly towards the house, watching the stream of excursionists
                        pour out of the house and gardens, and wind down the hill; sounds of talk
                        and laughter filled the air, and the western sun touched the spring hats and
                        dresses.
                    “The holidays end to-morrow,” said Daphne Floyd demurely, as she walked
                        beside young Barnes. And she looked smiling at the crowd of young women, as
                        though claiming solidarity with them.
                    A teacher? A teacher of music?—with that self-confidence—that air as though
                        the world belonged to her! The young man was greatly mystified. But he
                        reminded himself that he was in a
                        democratic country where all men—and especially all women—are equal. Not
                        that the young women now streaming to the steamboat were Miss Floyd's
                        equals. The notion was absurd. All that appeared to be true was that Miss
                        Floyd, in any circumstances, would be, and was, the equal of anybody.
                    “How charming your friend is!” he said presently to Cecilia Boyson, as they
                        lingered on the verandah, waiting for the curator, in a scene now deserted.
                        “She tells me she is a teacher of music.”
                    Cecilia Boyson looked at him in amazement, and made him repeat his remark. As
                        he did so, his uncle called him, and he turned away. Miss Boyson leant
                        against one of the pillars of the verandah, shaking with suppressed
                        laughter.
                    But at that moment the curator, a gentle, grey-haired man, appeared, shaking
                        hands with the General, and bowing to the ladies. He gave them a little
                        discourse on the house and its history, as they stood on the verandah; and
                        private conversation was no longer possible.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER II
                    A SUDDEN hush had fallen upon Mount Vernon. From the river
                        below came the distant sounds of the steamer, which, with its crowds safe on
                        board, was now putting off for Washington. But the lawns and paths of the
                        house, and the formal garden behind it, and all its simple rooms upstairs
                        and down, were now given back to the spring and silence, save for this last
                        party of sightseers. The curator, after his preliminary lecture on the
                        verandah, took them within; the railings across the doors were removed; they
                        wandered in and out as they pleased.
                    Perhaps, however, there were only two persons among the six now following the
                        curator to whom the famous place meant anything more than a means of idling
                        away a warm afternoon. General Hobson carried his white head proudly through
                        it, saying little or nothing. It was the house of a man who had wrenched
                        half a continent from Great Britain; the English Tory had no intention
                        whatever of bowing the knee. On the other hand, it was the house of a
                        soldier and a gentleman, representing old English traditions, tastes, and
                            manners. No modern blatancy, no Yankee
                        smartness anywhere. Simplicity and moderate wealth, combined with
                        culture,—witness the books of the library,—with land-owning, a family coach,
                        and church on Sundays: these things the Englishman understood. Only the
                        slaves, in the picture of Mount Vernon's past, were strange to him.
                    They stood at length in the death-chamber, with its low white bed, and its
                        balcony overlooking the river.
                    “This, ladies, is the room in which General Washington died,” said the
                        curator, patiently repeating the familiar sentence. “It is, of course, on
                        that account sacred to every true American.”
                    He bowed his head instinctively as he spoke. The General looked round him in
                        silence. His eye was caught by the old hearth, and by the iron plate at the
                        back of it, bearing the letters G.W. and some scroll work. There flashed
                        into his mind a vision of the December evening on which Washington passed
                        away, the flames flickering in the chimney, the winds breathing round the
                        house and over the snow-bound landscape outside, the dying man in that white
                        bed, and around him, hovering invisibly, the generations of the future.
                    The General's patriotic mind was not alloyed by any harassing sense of
                        humour; he therefore firmly reminded
                        himself that no Englishman had a right to think of Washington as anything
                        better than a traitor to his king and country; yet he admitted that it was
                        perhaps natural that Americans should consider him a great man.
                    The French window beside the bed was thrown open, and these privileged guests
                        were invited to step on to the balcony. Daphne Floyd was handed out by young
                        Barnes. They hung over the white balustrade together. An evening light was
                        on the noble breadth of river; its surface of blue and gold gleamed through
                        the boughs of the trees which girdled the house; blossoms of wild cherry, of
                        dogwood, and magnolia sparkled amid the coverts of young green.
                    Roger Barnes remarked, with sincerity, as he looked about him, that it was a
                        very pretty place, and he was glad he had not missed it. Miss Floyd made an
                        absent reply, being in fact occupied in studying the speaker. It was, so to
                        speak, the first time she had really observed him; and, as they paused on
                        the balcony together, she was suddenly possessed by the same impression as
                        that which had mollified the General's scolding on board the steamer. He was
                        indeed handsome, the young Englishman!—a magnificent figure of a man, in
                        height and breadth and general proportions; and in addition, as it seemed to
                        her, possessed of an absurd and superfluous beauty of feature. What does a man want with such good looks? This was
                        perhaps the girl's first instinctive feeling. She was, indeed, a little
                        dazzled by her new companion, now that she began to realise him. As compared
                        with the average man in Washington or New York, here was an exception—an
                        Apollo!—for she too thought of the Sun-god. Miss Floyd could not remember
                        that she had ever had to do with an Apollo before; young Barnes, therefore,
                        was so far an event, a sensation. In the opera-house she had been vaguely
                        struck by a handsome face. But here, in the freedom of outdoor dress and
                        movement, he seemed to her a physical king of men; and, at the same time,
                        his easy manner—which, however, was neither conceited nor ill-bred—showed
                        him conscious of his advantages.
                    As they chatted on the balcony she put him through his paces a little. He had
                        been, it seemed, at Eton and Oxford; and she supposed that he belonged to
                        the rich English world. His mother was a Lady Barnes; his father, she
                        gathered, was dead; and he was travelling, no doubt, in the lordly English
                        way, to get a little knowledge of the barbarians outside, before he settled
                        down to his own kingdom, and the ways thereof. She envisaged a big Georgian
                        house in a spreading park, like scores that she had seen in the course of
                        motoring through England the year before.
                    
                     
                    
                    Meanwhile, the dear young man was evidently trying to talk to her, without
                        too much reference to the gilt gingerbread of this world. He did not wish
                        that she should feel herself carried into regions where she was not at home,
                        so that his conversation ran amicably on music. Had she learnt it abroad? He
                        had a cousin who had been trained at Leipsic; wasn't teaching it trying
                        sometimes—when people had no ear? Delicious! She kept it up, talking with
                        smiles of “my pupils” and “my class,” while they wandered after the others
                        upstairs to the dark low-roofed room above the death-chamber, where Martha
                        Washington spent the last years of her life, in order that from the high
                        dormer window she might command the tomb on the slope below, where her dead
                        husband lay. The curator told the well-known story. Mrs. Verrier, standing
                        beside him, asked some questions, showed indeed some animation.
                    “She shut herself up here? She lived in this garret? That she might always
                        see the tomb? That is really true?”
                    Barnes, who did not remember to have heard her speak before, turned at the
                        sound of her voice, and looked at her curiously. She wore an
                        expression—bitter or incredulous—which, somehow, amused him. As they
                        descended again to the garden he communicated his amusement—discreetly—to
                        Miss Floyd.
                    
                    “Did Mrs. Verrier imply that no one who was not a fool could show her grief
                        as Mrs. Washington did? That it was, in fact, a sign of being a fool to
                        regret your husband?”
                    “Did she say that?” asked Miss Floyd quickly.
                    “Not like that, of course, but—”
                    They had now reached the open air again, and found themselves crossing the
                        front court to the kitchen-garden. Daphne Floyd did not wait till Roger
                        should finish his sentence. She turned on him a face which was grave if not
                        reproachful.
                    “I suppose you know Mrs. Verrier's story?”
                    “Why, I never saw her before! I hope I haven't said anything I oughtn't to
                        have said?”
                    “Everybody knows it here,” said Daphne slowly. “Mrs. Verrier married three
                        years ago. She married a Jew—a New Yorker—who had changed his name. You know
                        Jews are not in what we call ‘society’ here. But Madeleine thought she could
                        do it; she was in love with him, and she meant to be able to do without
                        society. But she couldn't do without society; and presently she began to
                        dine out, and go to parties by herself—he urged her to. Then, after a bit,
                        people didn't ask her as much as before; she wasn't happy; and her people
                        began to talk to him about a divorce—naturally they had been against her
                        marrying him all along. He said—as they and
                        she pleased. Then, one night about a year ago, he took the train to
                        Niagara—of course it was a very commonplace thing to do—and two days
                        afterwards he was found, thrown up by the whirlpool; you know, where all the
                        suicides are found!”
                    Barnes stopped short in front of his companion, his face flushing.
                    “What a horrible story!” he said, with emphasis.
                    Miss Floyd nodded.
                    “Yes, poor Madeleine has never got over it.”
                    The young man still stood riveted.
                    “Of course Mrs. Verrier herself had nothing to do with the talk about
                        divorce?”
                    Something in his tone roused a combative instinct in his companion. She, too,
                        coloured, and drew herself up.
                    “Why shouldn't she? She was miserable. The marriage had been a great
                        mistake.”
                    “And you allow divorce for that?” said the man, wondering. “Oh, of course I
                        know every State is different, and some States are worse than others. But,
                        somehow, I never came across a case like that—first hand—before.”
                    He walked on slowly beside his companion, who held herself a little
                        stiffly.
                    “I don't know why you should talk in that
                        way,” she said at last, breaking out in a kind of resentment, “as though all
                        our American views are wrong! Each nation arranges these things for itself.
                        You have the laws that suit you; you must allow us those that suit us.”
                    Barnes paused again, his face expressing a still more complete
                        astonishment.
                    “You say that?” he said. “You!”
                    “And why not?”
                    “But—but you are so young!” he said, evidently finding a difficulty in
                        putting his impressions. “I beg your pardon—I ought not to talk about it at
                        all. But it was so odd that—”
                    “That I knew anything about Mrs. Verrier's affairs?” said Miss Floyd, with a
                        rather uncomfortable laugh. “Well, you see, American girls are not like
                        English ones. We don't pretend not to know what everybody knows.”
                    “Of course,” said Roger hurriedly; “but you wouldn't think it a fair and
                        square thing to do?”
                    “Think what?”
                    “Why, to marry a man, and then talk of divorcing him because people didn't
                        invite you to their parties.”
                    “She was very unhappy,” said Daphne stubbornly.
                    “Well, by Jove!” cried the young man, “she doesn't look very happy now!”
                    
                    “No,” Miss Floyd admitted. “No. There are many people who think she'll never
                        get over it.”
                    “Well, I give it up.” The Apollo shrugged his handsome shoulders. “You say it
                        was she who proposed to divorce him?—yet when the wretched man removes
                        himself, then she breaks her heart!”
                    “Naturally she didn't mean him to do it in that way,” said the girl with
                        impatience. “Of course you misunderstood me
                        entirely!—entirely!” she added with an emphasis which suited
                        with her heightened colour and evidently ruffled feelings.
                    Young Barnes looked at her with embarrassment. What a queer, hot-tempered
                        girl! Yet there was something in her which attracted him. She was graceful
                        even in her impatience. Her slender neck, and the dark head upon it, her
                        little figure in the white muslin, her dainty arms and hands—these points in
                        her delighted an honest eye, quite accustomed to appraise the charms of
                        women. But, by George! she took herself seriously, this little music
                        teacher. The air of wilful command about her, the sharpness with which she
                        had just rebuked him, amazed and challenged him.
                    “I am very sorry if I misunderstood you,” he said, a little on his dignity;
                        “but I thought you—”
                    
                    “You thought I sympathised with Mrs. Verrier? So I do; though of course I am
                        awfully sorry that such a dreadful thing happened. But you'll find, Mr.
                        Barnes, that American girls—” The colour rushed into her small olive cheeks.
                        “Well, we know all about the old ideas, and we know also too well that
                        there's only one life, and we don't mean to have that one spoilt. The old
                        notions of marriage—your English notions,” cried the girl facing him—“make
                        it tyranny! Why should people stay together when they see it's a mistake? We
                        say everybody shall have their chance. And not one chance only, but more
                        than one. People find out in marriage what they couldn't find out before,
                        and so—”
                    “You let them chuck it just when they're tired of it?” laughed Barnes. “And
                        what about the—”
                    “The children?” said Miss Floyd calmly. “Well, of course, that has to be very
                        carefully considered. But how can it do children any good to live in an
                        unhappy home?”
                    “Had Mrs. Verrier any children?”
                    “Yes, one little girl.”
                    “I suppose she meant to keep her?”
                    “Why, of course.”
                    “And the father didn't care?”
                    “Well, I believe he did,” said Daphne 
                            un-
                            unwillingly
                         willingly. “Yes, that was very
                        sad. He was quite devoted to her.”
                    “And you think that's all right?” Barnes looked at his companion,
                        smiling.
                    “Well, of course, it was a pity,” she said, with fresh impatience; “I admit
                        it was a pity. But then, why did she ever marry him? That was the horrible
                        mistake.”
                    “I suppose she thought she liked him.”
                    “Oh, it was he who was so desperately in love with her. He plagued her into
                        doing it.”
                    “Poor devil!” said Barnes heartily. “All right, we're coming.”
                    The last words were addressed to General Hobson, waving to them from the
                        kitchen-garden. They hurried on to join the curator, who took the party for
                        a stroll round some of the fields over which George Washington, in his early
                        married life, was accustomed to ride in summer and winter dawns, inspecting
                        his negroes, his plantation, and his barns. The grass in these southern
                        fields was already high; there were shining fruit-trees, blossom-laden, in
                        an orchard copse; and the white dogwood glittered in the woods.
                    For two people to whom the traditions of the place were dear, this quiet walk
                        through Washington's land had a charm far beyond that of the reconstructed
                        interior of the house, Here were things unaltered and unalterable, boundaries, tracks, woods, haunted still by the
                        figure of the young master and bridegroom who brought Patsy Curtis there in
                        1759. To the grey-haired curator every foot of them was sacred and familiar;
                        he knew these fields and the records of them better than any detail of his
                        own personal affairs; for years now he had lived in spirit with Washington,
                        through all the hours of the Mount Vernon day; his life was ruled by one
                        great ghost, so that everything actual was comparatively dim. Boyson too, a
                        fine soldier and a fine intelligence, had a mind stored with Washingtoniana.
                        Every now and then he and the curator fell back on each other's company.
                        They knew well that the others were not worthy of their opportunity;
                        although General Hobson, seeing that most of the memories touched belonged
                        to a period before the Revolution, obeyed the dictates of politeness, and
                        made amends for his taciturnity indoors by a talkative vein outside.
                    Captain Boyson was not, however, wholly occupied with history or
                        reminiscence. He perceived very plainly before the walk was over that the
                        General's good-looking nephew and Miss Daphne Floyd were interested in each
                        other's conversation. When they joined the party in the garden it seemed to
                        him that they had been disputing. Miss Daphne was flushed and a little
                        snappish when spoken to; and the young man
                        looked embarrassed. But presently he saw that they gravitated to each other,
                        and that, whatever chance combination might be formed during the walk, it
                        always ended for a time in the flight ahead of the two figures, the girl in
                        the rose-coloured sash and the tall handsome youth. Towards the end of the
                        walk they became separated from the rest of the party, and only arrived at
                        the little station just in time before the cars started. On this occasion
                        again, they had been clearly arguing and disagreeing; and Daphne had the air
                        of a ruffled bird, her dark eyes glittering, her mouth set in the obstinate
                        lines that Boyson knew by heart. But again they sat together in the car, and
                        talked and sparred all the way home; while Mrs. Verrier, in a corner of the
                        carriage, shut her hollow eyes, and laid her thin hands one over the other,
                        and in her purple draperies made a picture à la
                            Mélisande which was not lost upon her companions. Boyson's
                        mind registered a good many grim or terse comments, as occasionally he found
                        himself watching this lady. Scarcely a year since that hideous business at
                        Niagara, and here she was in that extravagant dress! He wished his sister
                        would not make a friend of her, and that Daphne Floyd saw less of her. Miss
                        Daphne had quite enough bees in her own bonnet without adopting Mrs.
                        Verrier's.
                    
                    Meanwhile, it was the General who, on the return journey, was made to serve
                        Miss Boyson's gift for monopoly. She took possession of him in a
                        business-like way, inquiring into his engagements in Washington, his
                        particular friends, his opinion of the place and the people, with a
                        light-handed acuteness which was more than a match for the Englishman's
                        instincts of defence. The General did not mean to give himself away; he
                        intended, indeed, precisely the contrary; but, after every round of
                        conversation, Miss Boyson felt herself more and more richly provided with
                        materials for satire at the expense of England and the English tourist, his
                        invincible conceit, insularity, and condescension. She was a clever though
                        tiresome woman; and expressed herself best in letters. She promised herself
                        to write a “character” of General Hobson in her next letter to an intimate
                        friend, which should be a masterpiece. Then, having led him successfully
                        through the rôle of the comic Englishman
                        abroad, she repaid him with information. She told him, not without some
                        secret amusement at the reprobation it excited, the tragic story of Mrs.
                        Verrier. She gave him a full history of her brother's honourable and
                        brilliant career; and here let it be said that the précieuse in her gave way to the sister, and that she talked
                        with feeling. And finally she asked him with a smile whether he admired Miss Floyd. The General, who
                        had in fact been observing Miss Floyd and his nephew with some little
                        uneasiness during the preceding half-hour, replied guardedly that Miss Floyd
                        was pretty and picturesque, and apparently a great talker. Was she a native
                        of Washington?
                    “You never heard of Miss Floyd?—of Daphne Floyd? No? Ah, well!”—and she
                        laughed—“I suppose I ought to take it as a compliment, of a kind. There are
                        so many rich people now in this queer country of ours that even Daphne
                        Floyds don't matter.”
                    “Is Miss Floyd so tremendously rich?”
                    General Hobson turned a quickened countenance upon her, expressing no more
                        than the interest felt by the ordinary man in all societies—more strongly,
                        perhaps, at the present day than ever before—in the mere fact of money. But
                        Miss Boyson gave it at once a personal meaning, and set herself to play on
                        what she scornfully supposed to be the cupidity of the Englishman. She
                        produced, indeed, a full and particular account of Daphne Floyd's parentage,
                        possessions, and prospects, during which the General's countenance
                        represented him with great fidelity. A trace of recalcitrance at the
                        beginning—for it was his opinion that Miss Boyson, like most American women,
                        talked decidedly too much—gave way to close 
                            atten-
                            attention
                         tion, then to astonishment, and
                        finally to a very animated observation of Miss Floyd's slender person as she
                        sat a yard or two from him on the other side of the car, laughing, frowning,
                        or chattering with Roger.
                    “And that poor child has the management of it all?” he said at last, in a
                        tone which did him credit. He himself had lost an only daughter at
                        twenty-one, and he held old-fashioned views as to the helplessness of
                        women.
                    But Cecilia Boyson again misunderstood him.
                    “Oh, yes!” she said, with a cool smile. “Everything is in her own
                        hands—everything! Mrs. Phillips would not dare to interfere. Daphne always
                        has her own way.”
                    The General said no more. Cecilia Boyson looked out of the window at the
                        darkening landscape, thinking with malice of Daphne's dealings with the male
                        sex. It had been a Sleeping Beauty story so far. Treasure for the winning—a
                        thorn hedge—and slain lovers! The handsome Englishman would try it next, no
                        doubt. All young Englishmen, according to her, were on the look-out for
                        American heiresses. Music teacher indeed! She would have given a good deal
                        to hear the conversation of the uncle and nephew when the party broke
                        up.
                    The General and young Barnes made their
                        farewells at the railway station, and took their way on foot to their hotel.
                        Washington was steeped in sunset. The White House, as they passed it, glowed
                        amid its quiet trees. Lafayette Square, with its fountains and statues, its
                        white and pink magnolias, its strolling, chatting crowd, the fronts of the
                        houses, the long vistas of tree-lined avenues, the street cars, the houses,
                        the motors, all the openings and distances of the beautiful, leisurely
                        place—they saw them rosily transfigured under a departing sun, which
                        throughout the day had been weaving the quick spells of a southern
                        spring.
                    “Jolly weather!” said Roger, looking about him. “And a very nice afternoon.
                        How long are you staying here, Uncle Archie?”
                    “I ought to be off at the end of the week; and of course you want to get back
                        to New York? I say, you seemed to be getting on with that young lady?”
                    The General turned a rather troubled eye upon his companion.
                    “She wasn't bad fun,” said the young man graciously; “but rather an odd
                        little thing! We quarrelled about every conceivable subject. And it's queer
                        how much that kind of girl seems to go about in America. She goes everywhere
                        and knows everything. I wonder how she manages it.”
                    “What kind of girl do you suppose she is?”
                        asked the General, stopping suddenly in the middle of Lafayette Square.
                    “She told me she taught singing,” said Roger, in a puzzled voice, “to a class
                        of girls in New York.”
                    The General laughed.
                    “She seems to have made a fool of you, my dear boy. She is one of the great
                        heiresses of America.”
                    Roger's face expressed a proper astonishment.
                    “Oh! that's it, is it? I thought once or twice there was something fishy—she
                        was trying it on. Who told you?”
                    The General retailed his information. Miss Daphne Floyd was the orphan
                        daughter of an enormously rich and now deceased lumber-king, of the State of
                        Illinois. He had made vast sums by lumbering, and then invested in real
                        estate in Chicago and Buffalo, not to speak of a railway or two, and had
                        finally left his daughter and only child in possession of a fortune
                        generally estimated at more than a million sterling. The money was now
                        entirely in the girl's power. Her trustees had been sent about their
                        business, though Miss Floyd was pleased occasionally to consult them. Mrs.
                        Phillips, her chaperon, had not much influence with her; and it was supposed
                        that Mrs. Verrier advised her more than anyone else.
                    
                     
                    
                    “Good heavens!” was all that young Barnes could find to say when the story
                        was told. He walked on absently, flourishing his stick, his face working
                        under the stress of amused meditation. At last he brought out:
                    “You know, Uncle Archie, if you'd heard some of the things Miss Floyd was
                        saying to me, your hair would have stood on end.”
                    The General raised his shoulders.
                    “I dare say. I'm too old-fashioned for America. The sooner I clear out the
                        better. Their newspapers make me sick; I hate the hotels—I hate the cooking;
                        and there isn't a nation in Europe I don't feel myself more at home
                        with.”
                    Roger laughed his clear, good-tempered laugh. “Oh! I don't feel that way at
                        all. I get on with them capitally. They're a magnificent people. And, as to
                        Miss Floyd, I didn't mean anything bad, of course. Only the ideas some of
                        the girls here have, and the way they discuss them—well, it beats me!”
                    “What sort of ideas?”
                    Roger's handsome brow puckered in the effort to explain. “They don't think
                        anything's settled, you know, as we do at home. Miss Floyd
                        doesn't. They think they've got to settle a lot of things that
                        English girls don't trouble about because they're just told to do 'em, or not to do 'em, by the people that look
                        after them!”
                    “‘Everything hatched over again, and hatched different,’” said the General,
                        who was an admirer of George Eliot; “that's what they'd like, eh? Pooh!
                        That's when they're young. They quiet down, like all the rest of the
                        world.”
                    Barnes shook his head. “But they are hatching it over again. You
                        meet people here in society you couldn't meet at home. And it's all right.
                        The law backs them up.”
                    “You're talking about divorce!” said the General. “Aye! it's astounding! The
                        tales one hears in the smoking-room after dinner! In Wyoming, apparently,
                        six months' residence, and there you are. You prove a little cruelty, the
                        husband makes everything perfectly easy, you say a civil good-bye, and the
                        thing's done. Well, they'll pay for it, my dear Roger—they'll pay for it.
                        Nobody ever yet trifled with the marriage law with impunity.”
                    The energy of the old man's bearing became him.
                    Through Roger's mind the thought flashed: “Poor dear Uncle Archie! If he'd
                        been a New Yorker he'd never have put up with Aunt Lavinia for thirty
                        years!”
                    They turned into their hotel, and ordered dinner in an hour's time. Roger
                        found some English letters waiting for him,
                        and carried them off to his room. He opened his mother's first. Lady Barnes
                        wrote a large and straggling hand, which required many sheets and much
                        postage. It might have been observed that her son looked at the sheets for a
                        minute, with a certain distaste, before he began upon them. Yet he was
                        deeply attached to his mother, and it was from her letters week by week that
                        he took his marching orders. If she only wouldn't ride her ideas quite so
                        hard; if she would sometimes leave him alone to act for himself!
                    Here it was again—the old story:
                    “Don't suppose I put these things before you on my account. No,
                        indeed; what does it matter what happens to me? It is when I think that you
                        may have to spend your whole life as a clerk in a bank, unless you rouse
                        yourself now—(for you know, my dear Roger, though you have very good wits,
                        you're not as frightfully clever as people have to be nowadays)—that I begin
                        to despair. But that is entirely in your own hands. You have
                        what is far more valuable than cleverness—you have a delightful disposition,
                        and you are one of the handsomest of men. There! of course, I know you
                        wouldn't let me say it to you in your presence; but it's true all the same.
                        Any girl should be proud to marry you. There are plenty of rich girls in
                        America; and if you play your cards
                        properly you will make her and yourself happy. The grammar of that is not
                        quite right, but you understand me. Find a nice girl—of course a
                            nice girl—with a fortune large enough to put you back in
                        your proper sphere; and it doesn't matter about me. You will pay my rent, I
                        dare say, and help me through when I want it; but that's nothing. The point
                        is, that I cannot submit to your career being spoilt through your poor
                        father's mad imprudence. You must retrieve yourself—you must.
                        Nobody is anything nowadays in the world without money; you know that as
                        well as I do. And besides, there is another reason. You have got to forget
                        the affair of last spring, to put it entirely behind you, to show that
                        horrid woman who threw you over that you will make your life a success in
                        spite of her. Rouse yourself, my dear Roger, and do your best. I hope by now
                        you have forwarded all my introductions? You have your
                        opportunity, and I must say you will be a great fool if you don't use it.
                            Do use it my dear boy, for my sake, I am a very unhappy
                        woman; but you might, if you would, bring back a little brightness to my
                        life.”
                    After he had read the letter, young Barnes sat for some time in a brown study
                        on the edge of his bed. The letter contained only one more repetition of
                        counsels that had been dinned into his ears for months—almost ever since
                            the financial crash which had followed
                        his father's death, and the crash of another sort, concerning himself, which
                        had come so quick upon it. His thoughts returned, as they always did at some
                        hour of the day or night, to the “horrid woman.” Yes, that had hit him hard;
                        the lad's heart still throbbed with bitterness as he thought of it. He had
                        never felt anything so much; he didn't believe he should ever mind anything
                        so much again. “I'm not one of your sentimental sort,” he thought, half
                        congratulating himself, half in self-contempt. But he could not get her out
                        of his head; he wondered if he ever should. And it had gone pretty far too.
                        By Jove! that night in the orchard!—when she had kissed him and thrown her
                        arms round his neck! And then to write him that letter when things were at
                        their worst. She might have done the thing decently. Have treated a fellow
                        kindly at least. Well, of course, it was all done with. Yes, it
                            was. Done with!
                    He got up and began to pace his small room, his hands in his pockets,
                        thinking of the night in the orchard. Then gradually the smart lessened, and
                        his thoughts passed away to other things. That little Yankee girl had really
                        made good sport all the way home. He had not been dull for a moment; she had
                        teased and provoked him so. Her eyes, too, were wonderfully pretty, and her
                        small, pointed chin, and her witch-like
                        imperious ways. Was it her money, the sense that she could do as she liked
                        with most people, that made her so domineering and masterful? Very likely.
                        On the journey he had put it down just to a natural and very surprising
                        impudence. That was when he believed that she was a teacher, earning her
                        bread. But the impudence had not prevented him from finding it much more
                        amusing to talk to her than to anybody else.
                    And, on the whole, he thought she had not disliked him, though she had said
                        the rudest things to him, and he had retaliated. She had asked him, indeed,
                        to join them in an excursion the following day, and to tea at the Country
                        Club. He had meant, if possible, to go back to New York on the morrow. But
                        perhaps a day or two longer—
                    So she had a million—the little sprite? She was and would be a handful!—with
                        a fortune or without it. And possessed also of the most extraordinary
                        opinions. But he thought he would go on the excursion, and to the Country
                        Club. He began to fold his mother's letter, and put it back into its
                        envelope, while a slight flush mounted in his cheeks, and the young mouth
                        that was still so boyish and candid took a stiffer line.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER III
                    “IS Miss Floyd at home?”
                    The questioner was Mrs. Verrier, who had just alighted from her carriage at
                        the door of the house in Columbia Avenue inhabited by Miss Floyd and her
                        chaperon.
                    The maid replied that Miss Floyd had not yet returned, but had left a message
                        begging Mrs. Verrier to wait for her. The visitor was accordingly ushered to
                        the drawing-room on the first floor.
                    This room, the staircase, the maid, all bore witness to Miss Floyd's
                        simplicity—like the Romney dress of Mount Vernon. The colour of the walls
                        and the hangings, the lines of the furniture, were all subdued, even a
                        little austere. Quiet greens and blues, mingled with white, showed the
                        artistic mind; the chairs and sofas were a trifle stiff and straight-legged;
                        the electric fittings were of a Georgian plainness to match the Colonial
                        architecture of the house; the beautiful self-coloured carpet was indeed
                        Persian and costly, but it betrayed its costliness only to the expert.
                        Altogether, the room, one would have said, of any bourse moyenne with an eye
                        for beauty. Fine photographs also, of Italian and Dutch pictures, suggested
                        travel, and struck the cultivated cosmopolitan note.
                    Mrs. Verrier looked round it with a smile. It was all as unpretending as the
                        maid who ushered her upstairs. Daphne would have no men-servants in her
                        employ. What did two ladies want with them, in a democratic country? But
                        Mrs. Verrier happened to know that Daphne's maid-servants were just as
                        costly in their degree as the drawing-room carpet. Chosen for her in London
                        with great care, attracted to Washington by enormous wages, these numerous
                        damsels played their part in the general “simplicity” effect; but on the
                        whole Mrs. Verrier believed that Daphne's household was rather more
                        expensive than that of other rich people who employed men.
                    She walked through the room, looking absently at the various photographs and
                        engravings, till her attention was excited by an easel and a picture upon it
                        in the back drawing-room. She went up to it with a muttered exclamation.
                    “So she bought it! Daphne's amazing!”
                    For what she saw before her was a masterpiece—an excessively costly
                        masterpiece—of the Florentine school, smuggled out of Italy, to the wrath of
                        the Italian Government, some six months before this date, and since then lost to general knowledge. Rumour had
                        given it first to a well-known collection at Boston; then to another at
                        Philadelphia; yet here it was in the possession of a girl of two-and-twenty
                        of whom the great world was just—but only just—beginning to talk.
                    “How like Daphne!” thought her friend, with malice. The “simple” room, and
                        the priceless picture carelessly placed in a corner of it, lest any one
                        should really suppose that Daphne Floyd was an ordinary mortal.
                    Mrs. Verrier sat down at last in a chair fronting the picture and let herself
                        fall into a reverie. On this occasion she was dressed in black. The lace
                        strings of a hat crowned with black ostrich feathers were fastened under her
                        chin by a diamond that sparkled in the dim greenish light of the
                        drawing-room; the feathers of the hat were unusually large and drooping;
                        they curled heavily round the thin neck and long, hollow-eyed face, so that
                        its ivory whiteness, its fatigue, its fretful beauty, were framed in and
                        emphasised by them; her bloodless hands lay upon her lap, and the folds of
                        the sweeping dress drawn round her showed her slenderness, or rather her
                        emaciation. Two years before this date Madeleine Verrier had been a great
                        beauty, and she had never yet reconciled herself to physical losses which
                        were but the outward and visible sign of losses “far more deeply interfused.” As she sat apparently absorbed in
                        thought before the picture, she moved, half consciously, so that she could
                        no longer see herself in a mirror opposite.
                    Yet her thoughts were in truth much engaged with Daphne and Daphne's
                        proceedings. It was now nearly three weeks since Roger Barnes had appeared
                        on the horizon. General Hobson had twice postponed his departure for
                        England, and was still “enduring hardness” in a Washington hotel. Why his
                        nephew should not be allowed to manage his courtship, if it was a courtship,
                        for himself, Mrs. Verrier did not understand. There was no love lost between
                        herself and the General, and she made much mock of him in her talks with
                        Daphne. However, there he was; and she could only suppose that he took the
                        situation seriously and felt bound to watch it in the interests of the young
                        man's absent mother.
                    Was it serious? Certainly Daphne had been committing herself a good deal. The
                        question was whether she had not been committing herself more than the young
                        man had been doing on his side. That was the astonishing part of it. Mrs.
                        Verrier could not sufficiently admire the skill with which Roger Barnes had
                        so far played his part; could not sufficiently ridicule her own lack of
                        insight, which at her first meeting with him had pronounced him stupid. Stupid he might be in the sense that it
                        was of no use to expect from him the kind of talk on books, pictures, and
                        first principles which prevailed in Daphne's circle. But Mrs. Verrier
                        thought she had seldom come across a finer sense of tactics than young
                        Barnes had so far displayed in his dealings with Daphne. If he went on as he
                        had begun, the probability was that he would succeed.
                    Did she, Madeleine Verrier, wish him to succeed?
                    Daphne had grown tragically necessary to her, in this world of American
                        society—that section of it, at any rate, in which she desired to move, where
                        the widow of Leopold Verrier was always conscious of the blowing of a cold
                        and hostile breath. She was not excluded, but she was not welcome; she was
                        not ostracised, but she had lost consideration. There had been something
                        picturesque and appealing in her husband; something unbearably tragic in the
                        manner of his death. She had braved it out by staying in America, instead of
                        losing herself in foreign towns; and she had thereby proclaimed that she had
                        no guilty sense of responsibility, no burden on her conscience; that she had
                        only behaved as a thousand other women would have behaved, and without any
                        cruel intention at all. But she knew all the same that the spectators of
                        what had happened held her for a cruel
                        woman, and that there were many, and those the best, who saw her come with
                        distaste, and go without regret; and it was under that knowledge, in spite
                        of indomitable pride, that her beauty had withered in a year.
                    And at the moment when the smart of what had happened to her—personally and
                        socially—was at its keenest; when, after a series of quarrels, she had
                        separated herself from the imperious mother who had been her evil genius
                        throughout her marriage, she had made friends, unexpectedly, owing to a
                        chance meeting at a picture-gallery, with Daphne Floyd. Some element in
                        Daphne's nature had attracted and disarmed her. The proud, fastidious woman
                        had given the girl her confidence—eagerly, indiscriminately. She had poured
                        out upon her all that wild philosophy of “rights” which is still struggling
                        in the modern mind with a crumbling ethic and a vanishing religion. And she
                        had found in Daphne a warm and passionate ally. Daphne was nothing if not
                        “advanced.” She shrank, as Roger Barnes had perceived, from no question; she
                        had never been forbidden, had never forbidden herself, any book that she had
                        a fancy to read; and she was as ready to discuss the relative divorce laws
                        of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, as the girls of fifty years ago were to talk of the fashions, or “Evangeline.” In
                        any disputed case, moreover, between a man and a woman Daphne was hotly and
                        instinctively on the side of the woman. She had thrown herself therefore
                        with ardour into the defence of Mrs. Verrier; and for her it was not the
                        wife's desertion, but the husband's suicide, which had been the cruel and
                        indefensible thing. All these various traits and liberalisms had made her
                        very dear to Madeleine Verrier.
                    Now, as that lady sat in her usual drooping attitude, wondering what
                        Washington would be like for her when even Daphne Floyd was gone from it,
                        the afternoon sun stole through the curtains of the window on the street and
                        touched some of the furniture and engravings in the inner drawing-room.
                        Suddenly Mrs. Verrier started in her chair. A face had emerged, thrown out
                        upon the shadows by the sun-finger—the countenance of a handsome young Jew,
                        as Rembrandt had once conceived it. Rare and high intelligence, melancholy,
                        and premonition:—they were there embodied, so long as the apparition
                        lasted.
                    The effect on Mrs. Verrier was apparently profound. She closed her eyes; her
                        lips quivered; she leant back feebly in her chair, breathing a name. The
                        crisis lasted a few minutes, while the momentary vision faded and the
                        sunlight crept on. The eyelids unclosed at last, slowly and painfully, as though shrinking from
                        what might greet the eyes beneath them. But the farther wall was now in deep
                        shade. Mrs. Verrier sat up; the emotion which had mastered her like a
                        possession passed away; and rising hurriedly, she went back to the front
                        drawing-room. She had hardly reached it when Miss Floyd's voice was heard
                        upon the stairs.
                    Daphne entered the room in what appeared to be a fit of irritation. She was
                        scolding the parlour-maid, whose high colour and dignified silence
                        proclaimed her both blameless and long-suffering. At the sight of Mrs.
                        Verrier Daphne checked herself with an effort and kissed her friend rather
                        absently.
                    “Dear Madeleine!—very good of you to wait. Have they given you tea? I suppose
                        not. My household seems to have gone mad this afternoon. Sit down. Some tea,
                        Blount, at once.”
                    Mrs. Verrier sank into a corner of the sofa, while Daphne, with an “Ouf!” of
                        fatigue, took off her hat, and threw herself down at the other end, her
                        small feet curled up beneath her. Her half-frowning eyes gave the impression
                        that she was still out of temper and on edge.
                    “Where have you been?” asked her companion quietly.
                    “Listening to a stuffy debate in the Senate,” said Daphne without a
                        smile.
                    
                    “The Senate. What on earth took you there?”
                    “Well, why shouldn't I go?—why does one do anything? It was just a
                        debate—horribly dull—trusts, or something, of that kind. But there was a man
                        attacking the President—and the place was crowded. Ugh! the heat was
                        intolerable!”
                    “Who took you?”
                    Daphne named an under-secretary—an agreeable and ambitious man, who had been
                        very much in her train during the preceding winter, and until Roger Barnes
                        appeared upon the scene.
                    “I thought until I got your message that you were going to take Mr. Barnes
                        motoring up the river.”
                    “Mr. Barnes was engaged.” Daphne gave the information tersely, rousing
                        herself afterwards to make tea, which appeared at that moment.
                    “He seems to have been a good deal engaged this week,” said Mrs. Verrier,
                        when they were alone again.
                    Daphne made no reply. And Mrs. Verrier, after observing her for a moment,
                        resumed:
                    “I suppose it was the Bostonians?”
                    “I suppose so. What does it matter?” The tone was dry and sharp.
                    “Daphne, you goose!” laughed Mrs. Verrier,
                        “I believe this is the very first invitation of theirs he has accepted at
                        all. He was written to about them by an old friend—his Eton master, or
                        somebody of that sort. And as they turned up here on a visit, instead of his
                        having to go and look for them at Boston, of course he had to call upon
                        them.”
                    “I dare say. And of course he had to go to tea with them yesterday, and he
                        had to take them to Arlington this afternoon! I suppose I'd better tell
                        you—we had a quarrel on the subject last night.”
                    “Daphne!—don't, for heaven's sake, make him think himself too important!”
                        cried Mrs. Verrier.
                    Daphne, with both elbows on the table, was slowly crunching a morsel of toast
                        in her small white teeth. She had a look of concentrated energy—as of a
                        person charged and overcharged with force of some kind, impatient to be let
                        loose. Her black eyes sparkled; impetuosity and will shone from them;
                        although they showed also rims of fatigue, as if Miss Daphne's nights had
                        not of late been all they should be. Mrs. Verrier was chiefly struck,
                        however, by the perception that for the first time Daphne was not having
                        altogether her own way with the world. Madeleine had not observed anything
                        of the same kind in her before. In general she was in entire command both
                            of herself and of the men who
                        surrounded her. She made a little court out of them, and treated them
                            en despote. But Roger Barnes had not
                        lent himself to the process; he had not played the game properly; and
                        Daphne's sleep had been disturbed for the first time in history.
                    It had been admitted very soon between the two friends—without putting it
                        very precisely—that Daphne was interested in Roger Barnes. Mrs. Verrier
                        believed that the girl had been originally carried off her feet by the young
                        man's superb good looks, and by the natural distinction—evident in all
                        societies—which they conferred upon him. Then, no doubt, she had been piqued
                        by his good-humoured, easy way—the absence of any doubt of himself, of
                        tremor, of insistence. Mrs. Verrier said to herself—not altogether
                        shrewdly—that he had no nerves, or no heart; and Daphne had not yet come
                        across the genus. Her lovers had either possessed too much heart—like
                        Captain Boyson—or a lack of coolness, when it really came to the point of
                        grappling with Daphne and her millions, as in the case of a dozen she could
                        name. Whereby it had come about that Daphne's attention had been first
                        provoked, then peremptorily seized by the Englishman; and Mrs. Verrier began
                        now to suspect that deeper things were really involved.
                    
                    Certainly there was a good deal to puzzle the spectator. That the English are
                        a fortune-hunting race may be a popular axiom; but it was quite possible,
                        after all, that Roger Barnes was not the latest illustration of it. It was
                        quite possible, also, that he had a sweetheart at home, some quiet,
                        Quakerish girl who would never wave in his face the red flags that Daphne
                        was fond of brandishing. It was equally possible that he was merely fooling
                        with Daphne—that he had seen girls he liked better in New York, and was
                        simply killing time till a sportsman friend of whom he talked should appear
                        on the scene and take him off to shoot moose and catch trout in the province
                        of Quebec. Mrs. Verrier realised that, for all his lack of subtlety and the
                        higher conversation, young Barnes had managed astonishingly to keep his
                        counsel. His “simplicity,” like Daphne's, seemed to be of a special
                        type.
                    And yet—there was no doubt that he had devoted himself a great deal.
                        Washington society had quickly found him out; he had been invited to all the
                        most fastidious houses, and was immensely in request for picnics and
                        expeditions. But he had contrived, on the whole, to make all these
                        opportunities promote the flirtation with Daphne. He had, in fact, been
                        enough at her beck and call to make her the envy of a young society with
                        whom the splendid Englishman promised to
                        become the rage, and not enough to silence or wholly discourage other
                        claimants on his time.
                    This no doubt accounted for the fact that the two charming Bostonians, Mrs.
                        Maddison and her daughter, who had but lately arrived in Washington and made
                        acquaintance with Roger Barnes, were still evidently in ignorance of what
                        was going on. They were not initiated. They had invited young Barnes in the
                        innocence of their hearts, without inviting Daphne Floyd, whom they did not
                        previously know. And the young man had seen fit to accept their invitation.
                        Hence the jealousy that was clearly burning in Daphne, that she was not
                        indeed even trying to hide from the shrewd eyes of her friend.
                    Mrs. Verrier's advice not to make Roger Barnes “too important” had called up
                        a flash of colour in the girl's cheeks. But she did not resent it in words;
                        rather her silence deepened, till Mrs. Verrier stretched out a hand and
                        laughingly turned the small face towards her that she might see what was in
                        it.
                    “Daphne! I really believe you're in love with him!”
                    “Not at all,” said Daphne, her eyelids flickering; “I never know what to talk
                        to him about.”
                    “As if that mattered!”
                    “Elsie Maddison always knows what to talk to
                        him about, and he chatters to her the whole time.”
                    Mrs. Verrier paused a moment, then said: “Do you suppose he came to America
                        to marry money?”
                    “I haven't an idea.”
                    “Do you suppose he knows that you—are not exactly a pauper?”
                    Daphne drew herself away impatiently. “I really don't suppose anything,
                        Madeleine. He never talks about money, and I should think he had plenty
                        himself.”
                    Mrs. Verrier replied by giving an outline of the financial misfortunes of
                        Barnes père, as they had been described to
                        her by another English traveller in Washington.
                    Daphne listened indifferently. “He can't be very poor or he wouldn't behave
                        as he does. And he is to inherit the General's property. He told me so.”
                    “And it wouldn't matter to you, Daphne, if you did think a man had married
                        you for money?”
                    Daphne had risen, and was pacing the drawing-room floor, her hands clasped
                        behind her back. She turned a cloudy face upon her questioner. “It would
                        matter a great deal, if I thought it had been only for money. But then, I
                        hope I shouldn't have been such a fool as to marry him.”
                    
                    “But you could bear it, if the money counted for something?”
                    “I'm not an idiot!” said the girl with energy. “With whom doesn't money count
                        for something? Of course a man must take money into consideration.” There
                        was a curious touch of arrogance in the gesture which accompanied the
                        words.
                    “‘How pleasant it is to have money, heigh-ho!—How pleasant it is to have
                        money,’” said Mrs. Verrier, quoting, with a laugh. “Yes, I dare say you'd be
                        very reasonable, Daphne, about that kind of thing. But I don't think you'd
                        be a comfortable wife, dear, all the same.”
                    “What do you mean?”
                    “You might allow your husband to spare a little love to your money; you would
                        be for killing him if he ever looked at another woman!”
                    “You mean I should be jealous?” asked Daphne, almost with violence. “You are
                        quite right there. I should be very jealous. On that point I should ‘find
                        quarrel in a straw.’”
                    Her cheeks had flushed a passionate red. The eyes which she had inherited
                        from her Spanish grandmother blazed above them. She had become suddenly a
                        woman of Andalusia and the South, moved by certain primitive forces in the
                        blood.
                    
                    Madeleine Verrier held out her hands, smiling.
                    “Come here, little wild cat. I believe you are jealous of Elsie
                        Maddison.”
                    Daphne approached her slowly, and slowly dropped into a seat beside her
                        friend, her eyes still fixed and splendid. But as she looked into them
                        Madeleine Verrier saw them suddenly dimmed.
                    “Daphne! you are in love. with him!”
                    The girl recovered herself, clenching her small hands. “If I am,” she said
                        resolutely, “it is strange how like the other thing it is! I don't know
                        whether I shall speak to him to-night.”
                    “To-night?” Mrs. Verrier looked a little puzzled.
                    “At the White House. You're going, of course.”
                    “No, I am not going.” The voice was quiet and cold. “I am not asked.”
                    Daphne, vexed with herself, touched her friend's hand caressingly. “It will
                        be just a crush, dear. But I promised various people to go.”
                    “And he will be there?”
                    “I suppose so.” Daphne turned her head away, and then sprang up. “Have you
                        seen the picture?”
                    Mrs. Verrier followed her into the inner
                        room, where the girl gave a laughing and triumphant account of her
                        acquisition, the agents she had employed, the skill with which it had been
                        conveyed out of Italy, the wrath of various famous collectors, who had
                        imagined that the fight lay between them alone, when they found the prize
                        had been ravished from them. Madeleine Verrier was very intelligent, and the
                        contrast, which the story brought out, between the girl's fragile youth and
                        the strange and passionate sense of power which breathed from her whenever
                        it became a question of wealth and the use of it, was at no point lost upon
                        her companion.
                    Daphne would not allow any further talk of Roger Barnes. Her chaperon, Mrs.
                        Phillips, presently appeared, and passed through rather a bad quarter of an
                        hour while the imperious mistress of the house inquired into certain
                        invitations and card-leavings that had not been managed to her liking. Then
                        Daphne sat down to write a letter to a Girls' Club in New York, of which she
                        was President—where, in fact, she occasionally took the Singing Class, with
                        which she had made so much play at her first meeting with Roger Barnes. She
                        had to tell them that she had just engaged a holiday house for them, to
                        which they might go in instalments throughout the summer. She would pay the
                        rent, provide a lady-superintendent, and make herself responsible for all but food expenses. Her small
                        face relaxed—became quite soft and charming—as she wrote.
                    “But, my dear,” cried Mrs. Phillips in dismay, as Daphne handed her the
                        letter to read, “you have taken the house on Lake George, and you know the
                        girls had all set their hearts on that place in the White Mountains!”
                    Daphne's lips tightened. “Certainly I have taken the house on Lake George,”
                        she said, as she carefully wiped her pen. “I told them I should.”
                    “But, my dear, they are so tired of Lake George! They have been there three
                        years running. And you know they subscribe a good deal themselves.”
                    “Very well!—then let them do without my help. I have inquired into the
                        matter. The house on Lake George is much more suitable than the White
                        Mountains farm, and I have written to the agent. The thing's done.”
                    Mrs. Phillips argued a little more, but Daphne was immovable.
                    Mrs. Verrier, watching the two, reflected, as she had often done before, that
                        Mrs. Phillips's post was not particularly enviable. Daphne treated her in
                        many ways with great generosity, paid her highly, grudged her no luxury, and
                        was always courteous to her in public. But in private Daphne's will was law,
                        and she had an abrupt and dictatorial way
                        of asserting it that brought the red back into Mrs. Phillips's faded cheeks.
                        Mrs. Verrier had often expected her to throw up her post. But there was no
                        doubt something in Daphne's personality which made life beside her too full
                        of colour to be lightly abandoned.
                    Daphne presently went upstairs to take off her walking-dress, and Mrs.
                        Phillips, with a rather troubled face, began to tidy the confusion of
                        letters she had left behind her.
                    “I dare say the girls won't mind,” said Madeleine Verrier, kindly.
                    Mrs. Phillips started, and her mild lips quivered a little. Daphne's
                        charities were for Daphne an amusement; for this gentle, faded woman, who
                        bore all the drudgery of them, they were the chief attraction of life in
                        Daphne's house. Mrs. Phillips loved the club-girls, and the thought of their
                        disappointment pained her.
                    “I must try and put it to them,” was her patient reply.
                    “Daphne must always have her way,” Madeleine went on, smiling. “I wonder what
                        she'll do when she marries.”
                    Mrs. Phillips looked up quickly.
                    “I hope it'll be the right man, Mrs. Verrier. Of course, with anyone so—so
                        clever—and so used to managing everything
                        for herself—one would be a little anxious.”
                    Mrs. Verrier's expression changed. A kind of wildness—fanaticism—invaded it,
                        as of one recalling a mission. “Oh, well, nothing is irrevocable nowadays,”
                        she said, almost with violence. “Still, I hope Daphne won't make a
                        mistake.”
                    Mrs. Phillips looked at her companion, at first in astonishment. Then a
                        change passed over her face. With a cold excuse she left Mrs. Verrier
                        alone.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER IV
                    THE reception at the White House was being given in honour
                        of the delegates to a Peace Congress. The rooms were full without being
                        inconveniently crowded, and the charming house opened its friendly doors to
                        a society more congruous and organic, richer also in the nobler kind of
                        variety than America, perhaps, can offer to her guests elsewhere. What the
                        opera and international finance are to New York, politics and administration
                        are, as we all know, to Washington. And the visitor from Europe,
                        conversationally starved for want of what seem to him the only topics worth
                        discussing, finds himself within hearing once more of ministers, cabinets,
                        embassies, and parliamentary gossip. Even General Hobson had come to admit
                        that—especially for the middle-aged—Washington parties were extremely
                        agreeable. The young and foolish might sigh for the flesh-pots of New York;
                        those on whom “the black ox had trodden,” who were at all aware what a vast
                        tormenting, multitudinous, and headstrong world man has been given to
                        inhabit; those who were engaged in governing any part of that world, or meant some day to be thus engaged; for
                        them Washington was indispensable, and New York a mere entertainment.
                    Moreover Washington, at this time of the world's history, was the scene of
                        one of those episodes—those brisker moments in the human comedy—which every
                        now and then revive among us an almost forgotten belief in personality, an
                        almost forgotten respect for the mysteries behind it. The guests streaming
                        through the White House defiled past a man who, in a level and docketed
                        world, appeared to his generation as the reincarnation of forces primitive,
                        over-mastering, and heroic. An honest Odysseus!—toil-worn and storm-beaten,
                        yet still with the spirit and strength, the many devices, of a boy; capable
                        like his prototype in one short day of crushing his enemies, upholding his
                        friends, purifying his house; and then, with the heat of righteous battle
                        still upon him, with its gore, so to speak, still upon his hands, of turning
                        his mind, without a pause and without hypocrisy, to things intimate and soft
                        and pure—the domestic sweetness of Penelope, the young promise of
                        Telemachus. The President stood, a rugged figure, amid the cosmopolitan
                        crowd, breasting the modern world, like some ocean headland, yet not truly
                        of it, one of the great fighters and workers of mankind, with a laugh that
                        pealed above the noise, blue eyes that
                        seemed to pursue some converse of their own, and a hand that grasped and
                        cheered, where other hands withdrew and repelled. This one man's will had
                        now, for some years, made the pivot on which vast issues turned—issues of
                        peace and war, of policy embracing the civilised world; and, here, one saw
                        him in drawing-rooms, discussing Alaric's campaigns with an Oxford
                        professor, or chatting with a young mother about her children.
                    Beside him, the human waves, as they met and parted, disclosed a woman's
                        face, modelled by nature in one of her lightest and deftest moods, a trifle
                        detached, humorous also, as though the world's strange sights stirred a
                        gentle and kindly mirth behind its sweet composure. The dignity of the
                        President's wife was complete, yet it had not extinguished the personality
                        it clothed; and where royalty, as the European knows it, would have donned
                        its mask and stood on its defence, Republican royalty dared to be its
                        amused, confiding, natural self.
                    All around—the political, diplomatic world of Washington. General Hobson, as
                        he passed through it, greeted by what was now a large acquaintance, found
                        himself driven once more to the inward confession—the grudging confession—as
                        though Providence had not played him fair in extorting it—that American 
                            poli-
                            politicians
                         ticians were of a vastly finer
                        stamp than he had expected to find them. The American press was all—he
                        vowed—that fancy had painted it, and more. But, as he looked about him at
                        the members of the President's administration—at this tall, black-haired
                        man, for instance, with the mild and meditative eye, the equal, social or
                        intellectual, of any Foreign Minister that Europe might pit against him, or
                        any diplomat that might be sent to handle him; or this younger man, sparely
                        built, with the sane, handsome face—son of a famous father, modest, amiable,
                        efficient; or this other, of huge bulk and height, the sport of caricature,
                        the hope of a party, smiling already a presidential smile as he passed,
                        observed and beset, through the crowded rooms; or these naval or military
                        men, with their hard serviceable looks, and the curt good manners of their
                        kind:—the General saw as clearly as anybody else, that America need make no
                        excuses whatever for her best men, that she has evolved the leaders she
                        wants, and Europe has nothing to teach them.
                    He could only console himself by the remembrance of a speech, made by a
                        well-known man, at a military function which the General had attended as a
                        guest of honour the day before. There at last was the real thing! The real,
                        Yankee, spread-eagle thing! The General positively hugged the thought of
                        it.
                    
                    “The American soldier,” said the speaker, standing among the ambassadors, the
                        naval and military attachés, of all the
                        European nations, “is the superior of all other soldiers in three
                        respects—bravery, discipline, intelligence.”
                    Bravery, discipline, intelligence! Just those—the merest trifle!
                        The General had found himself chuckling over it in the visions of the
                        night.
                    Tired at last of these various impressions, acting on a mind not quite alert
                        enough to deal with them, the General went in search of his nephew. Roger
                        had been absent all day, and the General had left the hotel before his
                        return. But the uncle was sure that he would sooner or later put in an
                        appearance.
                    It was of course entirely on Roger's account that this unwilling guest of
                        America was her guest still. For three weeks now had the General been
                        watching the affair between Roger and Daphne Floyd. It had gone with such a
                        rush at first, such a swing and fervour, that the General had felt that any
                        day might bring the dénouement. It was
                        really impossible to desert the lad at such a crisis, especially as Laura
                        was so excitable and anxious, and so sure to make her brother pay for it if
                        he failed to support her views and ambitions at the right moment. The
                        General moreover felt the absolute necessity of getting to know something more about Miss Floyd, her character, the
                        details of her fortune and antecedents, so that when the great moment came
                        he might be prepared.
                    But the astonishing thing was that of late the whole affair seemed to have
                        come to some stupid hitch! Roger had been behaving like a very cool hand—too
                        cool by half in the General's opinion. What the deuce did he mean by hanging
                        about these Boston ladies, if his affections were really fixed on Miss
                        Daphne?—or his ambitions, which to the uncle seemed nearer the truth.
                    “Well, where is the nephew?” said Cecilia Boyson's voice in his ear.
                    The General turned. He saw a sharp, though still young face, a thin and
                        willowy figure, attired in white silk, a pince-nez on the high-pitched nose, and a cool smile.
                        Unconsciously his back stiffened. Miss Boyson invariably roused in him a
                        certain masculine antagonism.
                    “I should be glad if you would tell me,” he said, with some formality. “There
                        are two or three people here to whom he should be introduced.”
                    “Has he been picnicking with the Maddisons?” The voice was shrill, perhaps
                        malicious.
                    “I believe they took him to Arlington, and somewhere else afterwards.”
                    
                    “Ah,” said Cecilia, “there they are.”
                    The General looked towards the door and saw his nephew enter, behind a mother
                        and daughter whom, as it seemed to him, their acquaintances in the crowd
                        around them greeted with a peculiar cordiality; the mother, still young,
                        with a stag-like carriage of the head, a long throat, swathed in white
                        tulle, and grizzled hair, on which shone a spray of diamonds; the daughter,
                        equally tall and straight, repeating her mother's beauty with a bloom and
                        radiance of her own. Innocent and happy, with dark eyes and a soft mouth,
                        Miss Maddison dropped a little curtsey to the presidential pair, and the
                        room turned to look at her as she did so.
                    “A very sweet-looking girl,” said the General warmly. “Her father is, I
                        think, a professor.”
                    “He was. He is now just a writer of books. But Elsie was brought up in
                        Cambridge. How did Mr. Roger know them?”
                    “His Eton tutor told him to go and see them.”
                    “I thought Miss Floyd expected him to-day?” said Miss Boyson carelessly,
                        adjusting her eyeglass.
                    “It was a mistake, a misunderstanding,” replied the General hurriedly. “Miss
                        Floyd's party is put off till next week.”
                    “Daphne is just coming in,” said Miss Boyson.
                    
                    The General turned again. The watchful Cecilia was certain that
                            he was not in love with Daphne. But the nephew—the
                        inordinately handsome, and by now much-courted young man—what was the real
                        truth about him?
                    Cecilia recognised—with Mrs. Verrier—that merely to put the question involved
                        a certain tribute to young Barnes. He had at any rate done his
                        fortune-hunting, if fortune-hunting it were, with decorum.
                    “Miss Floyd is looking well to-night,” remarked the General.
                    Cecilia did not reply. She and a great part of the room were engaged in
                        watching Roger Barnes and Miss Maddison walking together through a space
                        which seemed to have been cleared on purpose for them, but was really the
                        result of a move towards the supper-room.
                    “Was there ever such a pair?” said an enthusiastic voice behind the General.
                        “Athene and Apollo take the floor!” A grey-haired journalist with a small,
                        bewrinkled face, buried in whiskers and beard, laid a hand on the General's
                        arm as he spoke.
                    The General smiled vaguely. “Do you know Mrs. and Miss Maddison?”
                    “Rather!” said the little man. “Miss Elsie's a wonder! As pretty and soft as
                        they make them, and a Greek scholar besides—took all sorts of honours at Radcliffe last year. I've
                        known her from her cradle.”
                    “What a number of your girls go to college!” said the General, but
                        ungraciously, in the tones of one who no sooner saw an American custom
                        emerging than his instinct was to hit it.
                    “Yes; it's a feature of our modern life—the life of our women. But not the
                        most significant one, by a long way.”
                    The General could not help a look of inquiry.
                    The journalist's face changed from gay to grave. “The most significant thing
                        in American life just now—”
                    “I know!” interrupted the General. “Your divorce laws!”
                    The journalist shook his head. “It goes deeper than that. What we're looking
                        on at is a complete transformation of the idea of marriage—”
                    A movement in the crowd bore the speaker away. The General was left watching
                        the beautiful pair in the distance. They were apparently quite unconscious
                        that they roused any special attention. Laughing and chatting like two
                        children, they passed into the supper-room and disappeared.
                    Ten minutes later, in the supper-room, Barnes deserted the two ladies with
                        whom he had entered, and went in pursuit of a girl in white, whose necklace,
                        of star sapphires in a Spanish setting of
                        the seventeenth century, had at once caught the eye of the judicious. Roger,
                        however, knew nothing of jewels, and was only conscious as he approached
                        Miss Floyd, first of the mingling in his own mind of something like
                        embarrassment with something like defiance, and then, of the glitter in the
                        girl's dark eyes.
                    “I hope you had an interesting debate,” he said. “Mrs. Phillips tells me you
                        went to the Senate.”
                    Daphne looked him up and down. “Did I?” she said slowly. “I've forgotten.
                        Will you move, please? There's someone bringing me an ice.” And turning her
                        back on Roger, she smiled and beckoned to the Under-Secretary, who with a
                        triumphant face was making his way to her through the crowd.
                    Roger coloured hotly. “May I bring Mrs. Maddison?” he said, passing her; “she
                        would like to talk to you about a party for next week—”
                    “Thank you. I am just going home.” And with an energetic movement she freed
                        herself from him, and was soon in the gayest of talk with the
                        Under-Secretary.
                    The reception broke up some time after midnight, and on the way home General
                        Hobson attempted a raid upon his nephew's intentions.
                    “I don't wish to seem an intrusive person,
                         my dear Roger, but may I ask how much
                        longer you mean to stay in Washington?”
                    The tone was short and the look which accompanied the words not without
                        sarcasm. Roger, who had been walking beside his companion, still deeply
                        flushed, in complete silence, gave an awkward laugh.
                    “And as for you, Uncle Archie, I thought you meant to sail a fortnight ago.
                        If you've been staying on like this on my account—”
                    “Don't make a fool either of me or yourself, Roger!” said the General
                        hastily, roused at last to speech by the annoyance of the situation. “Of
                        course it was on your account that I have stayed on. But what on earth it
                        all means, and where your affairs are—I'm hanged if I have the glimmer of an
                        idea!”
                    Roger's smile was perfectly good-humoured.
                    “I haven't much myself,” he said quietly.
                    “Do you—or do you not—mean to propose to Miss Floyd?” cried the General,
                        pausing in the centre of Lafayette Square, now all but deserted, and
                        apostrophising with his umbrella—for the night was soft and rainy—the
                        presidential statue above his head.
                    “Have I given you reason to suppose that I was going to do so?” said Roger
                        slowly.
                    “Given me?—given everybody reason?—of course you have!—a dozen times over. I
                        don't like interfering with your affairs, Roger —with any young man's affairs—but you must know
                        that you have set Washington talking, and it's not fair to a girl—by George
                        it isn't!—when she has given you encouragement and you have made her
                        conspicuous, to begin the same story, in the same place, immediately, with
                        someone else! As you say, I ought to have taken myself off long ago.”
                    “I didn't say anything of the kind,” said Roger hotly; “you shouldn't put
                        words into my mouth, Uncle Archie. And I really don't see why you attack me
                        like this. My tutor particularly asked me, if I came across them, to be
                        civil to Mrs. Maddison and her daughter, and I have done nothing but pay
                        them the most ordinary attentions.”
                    “When a man is in love he pays no ordinary attentions. He has eyes for no one
                        but the lady.” The General's umbrella, as it descended from the face of
                        Andrew Jackson and rattled on the flagged path, supplied each word with
                        emphasis. “However, it is no good talking, and I don't exactly know why I
                        should put my old oar in. But the fact is I feel a certain responsibility.
                        People here have been uncommonly civil. Well, well!—I've wired to-day to ask
                        if there is a berth left in the Venetia for Saturday. And you,
                        I suppose”—the inquiry was somewhat peremptory—“will be going back to New
                        York?”
                    
                    “I have no intention of leaving Washington just yet,” said Roger, with
                        decision.
                    “And may I ask what you intend to do here?”
                    Roger laughed. “I really think that's my business. However, you've been an
                        awful brick, Uncle Archie, to stay on like this. I assure you, if I don't
                        say much, I think it.”
                    By this time they had reached the hotel, the steps and hall of which were
                        full of people.
                    “That's how you put me off.” The General's tone was resentful. “And you won't
                        give me any idea of the line I am to take with your mother?”
                    The young man smiled again and waved an evasive hand.
                    “If you'll only be patient a little longer, Uncle Archie—”
                    At this point an acquaintance of the General's who was smoking in the hall
                        came forward to greet him, and Roger made his escape.
                    “Well, what the deuce do I mean to do?”
                    Barnes asked himself the question deliberately. He was hanging out of the
                        window in his bedroom, smoking and pondering.
                    It was a mild and rainy night. Washington was full of the earth and leaf
                        odours of the spring, which rose in gusts from its trees and gardens; and
                        rugged, swiftly moving clouds disclosed
                        every now and then what looked like hurrying stars.
                    The young man was excited and on edge. Daphne Floyd—and the thought of Daphne
                        Floyd—had set his pulses hammering; they challenged in him the aggressive,
                        self-assertive, masculine force. The history of the preceding three weeks
                        was far from simple. He had first paid a determined court to her, conducting
                        it in an orthodox, English, conspicuous way. His mother, and her
                        necessities—his own also—imposed it on him; and he flung himself into it,
                        setting his teeth. Then, to his astonishment, one may almost say to his
                        disconcerting, he found the prey all at once, and, as it were, without a
                        struggle, fluttering to his lure, and practically within his grasp. There
                        was an evening when Daphne's sudden softness, the look in her eyes, the
                        inflection in her voice had fairly thrown him off his balance. For the first
                        time he had shown a lack of self-command and self-possession. Whereupon, in
                        a flash, a new and strange Daphne had developed—imperious, difficult,
                        incalculable. The more he gave, the more she claimed. Nor was it mere
                        girlish caprice. The young Englishman, invited to a game that he had never
                        yet played, felt in it something sinister and bewildering. Gropingly, he
                        divined in front of him a future of tyranny on her side, of expected
                        submission on his. The Northern character
                        in him, with its reserve, its phlegm, its general sanity, began to shrink
                        from the Southern elements in her. He became aware of the depths in her
                        nature, of things volcanic and primitive, and the English stuff in him
                        recoiled.
                    So he was to be bitted and bridled, it seemed, in the future. Daphne Floyd
                        would have bought him with her dollars, and he would have to pay the
                        price.
                    Something natural and wild in him said No! If he married this girl he would
                        be master, in spite of her money. He realised vaguely, at any rate, the
                        strength of her will, and the way in which it had been tempered and steeled
                        by circumstance. But the perception only roused in himself some slumbering
                        tenacities and vehemences of which he had been scarcely aware. So that,
                        almost immediately—since there was no glamour of passion on his side—he
                        began to resent her small tyrannies, to draw in, and draw back. A few
                        quarrels—not ordinary lovers' quarrels, but representing a true grapple of
                        personalities—sprang up behind a screen of trifles. Daphne was once more
                        rude and provoking, Roger cool and apparently indifferent. This was the
                        stage when Mrs. Verrier had become an admiring observer of what she supposed
                        to be his “tactics.” But she knew nothing of the curious little crisis which
                        had preceded them.
                    
                    Then the Maddisons, mother and daughter, “my tutor's friends,” had appeared
                        upon the scene—charming people! Of course civilities were due to them, and
                        had to be paid them. Next to his mother—and to the girl of the orchard—the
                        affections of this youth, who was morally backward and immature, but neither
                        callous nor fundamentally selfish, had been chiefly given to a certain Eton
                        master, of a type happily not uncommon in English public schools. Herbert
                        French had been Roger's earliest and best friend. What Roger had owed him at
                        school, only he knew. Since school-days they had been constant
                        correspondents, and French's influence on his pupil's early manhood had done
                        much, for all Roger's laziness and self-indulgence, to keep him from serious
                        lapses.
                    Neglect any friends of his—and such jolly friends? Rather not! But as soon as
                        Daphne had seen Elsie Maddison, and he had begged an afternoon to go an
                        expedition with them, Daphne had become intolerable. She had shown her
                        English friend and his acquaintances a manner so insulting and provocative,
                        that the young man's blood had boiled.
                    If he were in love with her—well and good! She might no doubt have tamed him
                        by these stripes. But she was no goddess to him; no golden cloud enveloped
                        her; he saw her under a common daylight. At
                        the same time she attracted him; he was vain of what had seemed his
                        conquest, and uneasily exultant in the thought of her immense fortune. “I'll
                        make her an excellent husband if she marries me,” he said to himself
                        stubbornly; “I can, and I will.”
                    But meanwhile how was this first stage to end? At the White House that night
                        Daphne had treated him with contumely, and before spectators. He must either
                        go or bring her to the point.
                    He withdrew suddenly from the window, flinging out the end of his cigarette.
                        “I'll propose to her to-morrow—and she may either take me or leave me!”
                    He paced up and down his room, conscious of relief and fresh energy. As he
                        did so his eyes were drawn to a letter from Herbert French lying on the
                        table. He took it up and read it again—smiling over it broadly, in a boyish
                        and kindly amusement. “By Jove! he's happy.”
                    Then as he put it down his face darkened. There was something in the letter,
                        in its manliness and humour, its unconscious revelation of ideals wholly
                        independent of dollars, that made Roger for the moment loathe his own
                        position. But he pulled himself together.
                    “I shall make her a good husband,” he
                        repeated, frowning. “She'll have nothing to complain of.”
                    On the following day a picnic among the woods of the Upper Potomac brought
                        together most of the personages in this history. The day was beautiful, the
                        woods fragrant with spring leaf and blossom, and the stream, swollen with
                        rain, ran seaward in a turbid, rejoicing strength.
                    The General, having secured his passage home, was in good spirits as far as
                        his own affairs were concerned, though still irritable on the score of his
                        nephew's. Since the abortive attempt on his confidence of the night before,
                        Roger had avoided all private conversation with his uncle; and for once the
                        old had to learn patience from the young.
                    The party was given by the wife of one of the staff of the French Embassy—a
                        young Frenchwoman, as gay and frank as her babies, and possessed, none the
                        less, of all the social arts of her nation. She had taken a shrewd interest
                        in the matter of Daphne Floyd and the Englishman. Daphne, according to her,
                        should be promptly married and her millions taken care of, and the handsome,
                        broad-shouldered fellow impressed the little Frenchwomnan's imagination as a
                        proper and capable watchdog. She had indeed become aware that something was wrong, but her acuteness entirely
                        refused to believe that it had any vital connection with the advent of
                        pretty Elsie Maddison. Meanwhile, to please Daphne, whom she liked, while
                        conscious of a strong and frequent desire to smite her, Madame de Fronsac
                        had invited Mrs. Verrier, treating her with a cold and punctilious courtesy
                        that, as applied to any other guest, would have seemed an affront.
                    In vain, however, did the hostess, in vain did other kindly bystanders,
                        endeavour to play the game of Daphne Floyd. In the first place Daphne
                        herself, though piped unto, refused to dance. She avoided the society of
                        Roger Barnes in a pointed and public way, bright colour on her cheeks and a
                        wild light in her eyes; the Under-Secretary escorted her and carried her
                        wrap. Washington did not know what to think. For, owing to this conduct of
                        Daphne's, the charming Boston girl, the other ingénue of the party, fell constantly to the care of young
                        Barnes; and to see them stepping along the green ways together, matched
                        almost in height, and clearly of the same English ancestry and race, pleased
                        while it puzzled the spectators.
                    The party lunched in a little inn beside the river, and then scattered again
                        along woodland paths. Daphne and the Under-Secretary wandered on ahead and
                        were some distance from the rest of the
                        party when that gentleman suddenly looked at his watch in dismay. An
                        appointment had to be kept with the President at a certain hour, and the
                        Under-Secretary's wits had been wandering. There was nothing for it but to
                        take a short cut through the woods to a local station and make at once for
                        Washington.
                    Daphne quickened his uneasiness and hastened his departure. She assured him
                        that the others were close behind, and that nothing could suit her better
                        than to rest on a mossy stone that happily presented itself till they
                        arrived.
                    The Under-Secretary, transformed into the anxious and ambitious politician,
                        abruptly left her.
                    Daphne, as soon as he was gone, allowed herself the natural attitude that
                        fitted her thoughts. She was furiously in love and torn with jealousy; and
                        that love and jealousy could smart so, and cling so, was a strange
                        revelation to one accustomed to make a world entirely to her liking. Her
                        dark eyes were hollow, her small mouth had lost its colour, and she showed
                        that touch of something wasting and withering that Theocritan Shepherds knew
                        in old Sicilian days. It was as though she had defied a god—and the god had
                        avenged himself.
                    Suddenly he appeared—the teasing divinity
                         —in human shape. There was a rustling
                        among the brushwood fringing the river. Roger Barnes emerged and made his
                        way up towards her.
                    “I've been stalking you all this time,” he said, breathless, as he reached
                        her, “and now, at last—I've caught you!”
                    Daphne rose furiously. “What right have you to stalk me, as you call it?—to
                        follow me—to speak to me even? I wish to avoid you—and I have shown it!”
                    Roger looked at her. He had thrown down his hat, and she saw him against the
                        background of sunny wood, as the magnificent embodiment of its youth and
                        force. “And why have you shown it?” There was a warning tremor of excitement
                        in his voice. “What have I done? I haven't deserved it! You treat me
                        like—like a friend—and then you drop me—like a hot coal! You've been awfully
                        unkind to me!”
                    “I won't discuss it with you,” she cried passionately. “You are in my way,
                        Mr. Barnes. Let me go back to the others!” And stretching out a small hand,
                        she tried to put him aside.
                    Roger hesitated, but only for a moment. He caught the hand, he gathered its
                        owner into a pair of strong arms, and bending over her, he kissed her.
                        Daphne, suffocated with anger and emotion, broke from him—tottering. Then
                        sinking on the ground beneath a tree, she burst into sobbing. Roger, scarlet, with sparkling
                        eyes, dropped on one knee beside her.
                    “Daphne, I'm a ruffian! Forgive me! you must, Daphne! Look here, I want you
                        to marry me. I've nothing to offer you, of course; I'm a poor man, and
                        you've all this horrible money! But I—I love you!—and I'll make you a good
                        husband, Daphne, that I'll swear. If you'll take me, you shall never be
                        sorry for it.”
                    He looked at her again, sorely embarrassed, hating himself, yet, after all,
                        inwardly sure of her. Her small frame shook with weeping. And presently she
                        turned from him and said in a fierce voice:
                    “Go and tell all that to Elsie Maddison!”
                    Infinitely relieved, Roger gave a quick, excited laugh.
                    “She'd soon send me about my business! I should be a day too late for the
                        fair, in that quarter. What do you think she and I have been
                        talking about all this time, Daphne?”
                    “I don't care!” said Daphne hastily, with face still averted.
                    “I'm going to tell you, all the same,” cried Roger triumphantly, and diving
                        into his coat pocket he produced “my tutor's letter.” Daphne sat immovable,
                        and he had to read it aloud himself. It contained the rapturous account of
                        Herbert French's engagement to Miss Maddison, a happy event which had
                            taken place in England during the Eton
                        holidays, about a month before this date.
                    “There!” cried the young man as he finished it. “And she's talked about
                        nothing all the time, nothing at all—but old Herbert—and how good he is—and
                        how good-looking, and the Lord knows what! I got precious sick of it, though
                        I think he's a trump, too. Oh, Daphne!—you were a little fool!”
                    “All the same, you have behaved abominably!” Daphne said, still choking.
                    “No, I haven't,” was Roger's firm reply. “It was you who were so cross. I
                        couldn't tell you anything. I say! you do know how to stick pins into
                        people!”
                    But he took up her hand and kissed it as he spoke.
                    Daphne allowed it. Her breast heaved as the storm departed. And she looked so
                        charming, so soft, so desirable, as she sat there in her white dress, with
                        her great tear-washed eyes and fluttering breath, that the youth was really
                        touched and carried off his feet; and the rest of his task was quite easy.
                        All the familiar things that had to be said were said, and with all the
                        proper emphasis and spirit. He played his part, the spring woods played
                        theirs, and Daphne, worn out by emotion and conquered by passion, gradually
                        betrayed herself wholly. And so much at least may be said to the man's
                            credit that there were certainly
                        moments in the half-hour between them when, amid the rush of talk, laughter,
                        and caresses, that conscience which he owed so greatly to the exertions of
                        “my tutor” pricked him not a little.
                    After losing themselves deliberately in the woods, they strolled back to join
                        the rest of the party. The sounds of conversation were already audible
                        through the trees in front of them, when they saw Mrs. Verrier coming
                        towards them. She was walking alone and did not perceive them. Her eyes were
                        raised and fixed, as though on some sight in front of them. The bitterness,
                        the anguish, one might almost call it, of her expression, the horror in the
                        eyes, as of one ghost-led, ghost-driven, drew an exclamation from Roger.
                    “There's Mrs. Verrier! Why, how ill she looks!”
                    Daphne paused, gazed, and shrank. She drew him aside through the trees.
                    “Let's go another way. Madeleine's often strange.” And with a superstitious
                        pang she wished that Madeleine Verrier's face had not been the first to meet
                        her in this hour of her betrothal.
                
            
            
                
                PART II
                THREE YEARS AFTER
                
                    “L'occasion fait le larron”
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER V
                    IN the drawing-room at Heston Park two ladies were seated.
                        One was a well-preserved woman of fifty, with a large oblong face, good
                        features, a double chin, and abundant grey hair arranged in waved bandeaux above a forehead which should
                        certainly have implied strength of character, and a pair of challenging
                        black eyes. Lady Barnes moved and spoke with authority; it was evident that
                        she had been accustomed to do so all her life; to trail silk gowns over
                        Persian carpets, to engage expensive cooks and rely on expensive butlers,
                        with a strict attention to small economies all the time; to impose her will
                        on her household and the clergyman of the parish; to give her opinions on
                        books, and expect them to be listened to; to abstain from politics as
                        unfeminine, and to make up for it by the strongest of views on Church
                        questions. She belonged to an English type common throughout all
                        classes—quite harmless and tolerable when things go well, but apt to be
                        soured and twisted by adversity.
                    And Lady Barnes, it will be remembered, had
                        known adversity. Not much of it, nor for long together; but in her own
                        opinion she had gone through “great trials,” to the profit of her Christian
                        character. She was quite certain, now, that everything had been for the
                        best, and that Providence makes no mistakes. But that, perhaps, was because
                        the “trials” had only lasted about a year; and then, so far as they were
                        pecuniary, the marriage of her son with Miss Daphne Floyd had entirely
                        relieved her of them. For Roger now made her a handsome allowance, and the
                        chastened habits of a most uncomfortable year had been hastily
                        abandoned.
                    Nevertheless, Lady Barnes's aspect on this autumn afternoon was not cheerful,
                        and her companion was endeavouring, with a little kind embarrassment, both
                        to soothe an evident irritation and to avoid the confidences that Roger's
                        mother seemed eager to pour out. Elsie French, whom Washington had known
                        three years before as Elsie Maddison, was in that bloom of young married
                        life when all that was lovely in the girl seems to be still lingering, while
                        yet love and motherhood have wrought once more their old transforming
                        miracle on sense and spirit. In her afternoon dress of dainty sprigged silk,
                        with just a touch of austerity in the broad muslin collar and cuffs—her
                        curly brown hair simply parted on her brow,
                        and gathered classically on a shapely head—her mouth a little troubled, her
                        brow a little puckered over Lady Barnes's discontents—she was a very
                        gracious vision. Yet behind the gentleness, as even Lady Barnes knew, there
                        were qualities and characteristics of a singular strength.
                    Lady Barnes indeed was complaining, and could not be stopped.
                    “You see, dear Mrs. French,” she was saying in a rapid, lowered voice, and
                        with many glances at the door, “the trouble is that Daphne is never
                        satisfied. She has some impossible ideal in her mind, and then everything
                        must be sacrificed to it. She began with going into ecstasies over this dear
                        old house, and now!—there's scarcely a thing in it she does not want to
                        change. Poor Edward and I spent thousands upon it, and we really flattered
                        ourselves that we had some taste; but it is not good enough for Daphne!”
                    The speaker settled herself in her chair with a slight but emphatic clatter
                        of bangles and rustle of skirts.
                    “It's the ceilings, isn't it?” murmured Elsie French, glancing at the heavy
                        decoration, the stucco bosses and pendants above her head, which had
                        replaced, some twenty years before, a piece of Adam design, sparing and
                        felicitous.
                    “It's everything!” Lady Barnes's tone was
                        now more angry than fretful. “I don't, of course, like to say it—but really
                        Daphne's self-confidence is too amazing!”
                    “She does know so much,” said Elsie French reflectively. “Doesn't she?”
                    “Well, if you call it knowing. She can always get some tiresome person, whom
                        she calls an ‘expert,’ to back her up. But I believe in liking what you
                            do like, and not being bullied into what you don't
                        like!”
                    “I suppose if one studies these things—” Elsie French began timidly.
                    “What's the good of studying!” cried Lady Barnes; “one has one's own taste,
                        or one hasn't.”
                    Confronted with this form of the Absolute, Elsie French looked perplexed;
                        especially as her own artistic sympathies were mainly with Daphne. The
                        situation was certainly awkward. At the time of the Barnes's financial
                        crash, and Sir Edward Barnes's death, Heston Park, which belonged to Lady
                        Barnes, was all that remained to her and her son. A park of a hundred acres
                        and a few cottages went with the house; but there was no estate to support
                        it, and it had to be let, to provide an income for the widow and the boy.
                        Much of the expensive furniture had been sold before letting, but enough
                        remained to satisfy the wants of a not very exacting tenant.
                    Lady Barnes had then departed to weep in
                        exile on a pittance of about seven hundred a year. But with the marriage of
                        her son to Miss Floyd and her millions, the mother's thoughts had turned
                        fondly back to Heston Park. It was too big for her, of course; but the young
                        people clearly must redeem it, and settle there. And Daphne had been quite
                        amenable. The photographs charmed her. The house, she said, was evidently in
                        a pure style, and it would be a delight to make it habitable again. The
                        tenant, however, had a lease, and refused to turn out until at last Daphne
                        had frankly bribed him to go. And now, after three years of married life,
                        during which the young couple had rented various “places,” besides their
                        house in London and a villa at Tunis, Heston Park had been vacated, Daphne
                        and Roger had descended upon it—as Lady Barnes's tenants at a high
                        rent—intent upon its restoration; and Roger's mother had been invited to
                        their councils.
                    Hence, indeed, these tears. When Daphne first stepped inside the ancestral
                        mansion of the Trescoes—such had been Lady Barnes's maiden name—she had
                        received a severe shock. The outside, the shell of the house—delightful! But
                        inside!—heavens! what taste, what decoration—what ruin of a beautiful thing!
                        Half the old mantelpieces gone, the ceilings spoilt, the decorations “busy,”
                        pretentious, overdone, and nothing left to
                        console her but an ugly row of bad Lelys and worse Highmores—the most
                        despicable collection of family portraits she had ever set eyes upon!
                    Roger had looked unhappy. “It was father and mother did it,” he admitted
                        penitently. “But after all, Daphne, you know they are
                        Trescoes!”—this with a defensive and protecting glance at the Lelys.
                    Daphne was sorry for it. Her mouth tightened, and certain lines appeared
                        about it which already prophesied what the years would make of the young
                        face. Yet it was a pretty mouth—the mouth, above all, of one with no doubts
                        at all as to her place and rights in the world. Lady Barnes had pronounced
                        it “common” in her secret thoughts before she had known its owner six weeks.
                        But the adjective had never yet escaped the “bulwark of the teeth.”
                        Outwardly the mother and daughter-in-law were still on good terms. It was
                        indeed but a week since the son and his wife had arrived—with their baby
                        girl—at Heston Park, after a summer of yachting and fishing in Norway; since
                        Lady Barnes had journeyed thither from London to meet them; and Mr. and Mrs.
                        French had accepted an urgent invitation from Roger, quite sufficiently
                        backed by Daphne, to stay for a few days with Mr. French's old pupil, before
                        the reopening of Eton.
                    
                    During that time there had been no open quarrels of any kind; but Elsie
                        French was a sensitive creature, and she had been increasingly aware of
                        friction and annoyance behind the scenes. And now here was Lady Barnes let
                        loose! and Daphne might appear at any moment, before she could be
                        re-caged.
                    “She puts you down so!” cried that lady, making gestures with the paper-knife
                        she had just been employing on the pages of a Mudie book. “If I tell her
                        that something or other—it doesn't matter what—cost at least a great deal of
                        money, she has a way of smiling at you that is positively insulting! She
                        doesn't trouble to argue; she begins to laugh, and raises her eyebrows. I—I
                        always feel as if she had struck me in the face! I know I oughtn't to speak
                        like this; I hadn't meant to do it, especially to a country-woman of hers,
                        as you are.”
                    “Am I?” said Elsie, in a puzzled voice.
                    Lady Barnes opened her eyes in astonishment.
                    “I meant”—the explanation was hurried—“I thought—Mrs. Barnes was a South
                        American? Her mother was Spanish, of course; you see it in Daphne.”
                    “Yes; in her wonderful eyes,” said Mrs. French warmly; “and her grace—isn't
                        she graceful! My husband says she moves like a sea-wave. She has given her
                        eyes to the child.”
                    
                    “Ah! and other things too, I'm afraid!” cried Lady Barnes, carried away. “But
                        here is the baby.”
                    For the sounds of a childish voice were heard echoing in the domed hall
                        outside. Small feet came pattering, and the drawing-room door was burst open
                        by Roger Barnes, holding a little girl of nearly two and a half by the
                        hand.
                    Lady Barnes composed herself. It is necessary to smile at children, and she
                        endeavoured to satisfy her own sense of it.
                    “Come in, Beatty; come and kiss granny!” And Lady Barnes held out her
                        arms.
                    But the child stood still, surveyed her grandmother with a pair of startling
                        eyes, and then, turning, made a rush for the door. But her father was too
                        quick for her. He closed it with a laugh, and stood with his back to it. The
                        child did not cry, but, with flaming cheeks, she began to beat her father's
                        knees with her small fists.
                    “Go and kiss granny, darling,” said Roger, stroking her dark head.
                    Beatty turned again, put both her hands behind her, and stood immovable.
                    “Not kiss granny,” she said firmly. “Don't love granny.”
                    “Oh, Beatty”—Mrs. French knelt down beside her—“come and be a good little
                        girl, and I'll show you picture-books.”
                    
                    “I not Beatty—I Jemima Ann,” said the small thin voice. “Not be a dood
                        dirl—do upstairs.”
                    She looked at her father again, and then, evidently perceiving that he was
                        not to be moved by force, she changed her tactics. Her delicate, elfish face
                        melted into the sweetest smile; she stood on tiptoe, holding out to him her
                        tiny arms. With a laugh of irrepressible pride and pleasure, Roger stooped
                        to her and lifted her up. She nestled on his shoulder—a small odalisque,
                        dark, lithe, and tawny, beside her handsome, fair-skinned father. And
                        Roger's manner of holding and caressing her showed the passionate affection
                        with which he regarded her.
                    He again urged her to kiss her grandmother; but the child again shook her
                        head. “Then,” said he craftily, “father must kiss granny.” And he began to
                        cross the room.
                    But Lady Barnes stopped him, not without dignity. “Better not press it,
                        Roger: another time.”
                    Barnes laughed, and yielded. He carried the child away, murmuring to her,
                        “Naughty, naughty 'ittie girl!”—a remark which Beatty, tucked under his ear,
                        and complacently sucking her thumb, received with complete indifference.
                    “There, you see!” said the grandmother, with slightly flushed cheeks, as the
                        door closed: “the child has been already taught to dislike me, and if Roger had attempted to kiss me, she
                        would probably have struck me.”
                    “Oh, no!” cried Mrs. French. “She is a loving little thing.”
                    “Except when she is jealous,” said Lady Barnes, with significance. “I told
                        you she has inherited more than her eyes.”
                    Mrs. French rose. She was determined not to discuss her hostess any more, and
                        she walked over to the bow window as though to look at the prospects of the
                        weather, which had threatened rain. But Roger's mother was not to be
                        repressed. Resentment and antagonism, nurtured on a hundred small incidents
                        and trifling jars, and, to begin with, a matter of temperament, had come at
                        last to speech. And in this charming New Englander, the wife of Roger's best
                        friend, sympathetic, tender, with a touch in her of the nun and the saint,
                        Lady Barnes could not help trying to find a supporter. She was a much weaker
                        person than her square build and her double chin would have led the
                        bystander to suppose; and her feelings had been hurt.
                    So that when Mrs. French returned to say that the sun seemed to be coming
                        out, her companion, without heeding, went on, with emotion: “It's my son I
                        am thinking of, Mrs. French. I know you're safe, and that Roger depends upon
                        Mr. French more than upon anyone else in the world, so I can't help just saying a word to you about my anxiety. You
                        know, when Roger married, I don't think he was much in love—in fact, I'm
                        sure he wasn't. But now—it's quite different. Roger has a very soft heart,
                        and he's very domestic. He was always the best of sons to me, and as soon as
                        he was married he became the best of husbands. He's devoted to Daphne now,
                        and you see how he adores the child. But the fact is, there's a person in
                        this neighbourhood” (Lady Barnes lowered her voice and looked round her)—“I
                        only knew it for certain this morning-who ... well, who might make trouble.
                        And Daphne's temper is so passionate and uncontrolled that—”
                    “Dear Lady Barnes, please don't tell me any secrets!” Elsie French implored,
                        and laid a restraining hand on the mother's arm, ready, indeed, to take up
                        her work and fly. But Lady Barnes's chair stood between her and the door,
                        and the occupant of it was substantial.
                    Laura Barnes hesitated, and in the pause two persons appeared upon the garden
                        path outside, coming towards the open windows of the drawing-room. One was
                        Mrs. Roger Barnes; the other was a man, remarkably tall and slender, with a
                        stoop like that of an overgrown schoolboy, silky dark hair and moustache,
                        and pale grey eyes.
                    
                    “Dr. Lelius!” said Elsie, in astonishment. “Was Daphne expecting him?”
                    “Who is Dr. Lelius?” asked Lady Barnes, putting up her eyeglass.
                    Mrs. French explained that he was a South German art-critic, from Würzburg,
                        with a great reputation. She had already met him at Eton and at Oxford.
                    “Another expert!” said Lady Barnes with a shrug.
                    The pair passed the window, absorbed apparently in conversation. Mrs. French
                        escaped. Lady Barnes was left to discontent and solitude.
                    But the solitude was not for long.
                    When Elsie French descended for tea, an hour later, she was aware, from a
                        considerable distance, of people and tumult in the drawing-room. Daphne's
                        soprano voice—agreeable, but making its mark always, like its owner—could be
                        heard running on. The young mistress of the house seemed to be admonishing,
                        instructing someone. Could it be her mother-in-law?
                    When Elsie entered, Daphne was walking up and down in excitement.
                    “One cannot really live with bad pictures because they happen to be one's
                        ancestors! We won't do them any harm, mamma! of course not. There is a room
                        upstairs where they can be stored—most carefully—and anybody who is interested in them can go and look at
                        them. If they had only been left as they were painted!—not by Lely, of
                        course, but by some drapery man in his studio—passe
                            encore! they might have been just bearable. But you see some
                        wretched restorer went and daubed them all over a few years ago.”
                    “We went to the best man we could find! We took the best advice!” cried Lady
                        Barnes, sitting stiff and crimson in a deep arm-chair, opposite the luckless
                        row of portraits that Daphne was denouncing.
                    “I'm sure you did. But then, you see, nobody knew anything at all about it in
                        those days. The restorers were all murderers. Ask Dr. Lelius.”
                    Daphne pointed to the stranger, who was leaning against an arm-chair beside
                        her in an embarrassed attitude, as though he were endeavouring to make the
                        chair a buffer between himself and Lady Barnes.
                    Dr. Lelius bowed.
                    “It is a modern art,” he said with diffidence, and an accent creditably
                        slight—“a quite modern art. We hafe a great man at Würzburg.”
                    “I don't suppose he professes to know anything about English pictures, does
                        he?” asked Lady Barnes with scorn.
                    “Ach!—I do not propose that Mrs. Barnes
                        entrust him wid dese pictures, Madame. It is now too late.”
                    And the willowy German looked, with a half-repressed smile, at the row of
                        pictures—all staring at the bystander with the same saucer eyes, the same
                        wooden arms, and the same brilliance of modern paint and varnish, which not
                        even the passage of four years since it was applied had been able greatly to
                        subdue.
                    Lady Barnes lifted shoulders and eyes—a woman's angry protest against the
                        tyranny of knowledge.
                    “All the same, they are my forbears, my kith and kin,” she said, with
                        emphasis. “But of course Mrs. Barnes is mistress here: I suppose she will do
                        as she pleases.”
                    The German stared politely at the carpet. It was now Daphne's turn to shrug.
                        She threw herself into a chair, with very red cheeks, one foot hanging over
                        the other, and the fingers of her hands, which shone with diamonds, tapping
                        the chair impatiently. Her dress of a delicate pink, touched here and there
                        with black, her wide black hat, and the eyes which glowed from the small
                        pointed face beneath it; the tumbling masses of her dark hair as contrasted
                        with her general lightness and slenderness; the red of the lips, the
                        whiteness of the hands and brow, the dainty irregularity of feature: these
                        things made a Watteau sketch of her, all pure colour and lissomeness, with dots and scratches
                        of intense black. Daphne was much handsomer than she had been as a girl, but
                        also a trifle less refined. All her points were intensified—her eyes had
                        more flame; the damask of her cheek was deeper; her grace was wilder, her
                        voice a little shriller than of old.
                    While the uncomfortable silence which the two women had made around them
                        still lasted, Roger Barnes appeared on the garden steps.
                    “Hullo! any tea going?” He came in, without waiting for an answer, looked
                        from his mother to Daphne, from Daphne to his mother, and laughed
                        uncomfortably.
                    “Still bothering about those beastly pictures?” he said as he helped himself
                        to a cup of tea.
                    “Thank you, Roger!” said Lady Barnes.
                    “I didn't mean any harm, mother.” He crossed over to her and sat down beside
                        her. “I say, Daphne, I've got an idea. Why shouldn't mother have them? She's
                        going to take a house, she says. Let's hand them all over to her!”
                    Lady Barnes's lips trembled with indignation. “The Trescoes who were born and
                        died in this house, belong here!” The tone of the words showed the stab to
                        feeling and self-love. “It would be a sacrilege to move them.”
                    “Well then, let's move ourselves!” 
                            ex-
                            exclaimed
                         claimed Daphne, springing up.
                        “We can let this house again, can't we, Roger?”
                    “We can, I suppose,” said Roger, munching his bread and butter; “but we're
                        not going to.”
                    He raised his head and looked quietly at her.
                    “I think we'd better!” The tone was imperious. Daphne, with her thin arms and
                        hands locked behind her, paused beside her husband.
                    Dr. Lelius, stealthily raising his eyes, observed the two. A strange little
                        scene—not English at all. The English, he understood, were a phlegmatic
                        people. What had this little Southerner to do among them? And what sort of
                        fellow was the husband?
                    It was evident that some mute colloquy passed between the husband and
                        wife—disapproval on his part, attempt to assert authority, defiance on hers.
                        Then the fair-skinned English face, confronting Daphne, wavered and
                        weakened, and Roger smiled into the eyes transfixing him.
                    “Ah!” thought Lelius, “she has him, de poor fool!”
                    Roger, coming over to his mother, began a murmured conversation. Daphne,
                        still breathing quick, consented to talk to Dr. Lelius and Mrs. French.
                        Lelius, who travelled widely, had brought
                        her news of some pictures in a château of the Bourbonnais—pictures that her
                        whole mind was set on acquiring. Elsie French noticed the
                            expertise of her talk; the intellectual development it
                        implied; the passion of will which accompanied it. “To the dollar, all
                        things are possible,”—one might have phrased it so.
                    The soft September air came in through the open windows, from a garden
                        flooded with western sun. Suddenly through the subdued talk which filled the
                        drawing-room—each group in it avoiding the other—the sound of a motor
                        arriving made itself heard.
                    “Heavens! who on earth knows we're here?” said Barnes, looking up.
                    For they had only been camping a week in the house, far too busy to think of
                        neighbours. They sat expectant and annoyed, reproaching each other with not
                        having told the butler to say “Not at home.” Lady Barnes's attitude had in
                        it something else—a little anxiety; but it escaped notice. Steps came
                        through the hall, and the butler, throwing open the door, announced—
                    “Mrs. Fairmile.”
                    Roger Barnes sprang to his feet. His mother, with a little gasp, caught him
                        by the arm instinctively. There was a general rise and a movement of
                        confusion, till the new-comer, advancing, offered her hand to Daphne.
                    
                    “I am afraid, Mrs. Barnes, I am disturbing you all. The butler told me you
                        had only been here a few days. But Lady Barnes and your husband are such old
                        friends of mine that, as soon as I heard—through our old postmistress, I
                        think—that you had arrived, I thought I might venture.”
                    The charming voice dropped, and the speaker waited, smiling, her eyes fixed
                        on Daphne. Daphne had taken her hand in some bewilderment, and was now
                        looking at her husband for assistance. It was clear to Elsie French, in the
                        background, that Daphne neither knew the lady nor the lady's name, and that
                        the visit had taken her entirely by surprise.
                    Barnes recovered himself quickly. “I had no idea you were in these parts,” he
                        said, as he brought a chair forward for the visitor, and stood beside her a
                        moment.
                    Lady Barnes, observing him, as she stiffly greeted the new-comer—his cool
                        manner, his deepened colour—felt the usual throb of maternal pride in him,
                        intensified by alarm and excitement.
                    “Oh, I am staying a day or two with Duchess Mary,” said the new-comer. “She
                        is a little older—and no less gouty, poor dear, than she used to be. Mrs.
                        Barnes, I have heard a great deal of you—though you mayn't know anything
                        about me, Ah! Dr. Lelius?”
                    
                    The German, bowing awkwardly, yet radiant, came forward to take the hand
                        extended to him.
                    “They did nothing but talk about you at the Louvre, when I was there last
                        week,” she said, with a little confidential nod. “You have made them
                        horribly uncomfortable about some of their things. Isn't it a pity to know
                        too much?”
                    She turned towards Daphne. “I'm afraid that's your case too.” She smiled, and
                        the smile lit up a face full of delicate lines and wrinkles, which no effort
                        had been made to disguise; a tired face, where the eyes spoke from caverns
                        of shade, yet with the most appealing and persuasive beauty.
                    “Do you mean about pictures?” said Daphne, a little coldly. “I don't know as
                        much as Dr. Lelius.”
                    Humour leapt into the eyes fixed upon her; but Mrs. Fairmile only said:
                        “That's not given to the rest of us mortals. But after all,
                            having's better than knowing. Don't—don't you
                        possess the Vitali Signorelli?”
                    Her voice was most musical and flattering. Daphne smiled in spite of herself.
                        “Yes, we do. It's in London now—waiting till we can find a place for
                        it.”
                    “You must let me make a pilgrimage—when it comes. But you know you'd find
                            a number of things at Upcott—where I'm
                        staying now—that would interest you. I forget whether you've met the
                        Duchess?”
                    “This is our first week here,” said Roger, interposing. “The house has been
                        let till now. We came down to see what could be made of it.”
                    His tone was only just civil. His mother, looking on, said to herself that he
                        was angry—and with good reason.
                    But Mrs. Fairmile still smiled.
                    “Ah! the Lelys!” she cried, raising her hand slightly towards the row of
                        portraits on the wall. “The dear impossible things! Are you still discussing
                        them—as we used to do?”
                    Daphne started. “You know this house, then?”
                    The smile broadened into a laugh of amusement, as Mrs. Fairmile turned to
                        Roger's mother.
                    “Don't I, dear Lady Barnes—don't I know this house?”
                    Lady Barnes seemed to straighten in her chair. “Well, you were here often
                        enough to know it,” she said abruptly. “Daphne, Mrs. Fairmile is a distant
                        cousin of ours.”
                    “Distant, but quite enough to swear by!” said the visitor, gaily. “Yes, Mrs.
                        Barnes, I knew this house very well in old days. It has many charming
                        points.” She looked round with a face that
                        had suddenly become coolly critical, an embodied intelligence.
                    Daphne, as though divining for the first time a listener worthy of her steel,
                        began to talk with some rapidity of the changes she wished to make. She
                        talked with an evident desire to show off, to make an impression. Mrs.
                        Fairmile listened attentively, occasionally throwing in a word of criticism
                        or comment, in the softest, gentlest voice. But somehow, whenever she spoke,
                        Daphne felt vaguely irritated. She was generally put slightly in the wrong
                        by her visitor, and Mrs. Fairmile's extraordinary knowledge of Heston Park,
                        and of everything connected with it, was so odd and disconcerting. She had a
                        laughing way, moreover, of appealing to Roger Barnes himself to support a
                        recollection or an opinion, which presently produced a contraction of
                        Daphne's brows. Who was this woman? A cousin—a cousin who knew every inch of
                        the house, and seemed to be one of Roger's closest friends? It was really
                        too strange that in all these years Roger should never have said a word
                        about her!
                    The red mounted in Daphne's cheek. She began, moreover, to feel herself at a
                        disadvantage to which she was not accustomed. Dr. Lelius, meanwhile, turned
                        to Mrs. Fairmile, whenever she was allowed to speak, with a joyous yet
                        inarticulate deference he had never shown to his hostess. They understood each other at a word or
                        a glance. Beside them Daphne, with all her cleverness, soon appeared as a
                        child for whom one makes allowances.
                    A vague anger swelled in her throat. She noticed, too, Roger's silence and
                        Lady Barnes's discomfort. There was clearly something here that had been
                        kept from her—something to be unravelled!
                    Suddenly the new-comer rose. Mrs. Fairmile wore a dress of some pale grey
                        stuff, cobweb-light and transparent, over a green satin. It had the effect
                        of sea-water, and her grey hat, with its pale green wreath, framed the
                        golden-grey of her hair. Every one of her few adornments was exquisite—so
                        was her grace as she moved. Daphne's pink-and-black vivacity beside her
                        seemed a pinchbeck thing.
                    “Well, now, when will you all come to Upcott?” Mrs. Fairmile said graciously,
                        as she shook hands. “The Duchess will be enchanted to see you any day,
                        and—”
                    “Thank you! but we really can't come so far,” said a determined voice. “We
                        have only a shaky old motor—our new one isn't ready yet—and besides, we want
                        all our time for the house.”
                    “You make him work so hard? ”
                    Mrs. Fairmile, laughing, pointed to the speaker. Roger looked up
                        involuntarily, and Daphne saw the look.
                    
                    “Roger has nothing to do,” she said, quickly. “Thank you very much: we will
                        certainly come. I'll write to you. How many miles did you say it was?”
                    “Oh, nothing for a motor!—twenty-five. We used to think it nothing for a
                        ride, didn't we?”
                    The speaker, who was just passing through the door, turned towards Roger,
                        who, with Lelius, was escorting her, with a last gesture—gay, yet, like all
                        her gestures, charged with a slight yet deliberate significance.
                    They disappeared. Daphne walked to the window, biting her lip.
                    As she stood there Herbert French came into the room, looking a little shy
                        and ill at ease, and behind him three persons, a clergyman in an
                        Archdeacon's apron and gaiters, and two ladies. Daphne, perceiving them
                        sideways in a mirror to her right, could not repress a gesture and muttered
                        sound of annoyance.
                    French introduced Archdeacon Mountford, his wife and sister. Roger, it
                        seemed, had met them in the hall, and sent them in. He himself had been
                        carried off on some business by the head keeper.
                    Daphne turned ungraciously. Her colour was very bright, her eyes a little
                        absent and wild. The two ladies, both clad
                        in pale brown stuffs, large mushroom hats, and stout country boots, eyed her
                        nervously, and as they sat down, at her bidding, they left the
                        Archdeacon—who was the vicar of the neighbouring town—to explain, with much
                        amiable stammering, that seeing the Duchess's motor at the front door, as
                        they were crossing the park, they presumed that visitors were admitted, and
                        had ventured to call.
                    Daphne received the explanation without any cordiality. She did indeed bid
                        the callers sit down, and ordered some fresh tea. But she took no pains to
                        entertain them, and if Lady Barnes and Herbert French had not come to the
                        rescue, they would have fared but ill. The Archdeacon, in fact, did come to
                        grief. For him Mrs. Barnes was just a “foreigner,” imported from some
                        unknown and, of course, inferior milieu,
                        one who had never been “a happy English child,” and must therefore be
                        treated with indulgence. He endeavoured to talk to her—kindly—about her
                        country. A branch of his own family, he informed her, had settled about a
                        hundred years before this date in the United States. He gave her, at some
                        length, the genealogy of the branch, then of the main stock to which he
                        himself belonged, presuming that she was, at any rate, acquainted with the
                        name? It was, he said, his strong opinion
                        that American women were very “bright.” For himself he could not say that he
                        even disliked the accent, it was so “quaint.” Did Mrs. Barnes know many of
                        the American bishops? He himself had met a large number of them at a
                        reception at the Church House, but it had really made him quite
                        uncomfortable! They wore no official dress, and there was he—a mere
                        Archdeacon!—in gaiters. And, of course, no one thought of calling them “my
                        lord.” It certainly was very curious—to an Englishman. And Methodist
                        bishops!—such as he was told America possessed in plenty—that was still more
                        curious. One of the Episcopalian bishops, however, had preached—in
                        Westminster Abbey—a remarkable sermon, on a very sad subject, not perhaps a
                        subject to be discussed in a drawing-room—but still—
                    Suddenly the group on the other side of the room became aware that the
                        Archdeacon's amiable prosing had been sharply interrupted—that Daphne, not
                        he, was holding the field. A gust of talk arose—Daphne declaiming, the
                        Archdeacon, after a first pause of astonishment, changing aspect and tone.
                        French, looking across the room, saw the mask of conventional amiability
                        stripped from what was really a strong and rather tyrannical face. The man's
                        prominent mouth and long upper lip emerged. He drew his chair back from
                        Daphne's; he tried once or twice to stop
                        or argue with her, and finally he rose abruptly.
                    “My dear!”—his wife turned hastily—“We must not detain Mrs. Barnes
                        longer!”
                    The two ladies looked at the Archdeacon—the god of their idolatry; then at
                        Daphne. Hurriedly, like birds frightened by a shot, they crossed the room
                        and just touched their hostess's hand; the Archdeacon, making up for their
                        precipitancy by a double dose of dignity, bowed himself out; the door closed
                        behind them.
                    “Daphne!—my dear! what is the matter?” cried Lady Barnes, in dismay.
                    “He spoke to me impertinently about my country!” said Daphne, turning upon
                        her, her black eyes blazing, her cheeks white with excitement.
                    “The Archdeacon!—he is always so polite.”
                    “He talked like a fool—about things he doesn't understand!” was Daphne's curt
                        reply, as she gathered up her hat and some letters, and moved towards the
                        door.
                    “About what? My dear Daphne! He could not possibly have meant to offend you!
                        Could he, Mr. French?” Lady Barnes turned plaintively towards her very
                        uncomfortable companions.
                    Daphne confronted her.
                    “If he chooses to think America immoral and
                        degraded because American divorce laws are different from the English laws,
                        let him think it!—but he has no business to air his views to an American—at
                        a first visit, too!” said Daphne passionately, and, drawing herself up, she
                        swept out of the room, leaving the others dumbfoundered.
                    “Oh dear! oh dear!” wailed Lady Barnes. “And the Archdeacon is so important!
                        Daphne might have been rude to anybody else—but not to the Archdeacon!”
                    “How did they manage to get into such a subject—so quickly?” asked Elsie in
                        bewilderment.
                    “I suppose he took it for granted that Daphne agreed with him! All decent
                        people do.”
                    Lady Barnes's wrath was evident—so was her indiscretion. Elsie French applied
                        herself to soothing her, while Herbert French disappeared into the garden
                        with a book. His wife, however, presently observed from the drawing-room
                        that he was not reading. He was pacing the lawn, with his hands behind him,
                        and his eyes on the grass. The slight, slowly-moving figure stood for
                        meditation, and Elsie French knew enough to understand that the incidents of
                        the afternoon might well supply any friend of Roger Barnes's with food for
                        meditation. Herbert had not been in the
                        drawing-room when Mrs. Fairmile was calling, but no doubt he had met her in
                        the hall when she was on her way to her carriage.
                    Meanwhile Daphne, in her own room, was also employed in meditation. She had
                        thrown herself, frowning, into a chair beside a window which overlooked the
                        park. The landscape had a gentle charm—spreading grass, low hills, and
                        scattered woods—under a warm September sun. But it had no particular accent,
                        and Daphne thought it both tame and depressing; like an English society made
                        up of Archdeacon Mountfords and their womenkind! What a futile, irritating
                        man!—and what dull creatures were the wife and sister!—mere echoes of their
                        lord and master. She had behaved badly, of course; in a few days she
                        supposed the report of her outburst would be all over the place. She did not
                        care. Even for Roger's sake she was not going to cringe to these poor
                        provincial standards.
                    And all the time she knew very well that it was not the Archdeacon and his
                        fatuities that were really at fault. The afternoon had been decided not by
                        the Mountfords' call, but by that which had preceded it.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VI
                    MRS. BARNES, however, made no immediate reference to the
                        matter which was in truth filling her mind. She avoided her husband and
                        mother-in-law, both of whom were clearly anxious to capture her attention;
                        and, by way of protecting herself from them, she spent the late afternoon in
                        looking through Italian photographs with Dr. Lelius.
                    But about seven o'clock Roger found her lying on her sofa, her hands clasped
                        behind her head—frowning—the lips working.
                    He came in rather consciously, glancing at his wife in hesitation.
                    “Are you tired, Daphne?”
                    “No.”
                    “A penny for your thoughts, then!” He stooped over her and looked into her
                        eyes.
                    Daphne made no reply. She continued to look straight before her.
                    “What's the matter with you?” he said, at last.
                    “I'm wondering,” said Daphne slowly, “how many more cousins and great friends
                        you have, that I know nothing about. I think another time it would be civil—just that!—to give me a
                        word of warning.”
                    Roger pulled at his moustache. “I hadn't an idea she was within a thousand
                        miles of this place! But, if I had, I couldn't have imagined she would have
                        the face to come here!”
                    “Who is she?” With a sudden movement Daphne turned her eyes upon him.
                    “Well, there's no good making any bones about it,” said the man, flushing.
                        “She's a girl I was once engaged to—for a very short time,” he added
                        hastily. “It was the week before my father died, and our smash came. As soon
                        as it came she threw me over.”
                    Daphne's intense gaze, under the slightly frowning brows, disquieted him.
                    “How long were you engaged to her?”
                    “Three weeks.”
                    “Had she been staying here before that?”
                    “Yes—she often stayed here. Daphne! don't look like that! She treated me
                        abominably; and before I married you I had come not to care twopence about
                        her.”
                    “You did care about her when you proposed to me?”
                    “No!—not at all! Of course, when I went out to New York I was sore, because
                        she had thrown me over.”
                    “And I”—Daphne made a scornful lip—“was the feather-bed to catch you as you
                            fell. It never occurred to you that it
                        might have been honourable to tell me?”
                    “Well, I don't know—I never asked you to tell me of your affairs!”
                    Roger, his hands in his pockets, looked round at her with an awkward
                        laugh.
                    “I told you everything!” was the quick reply—“everything.”
                    Roger uncomfortably remembered that so indeed it had been; and moreover that
                        he had been a good deal bored at the time by Daphne's confessions.
                    He had not been enough in love with her—then—to find them of any great
                        account. And certainly it had never occurred to him to pay them back in
                        kind. What did it matter to her or to anyone that Chloe Morant had made a
                        fool of him? His recollection of the fooling, at the time he proposed to
                        Daphne, was still so poignant that it would have been impossible to speak of
                        it. And within a few months afterwards he had practically forgotten it—and
                        Chloe too. Of course he could not see her again, for the first time, without
                        being “a bit upset”; mostly, indeed, by the boldness—the brazenness—of her
                        behaviour. But his emotions were of no tragic strength, and, as Lady Barnes
                        had complained to Mrs. French, he was now honestly in love with Daphne and
                        his child.
                    So that he had nothing but impatience and
                        annoyance for the recollection of the visit of the afternoon; and Daphne's
                        attitude distressed him. Why, she was as pale as a ghost! His thoughts sent
                        Chloe Fairmile to the deuce.
                    “Look here, dear!” he said, kneeling down suddenly beside his wife—“don't you
                        get any nonsense into your head. I'm not the kind of fellow who goes
                        philandering after a woman when she's jilted him. I took her measure, and
                        after you accepted me I never gave her another thought. I forgot her,
                        dear—bag and baggage! Kiss me, Daphne!”
                    But Daphne still held him at bay.
                    “How long were you engaged to her?” she repeated.
                    “I've told you—three weeks!” said the man, reluctantly.
                    “How long had you known her?”
                    “A year or two. She was a distant cousin of father's. Her father was Governor
                        of Madras, and her mother was dead. She couldn't stand India for long
                        together, and she used to stay about with relations. Why she took a fancy to
                        me I can't imagine. She's so booky and artistic, and that kind of thing,
                        that I never understood half the time what she was talking about. Now you're
                        just as clever, you know, darling, but I do understand you.”
                    Roger's conscience made a few dim remonstrances. It asked him whether in
                        fact, standing on his own qualifications
                        and advantages of quite a different kind, he had not always felt himself
                        triumphantly more than a match for Chloe and her cleverness. But he paid no
                        heed to them. He was engaged in stroking Daphne's fingers and studying the
                        small set face.
                    “Whom did she marry?” asked Daphne, putting an end to the stroking.
                    “A fellow in the army—Major Fairmile—a smart, popular sort of chap. He was
                        her father's aide-de-camp when they married—just after we did—and they've
                        been in India, or Egypt, ever since. They don't get on, and I suppose she
                        comes and quarters herself on the old Duchess—as she used to on us.”
                    “You seem to know all about her! Yes, I remember now, I've heard people speak
                        of her to you. Mrs. Fairmile—Mrs. Fairmile—yes, I remember,” said Daphne, in
                        a brooding voice, her cheeks becoming suddenly very red. “Your uncle—in
                        town—mentioned her. I didn't take any notice.”
                    “Why should you? She doesn't matter a fig, either to you or to me!”
                    “It matters to me very much that these people who spoke of her—your uncle and
                        the others—knew what I didn't know!” cried Daphne, passionately. She stared
                        at Roger, strangely conscious that something epoch-making and decisive had
                        happened. Roger had had a secret from her
                        all these years—that was what had happened; and now she had discovered it.
                        That he could have a secret from her, however, was the real
                        discovery. She felt a fierce resentment, and yet a kind of added respect for
                        him. All the time he had been the private owner of thoughts and
                        recollections that she had no part in, and the fact roused in her tumult and
                        bitterness. Nevertheless the disturbance which it produced in her sense of
                        property, the shock and anguish of it, brought back something of the passion
                        of love she had felt in the first year of their marriage.
                    During these three years she had more than once shown herself insanely
                        jealous for the merest trifles. But Roger had always laughed at her, and she
                        had ended by laughing at herself.
                    Yet all the time he had had this secret. She sat looking at him hard with her
                        astonishing eyes; and he grew more and more uneasy.
                    “Well, some of them knew,” he said, answering her last reproach. “And they
                        knew that I was jolly well quit of her! I suppose I ought to have told you,
                        Daphne—of course I ought—I'm sorry. But the fact was I never wanted to think
                        of her again. And I certainly never want to see her again! Why, in the name
                        of goodness, did you accept that tea-fight?”
                    “Because I mean to go.”
                    
                    “Then you'll have to go without me,” was the incautious reply.
                    “Oh, so you're afraid of meeting her! I shall know what to think, if you
                            don't go.” Daphne sat erect, her hands clasped round her
                        knees.
                    Roger made a sound of wrath, and threw his cigarette into the fire. Then,
                        turning round again to face her, he tried to control himself.
                    “Look here, Daphne, don't let us quarrel about this. I'll tell you everything
                        you want to know—the whole beastly story. But it can't be pleasant to me to
                        meet a woman who treated me as she did—and it oughtn't to be pleasant to you
                        either. It was like her audacity to come this afternoon.”
                    “She simply wants to get hold of you again!” Daphne sprang up as she spoke
                        with a violent movement, her face blazing.
                    “Nonsense! she came out of nothing in the world but curiosity, and because
                        she likes making people uncomfortable. She knew very well mother and I
                        didn't want her!”
                    But the more he tried to persuade her the more determined was Daphne to pay
                        the promised visit, and that he should pay it with her. He gave way at last,
                        and she allowed herself to be soothed and caressed. Then, when she seemed to
                        have recovered herself, he gave her a tragi-comic account of the three weeks' engagement, and the manner in
                        which it had been broken off: caustic enough, one might have thought, to
                        satisfy the most unfriendly listener. Daphne heard it all quietly.
                    Then her maid came, and she donned a tea-gown.
                    When Roger returned, after dressing, he found her still abstracted.
                    “I suppose you kissed her?” she said abruptly, as they stood by the fire
                        together.
                    He broke out in laughter and annoyance, and called her a little goose, with
                        his arm round her.
                    But she persisted. “You did kiss her?”
                    “Well, of course I did! What else is one engaged for?”
                    “I'm certain she wished for a great deal of kissing!” said Daphne,
                        quickly.
                    Roger was silent. Suddenly there swept through him the memory of the scene in
                        the orchard, and with it an admission—wrung, as it were, from a wholly
                        unwilling self—that it had remained for him a scene unique and unapproached.
                        In that one hour the “muddy vesture” of common feeling and desire that
                        closed in his manhood had taken fire and burnt to a pure flame, fusing, so
                        it seemed, body and soul. He had not thought of it for years, but now that
                        he was made to think of it, the old thrill returned—a memory of something
                            heavenly, ecstatic, far transcending
                        the common hours and the common earth.
                    The next moment he had thrown the recollection angrily from him. Stooping to
                        his wife, he kissed her warmly. “Look here, Daphne! I wish you'd let that
                        woman alone! Have I ever looked at anyone but you, old girl, since that day
                        at Mount Vernon?”
                    Daphne let him hold her close; but all the time, thoughts—ugly thoughts—like
                        “little mice stole in and out.” The notion of Roger and that woman, in the
                        past, engaged—always together, in each other's arms, tormented her
                        unendurably.
                    She did not, however, say a word to Lady Barnes on the subject. The morning
                        following Mrs. Fairmile's visit that lady began a rather awkward explanation
                        of Chloe Fairmile's place in the family history, and of the reasons for
                        Roger's silence and her own. Daphne took it apparently with complete
                        indifference, and managed to cut it short in the middle.
                    Nevertheless she brooded over the whole business; and her resentment showed
                        itself, first of all, in a more and more drastic treatment of Heston, its
                        pictures, decorations and appointments. Lady Barnes dared not oppose her any
                        more. She understood that if she were thwarted, or even criticised, Daphne
                        would simply decline to live there, and
                        her own link with the place would be once more broken. So she withdrew
                        angrily from the scene, and tried not to know what was going on. Meanwhile a
                        note of invitation had been addressed to Daphne by the Duchess, and had been
                        accepted; Roger had been reminded, at the point of the bayonet, that go he
                        must; and Dr. Lelius had transferred himself from Heston to Upcott, and the
                        companionship of Mrs. Fairmile.
                    It was the last day of the Frenches' visit. Roger and Herbert French had been
                        trying to get a brace or two of partridges on the long-neglected and
                        much-poached estate; and on the way home French expressed a hope that, now
                        they were to settle at Heston, Roger would take up some of the usual duties
                        of the country gentleman. He spoke in the half-jesting way characteristic of
                        the modern Mentor. The old didactics have long gone out of fashion, and the
                        moralist of to-day, instead of preaching, ore
                            retundo, must only “hint a fault and hesitate dislike.” But,
                        hide it as he might, there was an ethical and religious passion in French
                        that would out, and was soon indeed to drive him from Eton to a town parish.
                        He had been ordained some two years before this date.
                    It was this inborn pastoral gift, just as real as the literary or artistic
                        gifts, and containing the same
                        potentialities of genius as they, which was leading him to feel a deep
                        anxiety about the Barnes's ménage. It
                        seemed to him necessary that Daphne should respect her husband; and Roger,
                        in a state of complete idleness, was not altogether respect-able.
                    So, with much quizzing of him as “the Squire,” French tried to goad his
                        companion into some of a Squire's duties. “Stand for the County Council, old
                        fellow,” he said. “Your father was on it, and it'll give you something to
                        do.”
                    To his surprise Roger at once acquiesced. He was striding along in cap and
                        knickerbockers, his curly hair still thick and golden on his temples, his
                        clear skin flushed with exercise, his general physical aspect even more
                        splendid than it had been in his first youth. Beside him, the slender figure
                        and pleasant irregular face of Herbert French would have been altogether
                        effaced and eclipsed but for the Eton master's two striking points:
                        prematurely white hair, remarkably thick and abundant; and very blue eyes,
                        shy, spiritual and charming.
                    “I don't mind,” Roger was saying, “if you think they'd have me. Beastly bore,
                        of course! But one's got to do something for one's keep.”
                    He looked round with a smile, slightly conscious. The position he had
                        occupied for some three years, of the idle
                        and penniless husband dependent on his wife's dollars, was not, he knew, an
                        exalted one in French's eyes.
                    “Oh! you'll find it quite tolerable,” said French. “Roads and schools do as
                        well as anything else to break one's teeth on. We shall see you a magistrate
                        directly.”
                    Roger laughed. “That would be a good one!—I say, you know, I hope Daphne's
                        going to like Heston.”
                    French hoped so too, guardedly.
                    “I hear the Archdeacon got on her nerves yesterday?”
                    He looked at his companion with a slight laugh and a shrug.
                    “That doesn't matter.”
                    “I don't know. He's rather a spiteful old party. And Daphne's accustomed to
                        be made a lot of, you know. In London there's always a heap of people making
                        up to her—and in Paris, too. She talks uncommon good French—learnt it in the
                        convent. I don't understand a word of what they talk about—but she's a
                        queen—I can tell you! She doesn't want Archdeacons prating at her.”
                    “It'll be all right when she knows the people.”
                    “Of course, mother and I get along here all right. We've got to pick up the
                        threads again; but we do know all the people, and we like the old place for grandfather's sake, and
                        all the rest of it. But there isn't much to amuse Daphne here.”
                    “She'll be doing up the house.”
                    “And offending mother all the time. I say, French, don't you think art's an
                        awful nuisance! When I hear Lelius yarning on about quattro-cento and cinque-cento, I could drown myself. No! I suppose you're
                        tarred with the same brush.” Roger shrugged his shoulders. “Well, I don't
                        care, so long as Daphne gets what she wants, and the place suits the child.”
                        His ruddy countenance took a shade of anxiety.
                    French inquired what reason there was to suppose that Beatty would not thrive
                        perfectly at Heston. Roger could only say that the child had seemed to flag
                        a little since their arrival. Appetite not quite so good, temper difficult,
                        and so on. Their smart lady-nurse was not quite satisfied. “And I've been
                        finding out about doctors here,” the young father went on, knitting his
                        brows: “blokes, most of them, and such old blokes! I wouldn't trust Beatty
                        to one of them. But I've heard of a new man at Hereford—awfully good, they
                        say—a wunner! And after all a motor would soon run him out!”
                    He went on talking eagerly about the child, her beauty, her cleverness, the
                        plans Daphne had for her bringing up, and so on. No other child ever had been, ever could be, so fetching,
                        so “cunning,” so lovely, such a duck! The Frenches, indeed, possessed a boy
                        of two, reputed handsome. Roger wished to show himself indulgent to anything
                        that might be pleaded for him. “Dear little fellow!”—of course. But Beatty!
                        Well! it was surprising, indeed, that he should find himself the father of
                        such a little miracle; he didn't know what he'd done to deserve it. Herbert
                        French smiled as he walked.
                    “Of course, I hope there'll be a boy,” said Roger, stopping suddenly to look
                        at Heston Park, half a mile off, emerging from the trees. “Daphne would like
                        a boy—so should I, and particularly now that we've got the old house back
                        again.”
                    He stood and surveyed it. French noticed in the growing manliness of his face
                        and bearing the signs of things and forces ancestral, of those ghostly hands
                        stretching from the past that in a long settled society tend to push a man
                        into his right place and keep him there. The Barnes family was tolerable,
                        though not distinguished. Roger's father's great temporary success in
                        politics and business had given it a passing splendour, now quenched in the
                        tides of failure and disaster which had finally overwhelmed his career.
                        Roger evidently did not want to think much about his Barnes heritage. But it
                            was clear also that he was proud of
                        the Trescoes; that he had fallen back upon them, so to speak. Since the
                        fifteenth century there had always been a Trescoe at Heston; and Roger had
                        already taken to browsing in county histories and sorting family letters.
                        French foresaw a double-barrelled surname before long—perhaps, just in time
                        for the advent of the future son and heir who was already a personage in the
                        mind, if not yet positively expected.
                    “My dear fellow, I hope Mrs. Barnes will give you not one son, but many!” he
                        said, in answer to his companion's outburst. “They're wanted nowadays.”
                    Roger nodded and smiled, and then passed on to the discussion of county
                        business and county people. He had already, it seemed, informed himself to a
                        rather surprising degree. The shrewd, upright county gentleman was beginning
                        to emerge, oddly, from the Apollo. The merits and absurdities of the type
                        were already there, indeed, in posse. How
                        persistent was the type, and the instinct! A man of Roger's antecedents
                        might seem to swerve from the course; but the smallest favourable variation
                        of circumstances, and there he was again on the track, trotting happily
                        between the shafts.
                    “If only the wife plays up!” thought French.
                    
                    The recollection of Daphne, indeed, emerged simultaneously in both minds.
                    “Daphne, you know, won't be able to stand this all the year round,” said
                        Roger. “By George, no! not with a waggon-load of Leliuses!” Then, with a
                        sudden veer and a flush: “I say, French, do you know what sort of state the
                        Fairmile marriage is in by now? I think that lady might have spared her
                        call—don't you?”
                    French kept his eyes on the path. It was the first time, as far as he was
                        concerned, that Roger had referred to the incident. Yet the tone of the
                        questioner implied a past history. It was to him, indeed, that Roger had
                        come, in the first bitterness of his young grief and anger, after the
                        “jilting.” French had tried to help him, only to find that he was no more a
                        match for the lady than the rest of the world.
                    As to the call and the invitation, he agreed heartily that a person of
                        delicacy would have omitted them. The Fairmile marriage, it was generally
                        rumoured, had broken down hopelessly.
                    “Faults on both sides, of course. Fairmile is and always was an unscrupulous
                        beggar! He left Eton just as you came, but I remember him well.”
                    Roger began a sentence to the effect that if Fairmile had no scruples of his
                        own, Chloe would scarcely have taught him any; but he checked himself abruptly in the middle, and the
                        two men passed to other topics. French began to talk of East London, and the
                        parish he was to have there. Roger, indifferent at first, did not remain so.
                        He did not profess, indeed, any enthusiasm of humanity; but French found in
                        him new curiosities. That children should starve, and slave, and
                            suffer—that moved him. He was, at any rate, for hanging the
                        parents.
                    The day of the Upcott visit came, and, in spite of all recalcitrance, Roger
                        was made to mount the motor beside his wife. Lady Barnes had entirely
                        refused to go, and Mr. and Mrs. French had departed that morning for
                        Eton.
                    As the thing was inevitable, Roger's male philosophy came to his aid. Better
                        laugh and have done with it. So that, as he and Daphne sped along the autumn
                        lanes, he talked about anything and everything. He expressed, for instance,
                        his friendly admiration for Elsie French.
                    “She's just the wife for old Herbert—and, by George, she's in love with
                        him!”
                    “A great deal too much in love with him!” said Daphne, sharply. The day was
                        chilly, with a strong east wind blowing, and Daphne's small figure and face
                        were enveloped in a marvellous wrap, compounded in equal 
                            pro-
                            proportions
                         portions of Russian sables and
                        white cloth. It had not long arrived from Worth, and Roger had allowed
                        himself some jibes as to its probable cost. Daphne's “simplicity,” the pose
                        of her girlhood, was in fact breaking down in all directions. The arrogant
                        spending instinct had gained upon the moderating and self-restraining
                        instinct. The results often made Barnes uncomfortable. But he was
                        inarticulate, and easily intimidated—by Daphne. With regard to Mrs. French,
                        however, he took up the cudgels at once. Why shouldn't Elsie adore her man,
                        if it pleased her? Old Herbert was worth it.
                    Women, said Daphne, should never put themselves wholly in a man's power.
                        Moreover, wifely adoration was particularly bad for clergymen, who were far
                        too much inclined already to give themselves airs.
                    “I say! Herbert never gives himself airs!”
                    “They both did—to me. They have quite different ways from us, and they make
                        one feel it. They have family prayers—we don't. They have ascetic ideas
                        about bringing up children—I haven't. Elsie would think it self-indulgent
                        and abominable to stay in bed to breakfast—I don't. The fact is, all her
                        interests and ideals are quite different from mine, and I am rather tired of
                        being made to feel inferior.”
                    “Daphne! what rubbish! I'm certain Elsie
                        French never had such an idea in her head. She's awfully soft and nice; I
                        never saw a bit of conceit in her.”
                    “She's soft outside and steel inside. Well, never mind! we don't get on.
                        She's the old America, I'm the new,” said Daphne, half frowning, half
                        laughing; “and I'm as good as she.”
                    “You're a very good-looking woman, anyway,” said Roger, admiring the vision
                        of her among the warm browns and shining whites of her wrap. “Much
                        better-looking than when I married you.” He slipped an arm under the cloak
                        and gave her small waist a squeeze.
                    Daphne turned her eyes upon him. In their black depths his touch had roused a
                        passion which was by no means all tenderness. There was in it something
                        threatening, something intensely and inordinately possessive. “That means
                        that you didn't think me good-looking at all, as compared with—Chloe?” she
                        said insistently.
                    “Really, Daphne!”—Roger withdrew his arm with a rather angry laugh—“the way
                        you twist what one says! I declare I won't make you any more pretty speeches
                        for an age.”
                    Daphne scarcely replied; but there dawned on her face the smile—melting,
                        provocative, intent—which is the natural weapon of such a temperament. With
                        a quick movement she nestled to her
                        husband's side, and Roger was soon appeased.
                    The visit which followed always counted in Roger Barnes's memory as the first
                        act of the tragedy, the first onset of the evil that engulfed him.
                    They found the old Duchess, Mrs. Fairmile, and Dr. Lelius, alone. The Duchess
                        had been the penniless daughter of an Irish clergyman, married en secondes noces for her somewhat queer and
                        stimulating personality, by an epicurean duke, who, after having provided
                        the family with a sufficient store of dull children by an aristocratic
                        mother, thought himself at liberty, in his declining years, to please
                        himself. He had left her the dower-house—small but delicately Jacobean—and
                        she was now nearly as old as the Duke had been when he married her. She was
                        largely made, shapeless, and untidy. Her mannish face and head were tied up
                        in a kind of lace coif; she had long since abandoned all thought of a waist;
                        and her strong chin rested on an ample bosom.
                    As soon as Mrs. Barnes was seated near her hostess, Lelius—who had an
                        intimate acquaintance, through their pictures, with half the great people of
                        Europe—began to observe the Duchess's impressions. Amused curiosity, first.
                        Evidently Daphne represented to her one of the queer, crude types that modern society is always
                        throwing up on the shores of life—like strange beasts from deep-sea
                        soundings.
                    An American heiress, half Spanish—South-American Spanish—with no doubt a dash
                        of Indian; no manners, as Europe understands them; unlimited money, and
                        absurd pretensions—so Chloe said—in the matter of art; a mixture of the
                        pedant and the parvenue: where on earth
                        had young Barnes picked her up! It was in some such way, no doubt—so Lelius
                        guessed—that the Duchess's thoughts were running.
                    Meanwhile Mrs. Barnes was treated with all possible civility. The Duchess
                        inquired into the plans for rebuilding Heston; talked of her own
                        recollections of the place, and its owners; hoped that Mrs. Barnes was
                        pleased with the neighbourhood; and finally asked the stock question, “And
                        how do you like England?”
                    Daphne looked at her coolly. “Moderately!” she said, with a smile, the colour
                        rising in her cheek as she became aware, without looking at them, that Roger
                        and Mrs. Fairmile had adjourned to the farther end of the large room,
                        leaving her to the Duchess and Lelius.
                    The small eyes above the Duchess's prominent nose sparkled. “Only
                        moderately?” The speaker's tone expressed that she had been for once taken by surprise. “I'm extremely sorry we
                        don't please you, Mrs. Barnes.”
                    “You see, my expectations were so high.”
                    “Is it the country, or the climate, or the people, that won't do?” inquired
                        the Duchess, amused.
                    “I suppose it would be civil to say the climate,” replied Daphne,
                        laughing.
                    Whereupon the Duchess saw that her visitor had made up her mind not to be
                        overawed. The great lady summoned Dr. Lelius to her aid, and she, the
                        German, and Daphne, kept up a sparring conversation, in which Mrs. Barnes,
                        driven on by a secret wrath, showed herself rather noisier than Englishwomen
                        generally are. She was a little impertinent, the Duchess thought, decidedly
                        aggressive, and not witty enough to carry it off.
                    Meanwhile, Daphne had instantly perceived that Mrs. Fairmile and Roger had
                        disappeared into the conservatory; and though she talked incessantly through
                        their absence, she felt each minute of it. When they came back for tea, she
                        imagined that Roger looked embarrassed, while Mrs. Fairmile was all gaiety,
                        chatting to her companion, her face raised to his, in the manner of one
                        joyously renewing an old intimacy. As they slowly advanced up the long room,
                        Daphne felt it almost intolerable to watch them, and her pulses began to
                        race. Why had she never been
                        told of this thing? That was what rankled; and the Southern wildness in her
                        blood sent visions of the past and terrors of the future hurrying through
                        her brain, even while she went on talking fast and recklessly to the
                        Duchess.
                    At tea-time conversation turned on the various beautiful things which the
                        room contained—its Nattiers, its Gobelins, its two dessus de portes by Boucher, and its two cabinets, of which
                        one had belonged to Beaumarchais and the other to the Appartement du Dauphin at Versailles.
                    Daphne restrained herself for a time, asked questions, and affected no
                        special knowledge. Then, at a pause, she lifted a careless hand, inquiring
                        whether “the Fragonard sketch” opposite were not the pendant of one—she
                        named it—at Berlin.
                    “Ah-h-h!” said Mrs. Fairmile, with a smiling shake of the head, “how clever
                        of you! But that's not a Fragonard. I wish it were. It's an unknown. Dr.
                        Lelius has given him a name.”
                    And she and Lelius fell into a discussion of the drawing, that soon left
                        Daphne behind. Native taste of the finest, mingled with the training of a
                        lifetime, the intimate knowledge of collections of one who had lived among
                            them from her childhood—these things
                        had long since given Chloe Fairmile a kind of European reputation. Daphne
                        stumbled after her, consumed with angry envy, the précieuse in her resenting the easy mastery of Mrs. Fairmile,
                        and the wife in her offended by the strange beauty, the soft audacities of a
                        woman who had once, it seemed, held Roger captive, and would, of course,
                        like to hold him captive again.
                    She burned in some way to assert herself, the imperious will chafing at the
                        slender barrier of self-control. And some malicious god did, in fact, send
                        an opportunity.
                    After tea, when Roger, in spite of efforts to confine himself to the Duchess,
                        had been once more drawn into the orbit of Mrs. Fairmile, as she sat
                        fingering a cigarette between the two men, and gossiping of people and
                        politics, the butler entered, and whispered a message to the Duchess.
                    The mistress of the house laughed. “Chloe! who do you think has called? Old
                        Marcus, of South Audley Street. He's been at Brendon House—buying up their
                        Romneys, I should think. And as he was passing here, he wished to show me
                        something. Shall we have him in?”
                    “By all means! The last time he was here he offered you four thousand pounds
                        for the blue Nattier,” said Chloe, with a smile, pointing to the
                        picture.
                    
                    The Duchess gave orders; and an elderly man, with long black hair, swarthy
                        complexion, fine eyes, and a peaked forehead, was admitted, and greeted by
                        her, Mrs. Fairmile, and Dr. Lelius as an old acquaintance. He sat down
                        beside them, was given tea, and presented to Mr. and Mrs. Barnes. Daphne,
                        who knew the famous dealer by sight and reputation perfectly well, was
                        piqued that he did not recognise her. Yet she well remembered having given
                        him an important commission not more than a year before her marriage.
                    As soon as a cup of tea had been despatched, Marcus came to the business. He
                        drew a small leather case out of the bag he had brought into the room with
                        him; and the case, being opened, disclosed a small but marvellous piece of
                        Sèvres.
                    “There!” he said, pointing triumphantly to a piece on the Duchess's
                        chimney-piece. “Your Grace asked me—oh! ten years ago—and again last year—to
                        find you the pair of that. Now—you have it!”
                    He put the two together, and the effect was great. The Duchess looked at it
                        with greed—the greed of the connoisseur. But she shook her head.
                    “Marcus, I have no money.”
                    “Oh!” He protested, smiling and shrugging his shoulders.
                    
                    “And I know you want a brigand's price for it.”
                    “Oh, nothing—nothing at all.”
                    The Duchess took it up, and regretfully turned it round and round.
                    “A thousand, Marcus?” she said, looking up.
                    He laughed, and would not reply.
                    “That means more, Marcus: how do you imagine that an old woman like me, with
                        only just enough for bread and butter, can waste her money on Sèvres?” He
                        grinned. She put it down resolutely. “No! I've got a consumptive nephew with
                        a consumptive family. He ought to have been hung for marrying, but I've got
                        to send them all to Davos this winter. No, I can't, Marcus; I can't—I'm too
                        poor.” But her eyes caressed the shining thing.
                    Daphne bent forward. “If the Duchess has really made up her
                        mind, Mr. Marcus, I will take it. It would just suit me!”
                    Marcus started on his chair. “Pardon,
                            Madame!” he said, turning hastily to look at the slender lady
                        in white, of whom he had as yet taken no notice.
                    “We have the motor. We can take it with us,” said Daphne, stretching out her
                        hand for it triumphantly.
                    “Madame,” said Marcus, in some agitation, “I have not the honour. The
                        price—”
                    
                    “The price doesn't matter,” said Daphne, smiling. “You know me quite well,
                        Mr. Marcus. Do you remember selling a Louis Seize cabinet to Miss
                        Floyd?”
                    “Ah!” The dealer was on his feet in a moment, saluting, excusing himself.
                        Daphne heard him with graciousness. She was now the centre of the situation:
                        she had asserted herself, and her money. Marcus outdid himself in homage.
                        Lelius in the background looked on, a sarcastic smile hidden by his fair
                        moustache. Mrs. Fairmile, too, smiled; Roger had grown rather hot; and the
                        Duchess was frankly annoyed.
                    “I surrender it to force majeure,” she
                        said, as Daphne took it from her. “Why are we not all Americans?”
                    And then, leaning back in her chair, she would talk no more. The pleasure of
                        the visit, so far as it had ever existed, was at an end.
                    But before the Barnes motor departed homewards, Mrs. Fairmile had again found
                        means to carry Roger Barnes out of sight and hearing into the garden. Roger
                        had not been able to avoid it; and Daphne, hugging the leather case, had,
                        all the same, to look on.
                    When they were once more alone together, speeding through the bright sunset
                        air, each found the other on edge.
                    
                    “You were rather rough on the Duchess, Daphne!” Roger protested. “It wasn't
                        quite nice, was it, outbidding her like that in her own house?”
                    Daphne flared up at once, declaring that she wanted no lessons in deportment
                        from him or anyone else, and then demanding fiercely what was the meaning of
                        his two disappearances with Mrs. Fairmile. Whereupon Roger lost his temper
                        still more decidedly, refusing to give any account of himself, and the drive
                        passed in a continuous quarrel, which only just stopped short, on Daphne's
                        side, of those outrageous and insulting things which were burning at the
                        back of her tongue, while she could not as yet bring herself to say
                        them.
                    An unsatisfactory peace was patched up during the evening. But in the dead of
                        night Daphne sat up in bed, looking at the face and head of her husband
                        beside her on the pillow. He lay peacefully sleeping, the noble outline of
                        brow and features still nobler in the dim light which effaced all the
                        weaker, emptier touches. Daphne felt rising within her that mingled passion
                        of the jealous woman, which is half love, half hate, of which she had felt
                        the first stirrings in her early jealousy of Elsie Maddison. It was the
                        clutch of something racial and inherited—a something which the Northerner
                        hardly knows. She had felt it before on one
                         or two occasions, but not with this
                        intensity. The grace of Chloe Fairmile haunted her memory, and the
                        perfection, the corrupt perfection of her appeal to men, men like Roger.
                    She must wring from him—she must and would—a much fuller history of his
                        engagement. And of those conversations in the garden, too. It stung her to
                        recollect that, after all, he had given her no account of them. She was very
                        sure they had not been ordinary conversations!—Mrs. Fairmile was not the
                        person to waste her time in chit-chat.
                    A gust of violence swept through her. She had given Roger everything—money,
                        ease, amusement. Where would he have been without her? And his mother,
                        too?—tiresome, obstructive woman! For the first time that veil of the
                        unspoken, that mist of loving illusion which preserves all human relations,
                        broke down between Daphne and her marriage. Her thoughts dwelt, in a vulgar
                        detail, on the money she had settled upon Roger—on his tendencies to
                        extravagance—his happy-go-lucky self-confident ways. He would have been a
                        pauper but for her; but now that he had her money safe, without a word to
                        her of his previous engagement, no doubt he and Mrs. Fairmile supposed they
                        might do as they pleased. The heat and corrosion of this idea spread through
                        her being, and the will made no fight against it.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VII
                    “YOU'RE off to the meet?”
                    “I am. Look at the day!”
                    Chloe Fairmile, who was standing in her riding-habit at the window of the
                        Duchess's morning-room, turned to greet her hostess.
                    A mild November sun shone on the garden and the woods, and Chloe's face—the
                        more exquisite as a rule for its slight, strange withering—had caught a
                        freshness from the morning.
                    The Duchess was embraced, and bore it; she herself never kissed anybody.
                    “You always look well, my dear, in a habit, and you know it. Tell me what I
                        shall do with this invitation.”
                    “From Lady Warton? May I look?”
                    Chloe took a much blotted and crossed letter from the Duchess's hand.
                    “What were her governesses about?” said the Duchess, pointing to it.
                            “Really—the education of our class! Read it!”
                    ... “Can I persuade you to come—and bring Mrs. Fairmile—next Tuesday to
                        dinner, to meet Roger Barnes and his wife? I groan at the thought, for I think she is quite one of
                        the most disagreeable little creatures I ever saw. But Warton says I must—a
                        Lord-Lieutenant can't pick and choose!—and people as rich as they are have
                        to be considered. I can't imagine why it is she makes herself so odious. All
                        the Americans I ever knew I have liked particularly. It is, of course,
                        annoying that they have so much money—but Warton says it isn't their
                        fault—it's Protection, or something of the kind. But Mrs. Barnes seems
                        really to wish to trample on us. She told Warton the other day that his
                        tapestries—you know, those we're so proud of—that they were bad Flemish
                        copies of something or other—a set belonging to a horrid friend of hers, I
                        think. Warton was furious. And she's made the people at Brendon love her for
                        ever by insisting that they have now ruined all their pictures
                        without exception, by the way they've had them restored—et cetera, et
                        cetera. She really makes us feel her millions—and her brains—too much. We're
                        paupers, but we're not worms. Then there's the Archdeacon—why should she
                        fall foul of him? He tells Warton that her principles are really shocking.
                        She told him she saw no reason why people should stick to their husbands or
                        wives longer than it pleased them—and that in America nobody did! He doesn't
                        wish Mrs. Mountford to see much of her;—
                        though, really, my dear, I don't think Mrs. M. is likely to give him
                        trouble—do you? And I hear, of course, that she thinks us all dull and
                        stuck-up, and as ignorant as savages. It's so odd she shouldn't even want to
                        be liked!—a young woman in a strange neighbourhood. But she evidently
                        doesn't, a bit. Warton declares she's already tired of Roger—and she's
                        certainly not nice to him. What can be the matter? Anyway, dear Duchess,
                            do come and help us through.”
                    “What, indeed, can be the matter?” repeated Chloe lightly, as she handed back
                        the letter.
                    “Angela Warton never knows anything. But there's not much need for
                            you to ask, my dear,” said the Duchess quietly.
                    Mrs. Fairmile turned an astonished face.
                    “Me?”
                    The Duchess, more bulky, shapeless and swathed than usual, subsided on a
                        chair, and just raised her small but sharp eyes on Mrs. Fairmile.
                    “What can you mean?” said Chloe, after a moment, in her gayest voice. “I
                        can't imagine. And I don't think I'll try.”
                    She stooped and kissed the untidy lady in the chair. The Duchess bore it
                        again, but the lines of her mouth, with the strong droop at the corners,
                        became a trifle grim. Chloe looked at her,
                        smiled, shook her head. The Duchess shook hers, and then they both began to
                        talk of an engagement announced that morning in The
                        Times.
                    Mrs. Fairmile was soon riding alone, without a groom—she was an excellent
                        horsewoman, and she never gave any unnecessary trouble to her friends'
                        servants—through country lanes chequered with pale sun. As for the Duchess's
                        attack upon her, Chloe smarted. The Duchess had clearly pulled her up, and
                        Chloe was not a person who took it well.
                    If Roger's American wife was by now wildly jealous of his old fiancée, whose fault was it? Had not Mrs.
                        Barnes herself thrown them perpetually together? Dinners at
                        Upcott!—invitations to Heston!—a resolute frequenting of the same festal
                        gatherings with Mrs. Fairmile. None of it with Roger's goodwill, or his
                        mother's,—Chloe admitted it. It had been the wife's doing—all of it. There
                        had been even—rare occurrences—two or three balls in the neighbourhood.
                        Roger hated dancing, but Daphne had made him go to them all. Merely that she
                        might display her eyes, her diamonds, and her gowns? Not at all. The real
                        psychology of it was plain. “She wishes to keep us under observation—to give
                        us opportunities—and then torment her
                        husband. Very well then!—tu l'as voulu,
                            Madame!”
                    As to the “opportunities,” Chloe coolly confessed to herself that she had
                        made rather a scandalous use of them. The gossip of the neighbourhood had
                        been no doubt a good deal roused; and Daphne, it seemed, was discontented.
                        But is it not good for such people to be discontented? The money and the
                        arrogance of Roger's wife had provoked Roger's former fiancée from the beginning; the money to envy,
                        and the arrogance to chastisement. Why not? What is society but a
                        discipline?
                    As for Roger, who is it says there is a little polygamy in all men? Anyway, a
                        man can always—nearly always—keep a corner for the old love, if the new love
                        will let him. Roger could, at any rate; “though he is a model husband, far
                        better than she deserves, and anybody not a fool could manage him.”
                    It was a day of physical delight, especially for riders. After a warm
                        October, the leaves were still thick on the trees; Nature had not yet
                        resigned herself to death and sleep. Here and there an oak stood, fully
                        green, among the tawny reds and golds of a flaming woodland. The gorse was
                        yellow on the commons; and in the damp woody ways through which Chloe passed, a few primroses—frail,
                        unseasonable blooms—pushed their pale heads through the moss. The scent of
                        the beech-leaves under foot; the buffeting of a westerly wind; the pleasant
                        yielding of her light frame to the movement of the horse; the glimpses of
                        plain that every here and there showed themselves through the trees that
                        girdled the high ground or edge along which she rode; the white steam-wreath
                        of a train passing, far away, through strata of blue or pearly mist; an old
                        windmill black in the middle distance; villages, sheltering among their
                        hedges and uplands; a sky, of shadow below widely brooding over earth, and
                        of a radiant blue flecked with white cloud above:—all the English familiar
                        scene, awoke in Chloe Fairmile a familiar sensuous joy. Life was so
                        good—every minute, every ounce of it!—from the Duchess's chef to these ethereal splendours of
                        autumn—from the warm bath, the luxurious bed, and breakfast, she had but
                        lately enjoyed, to these artistic memories that ran through her brain, as
                        she glanced from side to side, reminded now of Turner, now of De Wint,
                        revelling in the complexity of her own being. Her conscience gave her no
                        trouble; it had never been more friendly. Her husband and she had come to an
                        understanding; they were in truth more than quits. There was to be no
                        divorce—and no scandal. She would be very
                        prudent. A man's face rose before her that was not the face of her husband,
                        and she smiled—indulgently. Yes, life would be interesting when she returned
                        to town. She had taken a house in Chester Square from the New Year; and Tom
                        was going to Teheran. Meanwhile, she was passing the time.
                    A thought suddenly occurred to her. Yes, it was quite possible—probable
                        even—that she might find Roger at the meet! The place appointed was a long
                        way from Heston, but in the old days he had often sent on a fresh horse by
                        train to a local station. They had had many a run together over the fields
                        now coming into sight. Though certainly if he imagined there were the very
                        smallest chance of finding her there, he would give this particular meet a
                        wide berth.
                    Chloe laughed aloud. His resistance—and his weakness—were both so amusing.
                        She thought of the skill—the peremptory smiling skill—with which she had
                        beguiled him into the garden, on the day when the young couple paid their
                        first call at Upcott. First, the low-spoken words at the back of the
                        drawing-room, while Mrs. Barnes and the Duchess were skirmishing—
                    “I must speak to you. Something that concerns another
                        person—something urgent.”
                    Whereupon, unwilling and rather stern 
                            com-
                            compliance
                         pliance on the man's part—the
                        handsome face darkened with most unnecessary frowns. And in the garden, the
                        short colloquy between them—“Of course, I see—you haven't forgiven me! Never
                        mind! I am doing this for someone else—it's a duty.” Then abruptly—“You
                        still have three of my letters.”
                    Amusing again—his shock of surprise, his blundering denials! He always was
                        the most unmethodical and unbusinesslike of mortals—poor Roger! She heard
                        her own voice in reply. “Oh yes, you have. I don't make mistakes about such
                        things. Do you remember the letter in which I told you about that affair of
                        Theresa Weightman?”
                    A stare—an astonished admission. Precisely!
                    “Well, she's in great trouble. Her husband threatens absurdities. She has
                        always confided in me—she trusts me, and I can't have that letter wandering
                        about the world.”
                    “I certainly sent it back!”
                    “No—you never sent it back. You have three of mine. And you know how careless
                        you are—how you leave things about. I was always on tenterhooks. Look again,
                            please! You must have some idea where they might be.”
                    Perplexity—annoyance!
                    “When we sold the London house, all papers
                        and documents were sent down here. We reserved a room—which was locked
                        up.”
                    “À la bonne heure! Of course—there they
                        are.”
                    But all the same—great unwillingness to search. It was most unlikely he would
                        be able to find anything—most unlikely there was anything to find. He was
                        sure he had sent back everything. And then a look in the fine hazel
                        eyes—like a horse putting back its ears.
                    All of no avail—against the laughing persistence which insisted on the
                        letters. “But I must have them—I really must! It is a horrid tragedy, and I
                        told you everything—things I had no business to tell you at all.”
                    On which, at last, a grudging consent to look, followed by a marked
                        determination to go back to the drawing-room....
                    But it was the second tête-à-tête that was
                        really adroit! After tea—just a touch on the arm—while the Duchess was
                        showing the Nattiers to Mrs. Barnes, and Lelius was holding the lamp. “One
                        moment more!—in the conservatory. I have a few things to add.” And in that
                        second little interview—about nothing, in truth—a mere piece of audacity—the
                        lion's claws had been a good deal pared. He had been made to look at her,
                        first and foremost; to realise that she was not afraid of him—not one
                        bit!—and that he would have to treat her
                        decently. Poor Roger! In a few years the girl he had married would be a
                        plain and prickly little pedant—ill-bred besides—and he knew it.
                    As to more recent adventures. If people meet in society, they must be civil;
                        and if old friends meet at a dance, there is an institution known as
                        “sitting out”; and “sitting out” is nothing if not conversational; and
                        conversation—between old friends and cousins—is beguiling, and may be
                        lengthy.
                    The ball at Brendon House—Chloe still felt the triumph of it in her
                        veins—still saw the softening in Roger's handsome face, the look of lazy
                        pleasure, and the disapproval—or was it the envy?—in the eyes of certain
                        county magnates looking on. Since then, no communication between Heston and
                        Upcott.
                    Mrs. Fairmile was now a couple of miles from the meet. She had struck into a
                        great belt of plantations bounding one side of the ducal estate. Through it
                        ran a famous green ride, crossed near its beginning by a main road. On her
                        right, beyond the thick screen of trees, was the railway, and she could hear
                        the occasional rush of a train.
                    When she reached the cross road, which led from a station, a labourer opened
                        the plantation gates for her. As he unlatched the second, she perceived a man's figure in front of
                        her.
                    “Roger!”
                    A touch of the whip—her horse sprang forward. The man in front looked back
                        startled; but she was already beside him.
                    “You keep up the old habit, like me? What a lovely day!”
                    Roger Barnes, after a flush of amazement and surprise, greeted her coldly:
                        “It is a long way for you to come,” he said formally. “Twelve miles, isn't
                        it? You're not going to hunt?”
                    “Oh, no! I only came to look at the hounds and the horses—to remind myself of
                        all the good old times. You don't want to remember them, I know. Life's gone
                        on for you!”
                    Roger bent forward to pat the neck of his horse. “It goes on for all of us,”
                        he said gruffly.
                    “Ah, well!” She sighed. He looked up and their eyes met. The wind had
                        slightly reddened her pale skin: her expression was one of great animation,
                        yet of great softness. The grace of the long, slender body in the
                        close-fitting habit; of the beautiful head and loosened hair under the
                        small, low-crowned beaver hat; the slender hand upon the reins—all these
                        various impressions rushed upon Barnes at once, bringing with them the fascination of a past
                        happiness, provoking, by contrast, the memory of a harassing and irritating
                        present.
                    “Is Heston getting on?” asked Mrs. Fairmile, smiling.
                    He frowned involuntarily.
                    “Oh, I suppose we shall be straight some day;” the tone, however, belied the
                        words. “When once the British workman gets in, it's the deuce to get him
                        out.”
                    “The old house had such a charm!” said Chloe softly.
                    Roger made no reply. He rode stiffly beside her, looking straight before him.
                        Chloe, observing him without appearing to do anything of the kind, asked
                        herself whether the Apollo radiance of him were not already somewhat
                        quenched and shorn. A slight thickening of feature—a slight coarsening of
                        form—she thought she perceived them. Poor Roger!—had he been living too well
                        and idling too flagrantly on these American dollars?
                    Suddenly she bent over and laid a gloved hand on his arm.
                    “Hadn't it?” she said, in a low voice.
                    He started. But he neither looked at her nor shook her off.
                    “What—the house?” was the ungracious reply. “I'm sure I don't know; I never
                        thought about it—whether it was pretty or ugly, I mean. It suited us, and it amused mother to
                        fiddle about with it.”
                    Mrs. Fairmile withdrew her hand.
                    “Of course a great deal of it was ugly,” she said composedly. “Dear Lady
                        Barnes really didn't know. But then we led such a jolly life in
                            it—we made it!”
                    She looked at him brightly, only to see in him an angry flash of expression.
                        He turned and faced her.
                    “I'm glad you think it was jolly. My remembrances are not quite so
                        pleasant.”
                    She laughed a little—not flinching at all—her face rosy to his challenge.
                    “Oh, yes, they are—or should be. What's the use of blackening the past
                        because it couldn't be the present? My dear Roger, if I hadn't—well, let's
                        talk plainly!—if I hadn't thrown you over, where would you be now? We should
                        be living in West Kensington, and I should be taking boarders—or—no!—a
                        country-house, perhaps, with paying guests. You would be teaching the
                        cockney idea how to shoot, at half a guinea a day, and I should be buying my
                        clothes second-hand through The Exchange and Mart.
                        Whereas—whereas—”
                    She bent forward again.
                    “You are a very rich man—you have a charming wife—a dear little girl—you can
                            get into Parliament—travel, speculate,
                        race, anything you please. And I did it all!”
                    “I don't agree with you,” he said drily. She laughed again.
                    “Well, we can't argue it—can we? I only wanted to point out to you the plain,
                        bare truth, that there is nothing in the world to prevent our being
                        excellent friends again—now. But first—and once more—my
                            letters!”
                    Her tone was a little peremptory, and Roger's face clouded.
                    “I found two of them last night, by the merest chance—in an old despatch-box
                        I took to America. They were posted to you on the way here.”
                    “Good! But there were three.”
                    “I know—so you said. I could only find two.”
                    “Was the particular letter I mentioned one of them?”
                    He answered unwillingly.
                    “No. I searched everywhere. I don't believe I have it.”
                    She shook her head with decision.
                    “You certainly have it. Please look again.”
                    He broke out with some irritation, insisting that if it had not been returned
                        it had been either lost or destroyed. It could matter to no one.
                    
                    Some snaring, entangling instinct—an instinct of the hunter—made her persist.
                        She must have it. It was a point of honour. “Poor Theresa is so unhappy, so
                        pursued! You saw that odious paragraph last week? I can't run the risk!”
                    With a groan of annoyance, he promised at last that he would look again. Then
                        the sparkling eyes changed, the voice softened.
                    She praised—she rewarded him. By smooth transitions she slipped into ordinary
                        talk; of his candidature for the County Council—the points of the great
                        horse he rode—the gossip of the neighbourhood—the charms of Beatty.
                    And on this last topic he, too, suddenly found his tongue. The cloud—of
                        awkwardness, or of something else not to be analysed—broke away, and he
                        began to talk, and presently to ask questions, with readiness, even with
                        eagerness.
                    Was it right to be so very strict with children?—babies under three? Wasn't
                        it ridiculous to expect them not to be naughty or greedy? Why, every child
                        wanted as much sweetstuff as it could tuck in! Quite right too—doctors said
                        it was good for them. But Miss Farmer—
                    “Who is Miss Farmer?” inquired Mrs. Fairmile. She was riding close beside
                            him—an embodied friendliness—a soft
                        and womanly Chloe, very different from the old.
                    “She's the nurse; my mother found her. She's a lady—by way of—she doesn't do
                        any rough work—and I dare say she's the newest thing out. But she's too
                        tight a hand for my taste. I say!—what do you think of this! She wouldn't
                        let Beattie come down to the drawing-room yesterday, because she cried for a
                        sweet! Wasn't that devilish!” He brought his hand down fiercely
                        on his thigh.
                    “A Gorgon!” said Mrs. Fairmile, raising her eyebrows. “Any other
                        qualifications? French? German?”
                    “Not a word. Not she! Her people live somewhere near here, I believe.” Roger
                        looked vaguely round him. “Her father managed a brick-field on this
                        estate—some parson or other recommended her to mother.”
                    “And you don't like her?”
                    “Well, no—I don't! She's not the kind of woman I want.” He
                        blurted it out, adding hurriedly, “But my wife thinks a lot of her.”
                    Chloe dismissed the topic of the nurse, but still let him run on about the
                        child. Amazing!—this development of paternity in the careless, handsome
                        youth of three years before. She was amused and bored by it. But her
                        permission of it had thawed him—that she saw.
                    
                    Presently, from the child she led him on to common acquaintance—old
                        friends—and talk flowed fast. She made him laugh; and the furrows in the
                        young brow disappeared. Now as always they understood each other at a word;
                        there was between them the freemasonry of persons sprung from the same world
                        and the same tradition; his daily talk with Daphne had never this easy,
                        slipping pleasure. Meanwhile the horses sauntered on, unconsciously held
                        back; and the magical autumn wood, its lights and lines and odours, played
                        upon their senses.
                    At last Roger with a start perceived a gate in front. He looked at his watch,
                        and she saw him redden.
                    “We shall be late for the meet.”
                    His eyes avoided hers. He gathered up the reins, evidently conscious.
                    Smiling, she let him open the gate for her, and then as they passed into the
                        road, shadowed with overarching trees, she reined in Whitefoot, and bending
                        forward, held out her hand. “Good-bye!”
                    “You're not coming?”
                    “I think I've had enough. I'll go home. Good-bye.”
                    It was a relief. In both minds had risen the image of their arrival
                        together—amid the crowd of the meet. As he looked at her—
                            grate-
                            gratefully
                         fully—the grace of her movement,
                        the temptation of her eyes, the rush of old memories suddenly turned his
                        head. He gripped her hand hard for a minute, staring at her.
                    The road in front of them was quite empty. But fifty yards behind them was a
                        small redbrick house buried in trees. As they still paused, hand in hand, in
                        front of the gate into the wood, which had failed to swing back and remained
                        half open, the garden door of this house unclosed and a young woman in a
                        kind of uniform stepped into the road. She perceived the two riders—stopped
                        in astonishment—observed them unseen, and walked quickly away in the
                        direction of the station.
                    Roger reached Heston that night only just in time to dress for dinner.
                    By this time he was in a wholly different mood; angry with himself, and full
                        of rueful thought about his wife. Daphne and he had been getting on anything
                        but well for some time past. He knew that he had several times behaved
                        badly; why, indeed, that very afternoon, had he held Chloe Fairmile's hand
                        in the public road, like an idiot? Suppose anyone had passed? It was only
                        Daphne's tempers and the discomfort at home that made an hour with Chloe so
                        pleasant—and brought the old recollections back. He vowed he never
                            thought of her, except when she was
                        there to make a fool of him—or plague him about those beastly letters.
                        Whereas Daphne—Daphne was always in his mind, and this eclipse into which
                        their daily life had passed. He seemed to be always tripping and stumbling,
                        like a lame man among loose stones; doing or saying what he did not mean to
                        do or say, and tongue-tied when he should have spoken. Daphne's jealousy
                        made him ridiculous; he resented it hotly; yet he knew he was not altogether
                        blameless.
                    If only something could be done to make Daphne like Heston and the
                        neighbours! But he saw plainly enough that in spite of all the effort and
                        money she was pouring out upon the house, it gave her very little pleasure
                        in return. Her heart was not in it. And as for the neighbours, she had
                        scarcely a good word now for any of them. Jolly!—just as he was going to
                        stand for the County Council, with an idea of Parliament later on! And as
                        for what he wished—what would be good for him—that
                        she never seemed to think of. And, really, some of the things she said now
                        and then about money—nobody with the spirit of a mouse could stand them.
                    To comfort his worries he went first of all to the nursery, where he found
                        the nursery-maid in charge, and the child already asleep. Miss Farmer, it appeared, had been enjoying a
                        “day off,” and was not expected back till late. He knelt down beside the
                        little girl, feeding his eyes upon her. She lay with her delicate face
                        pressed into the pillow, the small neck visible under the cloud of hair, one
                        hand, the soft palm uppermost, on the sheet. He bent down and kissed the
                        hand, glad that the sharp-faced nurse was not there to see. The touch of the
                        fragrant skin thrilled him with pride and joy; so did the lovely
                        defencelessness of the child's sleep. That such a possession should have
                        been given to him, to guard and cherish! There was in his mind a passionate
                        vow to guard the little thing—aye, with his life-blood; and then a movement
                        of laughter at his own heroics. Well!—Daphne might give him sons—but he did
                        not suppose any other child could ever be quite the same to him as Beatty.
                        He sat in a contented silence, feeding his eyes upon her, as the soft breath
                        rose and fell. And as he did so, his temper softened and warmed towards
                        Beatty's mother.
                    A little later he found Daphne in her room, already dressed for dinner. He
                        approached her uneasily.
                    “How tired you look, Daphne! What have you been doing to yourself?”
                    Daphne stiffly pointed out that she had been standing over the workmen all
                        day, there being no one else to stand over
                        them, and of course she was tired. Her manner would have provoked him but
                        for the visiting of an inward compunction. Instead of showing annoyance he
                        bent down and kissed her.
                    “I'll stay and help to-morrow, if you want me, though you know I'm no good. I
                        say, how much more are you going to do to the house?”
                    Daphne looked at him coldly. She had not returned the kiss. “Of course, I
                        know that you don't appreciate in the least what I am doing!”
                    Roger thrust his hands into his pockets, and walked up and down
                        uncomfortably. He thought, in fact, that Daphne was spoiling the dear
                        nondescript old place, and he knew that the neighbourhood thought so too.
                        Also he particularly disliked the young architect who was superintending the
                        works (“a priggish ass,” who gave himself abominable airs—except to Daphne,
                        whom he slavishly obeyed, and to Miss Farmer, with whom Roger had twice
                        caught him gossiping). But he was determined not to anger his wife, and he
                        held his tongue.
                    “I wish, anyway, you wouldn't stick at it so closely,” he said
                        discontentedly. “Let's go abroad somewhere for Christmas—Nice, or Monte
                        Carlo. I am sure you want a change.”
                    
                    “Well, it isn't exactly an enchanting neighbourhood,” said Daphne, with
                        pinched lips.
                    “I'm awfully sorry you don't like the people here,” said Roger, perplexed. “I
                        dare say they're all stupids.”
                    “That wouldn't matter—if they behaved decently,” said Daphne, flushing.
                    “I suppose that means—if I behaved decently!” cried Roger, turning upon
                        her.
                    Daphne faced him, her head in air, her small foot beating the ground, in a
                        trick it had.
                    “Well, I'm not likely to forget the Brendon ball, am I?”
                    Roger's look changed.
                    “I meant no harm, and you know I didn't,” he said sulkily.
                    “Oh, no, you only made a laughing-stock of me!” Daphne turned on
                        her heel. Suddenly she felt herself roughly caught in Roger's arms.
                    “Daphne, what is the matter? Why can't we be happy
                        together?”
                    “Ask yourself,” she said, trying to extricate herself, and not succeeding. “I
                        don't like the people here, and they don't like me. But as you seem to enjoy
                        flirting with Mrs. Fairmile, there's one person satisfied.”
                    Roger laughed—not agreeably. “I shall soon think, Daphne, that somebody's
                        ‘put a spell on you,’ as my old nurse used
                        to say. I wish I knew what I could do to break it.”
                    She lay passive in his arms a moment, and then he felt a shiver run through
                        her, and saw that she was crying. He held her close to him, kissing and
                        comforting her, while his own eyes were wet. What her emotion meant, or his
                        own, he could not have told clearly; but it was a moment for both of
                        healing, of impulsive return, the one to the other, unspoken penitence on
                        her side, a hidden self-blame on his. She clung to him fiercely, courting
                        the pressure of his arms, the warm contact of his youth; while, in his inner
                        mind, he renounced with energy the temptress Chloe and all her works, vowing
                        to himself that he would give Daphne no cause, no pretext even, for
                        jealousy, and would bear it patiently if she were still unjust and
                        tormenting.
                    “Where have you been all day?” said Daphne at last, disengaging herself, and
                        brushing the tears away from her eyes—a little angrily, as though she were
                        ashamed of them.
                    “I told you this morning. I had a run with the Stoneshire hounds.”
                    “Whom did you meet there?”
                    “Oh, various old acquaintances. Nobody amusing.” He gave two or three names,
                        his conscience pricking him. Somehow, at that moment, it seemed impossible to mention Chloe
                        Fairmile.
                    About eleven o'clock that night, Daphne and Lady Barnes having just gone
                        upstairs, Roger and a local Colonel of Volunteers who was dining and
                        spending the night at Heston, were in the smoking-room. Colonel Williams had
                        come over to discuss Volunteer prospects in the neighbourhood, and had been
                        delighted to find in the grandson of his old friend Oliver Trescoe—a young
                        fellow whom he and others had too readily regarded as given over to luxury
                        and soft living—signs of the old public spirit, the traditional manliness of
                        the family. The two men were talking with great cordiality, when the sound
                        of a dogcart driving up to the front door disturbed them.
                    “Who on earth?—at this time of night?” said Roger.
                    The butler, entering with fresh cigarettes, explained that Miss Farmer had
                        only just returned, having missed an earlier train.
                    “Well, I hope to goodness she won't go and disturb Miss Beatty,” grumbled
                        Roger; and then, half to himself, half to his companion, as the butler
                        departed—“I don't believe she missed her train; she's one of the cool
                        sort—does jolly well what she likes! I say, Colonel, do you like ‘lady
                        helps’? I don't!”
                    
                    Half an hour later, Roger, having said good-night to his guest ten minutes
                        before, was mounting the stairs on his own way to bed, when he heard in the
                        distance the sound of a closing door and the rustle of a woman's dress.
                    Nurse Farmer, he supposed, who had been gossiping with Daphne. His face, as
                        the candle shone upon it, expressed annoyance. Vaguely, he resented the kind
                        of intimacy which had grown up lately between Daphne and her child's nurse.
                        She was not the kind of person to make a friend of; she bullied Beatty; and
                        she must be got rid of.
                    Yet when he entered his wife's room, everything was dark, and Daphne was
                        apparently sound asleep. Her face was hidden from him; and he moved on
                        tiptoe so as not to disturb her. Evidently it was not she who had been
                        gossiping late. His mother, perhaps, with her maid.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER VIII
                    IN the course of that night Roger Barnes's fate was
                        decided, while he lay, happily sleeping, beside his wife. Daphne, as soon as
                        she heard his regular breathing, opened the eyes she had only pretended to
                        close, and lay staring into the shadows of the room, in which a night-light
                        was burning. Presently she got up softly, put on a dressing-gown, and went
                        to the fire, which she noiselessly replenished; then, drawing up a chair,
                        she sank back into it, her arms folded. The strengthening firelight showed
                        her small white face, amid the masses of her dark hair.
                    Her whole being was seething with passionate and revengeful thought. It was
                        as though with violent straining and wrenching the familiar links and
                        bulwarks of life were breaking down, and as if amid the wreck of them she
                        found herself looking at goblin faces beyond, growing gradually used to
                        them, ceasing to be startled by them, finding in them even a wild attraction
                        and invitation.
                    So Roger had lied to her. Instead of a casual ride, involving a meeting with
                        a few old acquaintances, as he had
                        represented to her, he had been engaged that day in an assignation with Mrs.
                        Fairmile, arranged beforehand, and carefully concealed from his wife. Miss
                        Farmer had seen them coming out of a wood together hand in hand! In the
                        public road, this!—not even so much respect for appearances as might have
                        dictated the most elementary reticence and decency. The case was so clear
                        that it sickened her; she shivered with cold and nausea as she lay there by
                        the now glowing fire which yet gave her no physical comfort. Probably in the
                        past their relation had gone much farther than Roger had ever confessed to
                        his wife. Mrs. Fairmile was a woman who would stick at nothing. And if
                        Daphne were not already betrayed, she could no longer protect herself. The
                        issue was certain. Such women as Chloe Fairmile are not to be baulked of
                        what they desire. Good women cannot fight them on equal terms. And as to any
                        attempt to keep the affections of a husband who could behave in such a way
                        to the wife who had given him her youth, herself, and all the resources and
                        facilities of life, Daphne's whole being stiffened into mingled anguish and
                        scorn as she renounced the contest. Knowing himself the traitor that he was,
                        he could yet hold her, kiss her, murmur tender things to her, allow her to
                        cry upon
                         his breast, to stammer repentance and
                        humbleness. Cowardly! False! Treacherous! She flung out her hands, rigid,
                        before her in the darkness, as though for ever putting him away.
                    Anguish? Yes!—but not of such torturing quality as she could have felt a
                        year, six months even, before this date. She was astonished that she could
                        bear her life, that she could sit there in the night stillness, motionless,
                        holding her breath even, while Roger slept there in the shadowed bed. Had
                        this thing happened to her before their arrival at Heston, she must have
                        fallen upon Roger in mad grief and passion, ready to kill him or herself;
                        must at least have poured out torrents of useless words and tears. She could
                        not have sat dumb like this; in misery, but quite able to think things out,
                        to envisage all the dark possibilities of the future. And not only the
                        future. By a perfectly logical diversion her thoughts presently went racing
                        to the past. There was, so to speak, a suspension of the immediate crisis,
                        while she listened to her own mind—while she watched her own years go
                        by.
                    It was but rarely that Daphne let her mind run on her own origins. But on
                        this winter night, as she sat motionless by the fire, she became conscious
                        of a sudden detachment from her most recent self and life—a sudden
                            violent turning against both—which
                        naturally threw her back on the past, on some reflection upon what she had
                        made of herself, by way of guide to what she might still make of herself, if
                        she struck boldly, now, while there was yet time, for her own freedom and
                        development.
                    As to her parents, she never confessed, even to herself, that she owed them
                        anything, except, of course, the mere crude wealth that her father had left
                        her. Otherwise she was vaguely ashamed of them both. And yet!—in her most
                        vital qualities, her love of sensational effect, her scorn of half-measures,
                        her quick, relentless imagination, her increasing ostentation and
                        extravagance, she was the true child of the boastful mercurial Irishman who
                        had married her Spanish mother as part of a trade bargain, on a chance visit
                        to Buenos Ayres. For twenty years Daniel Floyd had leased and exploited, had
                        ravaged and destroyed, great tracts of primeval forest in the northern
                        regions of the Prairie State, leaving behind him a ruined earth and an
                        impoverished community, but building up the while a colossal fortune. He had
                        learnt the arts of municipal “bossing” in one of the minor towns of
                        Illinois, and had then migrated to Chicago, where for years he was the life
                        and soul of all the bolder and more adventurous corruption of the city. A
                        jovial, handsome fellow!—with an actor's face, a bright eye, and a slippery hand. Daphne had a
                        vivid, and, on the whole, affectionate, remembrance of her father, of whom,
                        however, she seldom spoke. The thought of her mother, on the other hand, was
                        always unwelcome. It brought back recollections of storm and tempest; of
                        wild laughter, and still wilder tears; of gorgeous dresses, small feet, and
                        jewelled fingers.
                    No; her parents had but small place in that dramatic autobiography that
                        Daphne was now constructing for herself. She was not their daughter in any
                        but the physical sense; she was the daughter of her own works and
                        efforts.
                    She leant forward to the fire, her face propped in her hands, going back in
                        thought to her father's death, when she was fifteen; to her three years of
                        cloying convent life, and her escape from it, as well as from the intriguing
                        relations who would have kept her there; to the clever lawyer who had helped
                        to put her in possession of her fortune, and the huge sums she had paid him
                        for his services; to her search for education, her hungry determination to
                        rise in the world, the friends she had made at college, in New York,
                        Philadelphia, Washington. She had been influenced by one milieu after another; she had worked hard, now
                        at music, now at philosophy; had dabbled in girls' clubs, and gone to Socialist meetings, and had been all through
                        driven on by the gadfly of an ever-increasing ambition.
                    Ambition for what! She looked back on this early life with a bitter contempt.
                        What had it all come to? Marriage with Roger Barnes!—a hasty passion of
                        which she was already ashamed, for a man who was already false to her.
                    What had made her marry him? She did not mince matters with herself in her
                        reply. She had married him, influenced by a sudden gust of physical
                        inclination—by that glamour, too, under which she had seen him in
                        Washington, a glamour of youth and novelty. If she had seen him first in his
                        natural environment she would have been on her guard; she would have
                        realised what it meant to marry a man who could help her own ideals and
                        ambitions so little. And what, really, had their married life brought her?
                        Had she ever been sure of Roger?—had she ever been able to feel
                        proud of him, in the company of really distinguished men?—had she not been
                        conscious, again and again, when in London, or Paris, or Berlin, that he was
                        her inferior, that he spoiled her social and intellectual chances? And his
                        tone towards women had always been a low one; no great harm in it, perhaps;
                        but it had often wounded and disgusted her.
                    
                    And then—for climax!—his concealment of the early love affair with Chloe
                        Fairmile; his weakness and folly in letting her regain her hold upon him;
                        his behaviour at the Brendon ball, the gossip, which, as Agnes Farmer
                        declared, was all over the neighbourhood, ending in the last baseness—the
                        assignation, the lies, the hypocrisy of the afternoon!
                    Enough!—more than enough! What did she care what the English world thought of
                        her? She would free and right herself in her own way, and they might hold up
                        what hands they pleased. A passion of wounded vanity, of disappointed
                        self-love, swept through her. She had looked forward to the English country
                        life; she had meant to play a great part in it. But three months had been
                        enough to show her the kind of thing—the hopeless narrowness and
                        Philistinism of these English backwaters. What did these small squires and
                        country clergy know of the real world, the world that mattered to
                            her, where people had free minds and progressive ideas? Her
                        resentment of the milieu in which Roger
                        expected her to live subtly swelled and strengthened her wrath against
                        himself; it made the soil from which sprang a sudden growth of angry
                        will—violent and destructive. There was in her little or none of that
                        affinity with a traditional, a parent England, which is present in so many
                            Americans, which emerges in them like
                        buried land from the waters. On the contrary, the pressure of race and blood
                        in her was not towards, but against; not friendly, but hostile. The nearer
                        she came to the English life, the more certain forces in her, deeply
                        infused, rose up and made their protest. The Celtic and Latin strains that
                        were mingled in her, their natural sympathies and repulsions, which had been
                        indistinct in the girl, overlaid by the deposits of the current American
                        world, were becoming dominant in the woman.
                    Well, thank goodness, modern life is not as the old! There are ways out.
                    Midnight had just struck. The night was gusty, the north-west wind made
                        fierce attacks on the square, comfortable house. Daphne rose slowly; she
                        moved noiselessly across the floor; she stood with her arms behind her,
                        looking down at the sleeping Roger. Then a thought struck her; she reached
                        out a hand to the new number of an American Quarterly which lay, with the
                        paper knife in it, on a table beside the bed. She had ordered it in a mood
                        of jealous annoyance because of a few pages of art criticism in it by Mrs.
                        Fairmile, which impertinently professed to know more about the Vitali
                        Signorelli than its present owner did; but she remembered also an article on
                        “The Future for Women,” which had seemed
                        to her a fine, progressive thing. She turned the pages noiselessly—her eyes
                        now on the unconscious Roger—now on the book.
                    
                            “All forms of contract—in business, education, religion, or
                                law—suffer from the weakness and blindness of the persons making
                                them—the marriage contract as much as any other. The dictates of
                                humanity and commonsense alike show that the latter and most
                                important contract should no more be perpetual than any of the
                                others.”
                         Again:— 
                            “Any covenant between human beings that fails to produce or promote
                                human happiness, cannot in the nature of things be of any force or
                                authority; it is not only a right but a duty to abolish it.”
                         And a little further:— 
                            “Womanhood is the great fact of woman's life. Wifehood and motherhood
                                are but incidental relations.”
                        
                    Daphne put down the book. In the dim light, the tension of her slender
                        figure, her frowning brow, her locked arms and hands, made of her a
                        threatening Fate hovering darkly above the man in his deep, defenceless
                        sleep.
                    She was miserable, consumed with jealous
                        anger. But the temptation of a new licence—a lawless law—was in her veins.
                        Have women been trampled on, insulted, enslaved?—in America, at least, they
                        may now stand on their feet. No need to cringe any more to the insolence and
                        cruelty of men. A woman's life may be soiled and broken; but in the great
                        human workshop of America it can be repaired. She remembered that in the
                        majority of American divorces it is the woman who applies for relief. And
                        why not? The average woman, when she marries, knows much less of life and
                        the world than the average man. She is more likely—poor soul!—to make
                        mistakes.
                    She drew closer to the bed. All round her glimmered the furniture and
                        appointments of a costly room—the silver and tortoise-shell on the
                        dressing-table, the long mirrors lining the farther wall, the silk hangings
                        of the bed. Luxury, as light and soft as skill and money could make it—the
                        room breathed it; and in the midst stood the young creature who had designed
                        it, the will within her hardening rapidly to an irrevocable purpose.
                    Yes, she had made a mistake! But she would retrieve it. She would free
                        herself. She would no longer put up with Roger, with his neglect and
                        deceit—his disagreeable and ungrateful mother—his immoral friends—and this
                        dull, soul-deadening English life.
                    
                    Roger moved and murmured. She retreated a little, still looking at him
                        fixedly. Was it the child's name? Perhaps. He dreamt interminably, and very
                        often of Beatty. But it did not move her. Beatty, of course, was
                            her child. Every child belongs to the mother in a far
                        profounder sense than to the father. And he, too, would be free; he would
                        naturally marry again.
                    Case after case of divorce ran through her mind as she stood there; the
                        persons and circumstances all well known to her. Other stories also, not
                        personally within her ken; the famous scandals of the time, much discussed
                        throughout American society. Her wits cleared and steeled. She began to see
                        the course that she must follow.
                    It would all depend upon the lawyers; and a good deal—she faced it—upon
                        money. All sorts of technical phrases, vaguely remembered, ran through her
                        mind. She would have to recover her American citizenship—she and the child.
                        A domicile of six months in South Dakota, or in Wyoming—a year in
                        Philadelphia—she began to recall information derived of old from Madeleine
                        Verrier, who had, of course, been forced to consider all these things, and
                        to weigh alternatives. Advice, therefore, must be asked of her at once—and
                        sympathy.
                    
                    Suddenly, on her brooding, there broke a wave of excitement. Life, instead of
                        being closed, as in a sense it is, for every married woman, was in a moment
                        open and vague again; the doors flung wide to flaming heavens. An
                        intoxication of recovered youth and freedom possessed her. The sleeping
                        Roger represented things intolerable and outworn. Why should a woman of her
                        gifts, of her opportunities, be chained for life to this commonplace man,
                        now that her passion was over?—now that she knew him for what he was, weak,
                        feather-brained, and vicious? She looked at him with a kind of exaltation,
                        spurning him from her path.
                    But the immediate future!—the practical steps! What kind of evidence would
                        she want?—what kind of witnesses? Something more, no doubt, of both than she
                        had already. She must wait—temporise—do nothing rashly. If it was for
                        Roger's good as well as her own that they should be free of each other—and
                        she was fast persuading herself of this—she must, for both their sakes,
                        manage the hateful operation without bungling.
                    What was the alternative? She seemed to ask it of Roger, as she stood looking
                        down upon him. Patience?—with a man who could never sympathise with her
                        intellectually or artistically?—the relations of married life with a husband who made assignations with an old
                        love, under the eyes of the whole neighbourhood?—the narrowing, cramping
                        influences of English provincial society? No! she was born for other and
                        greater things, and she would grasp them. “My first duty is to myself—to my
                        own development! We have absolutely no right to sacrifice
                        ourselves—as women have been taught to do for thousands of years.”
                    Bewildered by the rhetoric of her own thoughts, Daphne returned to her seat
                        by the fire, and sat there wildly dreaming, till once more recalled to
                        practical possibilities by the passage of the hours on the clock above
                        her.
                    Miss Farmer? Everything, it seemed, depended on her. But Daphne had no doubts
                        of her. Poor girl!—with her poverty-stricken home, her drunken father lately
                        dismissed from his post, and her evident inclination towards this clever
                        young fellow now employed in the house—Daphne rejoiced to think of what
                        money could do, in this case at least; of the reward that should be waiting
                        for the girl's devotion when the moment came; of the gifts already made, and
                        the gratitude already evoked. No; she could be trusted; she had every reason
                        to be true.
                    Some fitful sleep came to her at last in the morning hours. But when Roger awoke, she was half-way through her
                        dressing; and when he first saw her, he noticed nothing except that she was
                        paler than usual, and confessed to a broken night.
                    But as the day wore on it became plain to everybody at Heston—to Roger first
                        and foremost—that something was much amiss. Daphne would not leave her
                        sitting-room and her sofa; she complained of headache and over-fatigue;
                        would have nothing to say to the men at work on the new decoration of the
                        east wing of the house, who were clamouring for directions; and would admit
                        nobody but Miss Farmer and her maid. Roger forced his way in once, only to
                        be vanquished by the traditional weapons of weakness, pallor, and silence.
                        Her face contracted and quivered as his step approached her; it was as
                        though he trampled upon her; and he left her, awkwardly, on tiptoe, feeling
                        himself as intrusively brutal as she clearly meant him to feel.
                    What on earth was the matter? Some new grievance against him, he supposed.
                        After the softening, the quasi-reconciliation of the day before, his chagrin
                        and disappointment were great. Impossible she should know anything of his
                        ride with Chloe! There was not a soul in that wood; and the place was twenty
                            miles from Heston. Again he felt the
                        impulse to blurt it all out to her; but was simply repelled and intimidated
                        by this porcupine mood in which she had wrapped herself. Better wait at
                        least till she was a little more normal again. He went off disconsolately to
                        a day's shooting.
                    Meanwhile, his own particular worry was sharp enough. Chloe had taken
                        advantage of their casual tête-à-tête, as
                        she had done before on several occasions, to claim something of the old
                        relation, instead of accepting the new, like a decent woman; and in the face
                        of the temptation offered him he had shown a weakness of which not only his
                        conscience but his pride was ashamed. He realised perfectly that she had
                        been trying during the whole autumn to recover her former hold on him, and
                        he also saw clearly and bitterly that he was not strong enough to resist
                        her, should he continue to be thrown with her; and not clever enough to
                        baffle her, if her will were really set on recapturing him. He was afraid of
                        her, and afraid of himself.
                    What, then, must he do? As he tramped about the wet fields and plantations
                        with a keeper and a few beaters after some scattered pheasants, he was
                        really, poor fellow! arguing out the riddle of his life. What would Herbert
                        French advise him to do?—supposing he
                        could put the question plainly to him, which of course was not possible. He
                        meant honestly and sincerely to keep straight; to do his duty by Daphne and
                        the child. But he was no plaster saint, and he could not afford to give
                        Chloe Fairmile too many opportunities. To break at once, to carry off Daphne
                        and leave Heston, at least for a time—that was the obviously prudent and
                        reasonable course. But in her present mood it was of no use for him to
                        propose it, tired as she seemed to be of Heston, and disappointed in the
                        neighbours: any plan brought forward by him was doomed beforehand. Well
                        then, let him go himself; he had been so unhappy during the preceding weeks
                        it would be a jolly relief to turn his back on Heston for a time.
                    But as soon as he had taken his departure, Chloe perhaps would take hers; and
                        if so, Daphne's jealousy would be worse than ever. Whatever deserts he might
                        place between himself and Mrs. Fairmile, Daphne would imagine them
                        together.
                    Meanwhile, there was that Lilliput bond, that small, chafing entanglement,
                        which Chloe had flung round him in her persistence about the letters. There
                        was, no doubt, a horrid scandal brewing about Mrs. Weightman, Chloe's old
                        friend—a friend of his own, too, in former days. Through Chloe's
                        unpardonable 
                            indiscre-
                            indiscretions
                         tions he knew a great deal more
                        about this lady's affairs than he had ever wished to know. And he well
                        remembered the letter in question; a letter on which the political life or
                        death of one of England's most famous men might easily turn, supposing it
                        got out. But the letter was safe enough; not the least likely to come into
                        dangerous hands, in spite of Chloe's absurd hypotheses. It was somewhere, no
                        doubt, among the boxes in the locked room; and who could possibly get hold
                        of it? At the same time he realised that as long as he had not found and
                        returned it she would still have a certain claim upon him, a certain right
                        to harass him with inquiries and confidential interviews, which, as a man of
                        honour, he could not altogether deny.
                    A pheasant got up across a ploughed field where in the mild season the young
                        corn was already green. Roger shot, and missed; the bird floated gaily down
                        the wind, and the head keeper, in disgust, muttered bad language to the
                        underling beside him.
                    But after that Barnes was twice as cheerful as before. He whistled as he
                        walked; his shooting recovered; and by the time the dark fell, keepers and
                        beaters were once more his friends.
                    The fact was that just as he missed the pheasant he had taken his resolution,
                        and seen his way. He would have another
                        determined hunt for that letter; he would also find and destroy his own
                        letters to Chloe—those she had returned to him—which must certainly never
                        fall into Daphne's hands; and then he would go away to London or the North,
                        to some place whence he could write both to Chloe Fairmile and to his wife.
                        Women like Daphne were too quick; they could get out a dozen words to your
                        one; but give a man time, and he could express himself. And, therewith, a
                        great tenderness and compunction in this man's heart, and a steady
                        determination to put things right. For was not Daphne Beatty's mother? and
                        was he not in truth very fond of her, if only she would let him be?
                    Now then for the hunt. As he had never destroyed the letters, they must
                        exist; but, in the name of mischief, where? He seemed to remember thrusting
                        his own letters to Chloe into a desk of his schoolboy days which used to
                        stand in his London sitting-room. Very likely some of hers might be there
                        too. But the thought of his own had by now become a much greater anxiety to
                        him than the wish to placate Chloe. For he was most uncomfortably aware that
                        his correspondence with Chloe during their short engagement had been of a
                        very different degree of fervour from that shown in the letters to Daphne
                        under similar circumstances. As for the
                        indelicacy and folly of leaving such documents to chance, he cursed it
                        sorely.
                    How to look? He pondered it. He did not even know which attic it was that had
                        been reserved at the time of the letting of Heston, and now held some of the
                        old London furniture and papers. Well, he must manage it, “burgle” his own
                        house, if necessary. What an absurd situation! Should he consult his mother?
                        No; better not.
                    That evening General Hobson was expected for a couple of nights. On going up
                        to dress for dinner, Roger discovered that he had been banished to a room on
                        the farther side of the house, where his servant was now putting out his
                        clothes. He turned very white, and went straight to his wife.
                    Daphne was on the sofa as before, and received him in silence.
                    “What's the meaning of this, Daphne?” The tone was quiet, but the breathing
                        quick.
                    She looked at him—bracing herself.
                    “I must be alone! I had no sleep last night.”
                    “You had neuralgia?”
                    “I don't know—I had no sleep. I must be alone.”
                    His eyes and hers met.
                    
                    “For to-night, then,” he said briefly. “I don't know what's the matter with
                        you, Daphne, and I suppose it's no use to ask you. I thought,
                        yesterday—but—however, there's no time to talk now. Are you coming down to
                        dinner?”
                    “Not to dinner. I will come down for an hour afterwards.”
                    He went away, and before he had reached his own room, and while the heat of
                        his sudden passion still possessed him, it occurred to him that Daphne's
                        behaviour might after all prove a godsend. That night he would make his
                        search, with no risk of disturbing his wife.
                    The dinner in the newly decorated dining-room went heavily. Lady Barnes had
                        grown of late more and more anxious and depressed. She had long ceased to
                        assert herself in Daphne's presence, and one saw her as the British matron
                        in adversity, buffeted by forces she did not understand; or as some minor
                        despot snuffed out by a stronger.
                    The General, who had only arrived just in time to dress, inquired in
                        astonishment for Daphne, and was told by Roger that his wife was not well,
                        but would come down for a little while after dinner. In presence of the new
                        splendours of Heston, the General had—in Roger's company—very little to say.
                        He made the vague remark that the
                        dining-room was “very fine,” but he should not have known it again. Where
                        was the portrait of Edward, and the full-length of Edward's father by Sir
                        Francis Grant? Lady Barnes drew herself up, and said nothing. Roger hastily
                        replied that he believed they were now in the passage leading to the
                        billiard-room.
                    “What! that dark corner!” cried the General, looking with both distaste and
                        hostility at the famous Signorelli—a full-length nude St. Sebastian, bound
                        and pierced—which had replaced them on the dining-room wall. Who on earth
                        ever saw such a picture in a dining-room? Roger must be a fool to allow
                        it!
                    Afterwards, the General and Lady Barnes wandered through the transformed
                        house, in general agreement as to the ugliness and extravagance of almost
                        everything that had been done—an agreement that was as balm to the harassed
                        spirits of the lady.
                    “What have they spent?” asked the General, under his breath, as they returned
                        to the drawing-room—“thousands and thousands, I should think! And there was
                        no need for them to spend a penny. It is a sinful waste, and no one should
                        waste money in these days—there are too many unemployed!” He drew up his
                        spare person, with a terrier-like shake of
                        the head and shoulders, as of one repudiating Mammon and all its works.
                    “Daphne has simply no idea of the value of money!” Lady Barnes complained,
                        also under her breath. They were passing along one of the side corridors of
                        the house, and there was no one in sight. But Roger's mother was evidently
                        uneasy, as though Daphne might at any moment spring from the floor, or
                        emerge from the walls. The General was really sorry for her.
                    “It's like all the rest of them—Americans, I mean,” he declared; “they
                        haven't our sense of responsibility. I saw plenty of that in the
                        States.”
                    Lady Barnes acquiesced. She was always soothed by the General's unfaltering
                        views of British superiority.
                    They found Daphne in the drawing-room—a ghostly Daphne, in white, and covered
                        with diamonds. She made a little perfunctory conversation with them, avoided
                        all mention of the house, and presently, complaining again of headache, went
                        back to her room after barely an hour downstairs.
                    The General whistled to himself, as he also retired to bed, after another and
                        more private conversation with Lady Barnes, and half an hour's billiards
                        with a very absent-minded host. By Jove, Laura wanted a change! He rejoiced
                        that he was to escort her on the morrow to
                        the London house of some cheerful and hospitable relations. Dollars, it
                        seemed, were not everything, and he wished to heaven that Roger had been
                        content to marry some plain English girl, with, say, a couple of thousand a
                        year. Even the frugal General did not see how it could have been done on
                        less. Roger no doubt had been a lazy, self-indulgent beggar. Yet he seemed a
                        good deal steadier, and more sensible than he used to be; in spite of his
                        wife, and the pouring out of dollars. And there was no doubt that he had
                        grown perceptibly older. The General felt a vague pang of regret, so rare
                        and so compelling had been the quality of Roger's early youth, measured at
                        least by physical standards.
                    The house sank into sleep and silence. Roger, before saying good-night to his
                        mother, had let fall a casual question as to the whereabouts of the room
                        which still contained the débris of the
                        London house. He must, he said, look up two or three things, some share
                        certificates of his father's, for instance, that he had been in want of for
                        some time. Lady Barnes directed him. At the end of the nursery wing, to the
                        right. But in the morning one of the housemaids would show him. Had she the
                        key? She produced it, thought no more of it, and went to bed.
                    
                    He waited in his room till after midnight, then took off his shoes, his pride
                        smarting, and emerged. There was one electric light burning in the hall
                        below. This gave enough glimmer on the broad open landing for him to grope
                        his way by, and he went noiselessly towards the staircase leading up to
                        Beatty's rooms. Once, just as he reached it, he thought he caught the faint
                        noise of low talking somewhere in the house, an indeterminate sound not to
                        be located. But when he paused to listen, it had ceased; and he supposed it
                        to be only a windy murmur of the night.
                    He gained the nursery wing. So far, of course, the way was perfectly
                        familiar. He rarely passed an evening without going to kiss Beatty in her
                        cot. Outside the door of the night-nursery he waited a moment to listen. Was
                        she snoozling among her blankets?—the darling! She still sucked her thumb,
                        sometimes, poor baby, to send her to sleep, and it was another reason for
                        discontent with Miss Farmer that she would make a misdemeanour of it.
                        Really, that woman got on his nerves!
                    Beyond the nursery he had no knowledge whatever of his own house. The attics
                        at Heston were large and rambling. He believed the servants were all in the
                        other wing, but was not sure; he could only hope that he might not stumble on some handmaiden's room by
                        mistake!
                    A door to the right, at the end of the passage. He tried the key. Thank
                        goodness! It turned without too much noise, and he found himself on the
                        threshold of a big lumber-room, his candle throwing lines of dusty light
                        across it. He closed the door, set down the light, and looked round him in
                        despair. The room was crowded with furniture, trunks, and boxes, in
                        considerable confusion. It looked as though the men employed to move them
                        had piled them there as they pleased; and Roger shrewdly suspected that his
                        mother, from whom, in spite of her square and businesslike appearance, his
                        own indolence was inherited, had shrunk till now from the task of disturbing
                        them.
                    He began to rummage a little. Papers belonging to his father—an endless
                        series of them; some in tin boxes marked with the names of various
                        companies, mining and other; some in leather cases, reminiscent of politics,
                        and labelled “Parliamentary” or “Local Government Board.” Trunks containing
                        Court suits, yeomanry uniforms, and the like; a medley of old account books,
                        photographs, worthless volumes, and broken ornaments: all the refuse that
                        our too complex life piles about us was represented in the chaos of the
                        room. Roger pulled and pushed as cautiously as he could, but making, inevitably, some noise in the
                        process. At last! He caught sight of some belongings of his own, and was
                        soon joyfully detaching the old Eton desk, of which he was in search, from a
                        pile of miscellaneous rubbish. In doing so, to his dismay, he upset a couple
                        of old cardboard boxes filled with letters, and they fell with some clatter.
                        He looked round instinctively at the door; but it was shut, and the house
                        was well built, the walls and ceilings reasonably sound-proof. The desk was
                        only latched—beastly carelessness, of course!—and inside it were three thick
                        piles of letters, and a few loose ones below. His own letters to Chloe;
                        and—by George!—the lost one!—among the others. He opened it eagerly, ran it
                        through. Yes, the very thing! What luck! He laid it carefully aside a moment
                        on a trunk near by, and sat with the other letters on his lap.
                    His fingers played with them. He almost determined to take them down
                        unopened, and burn them, as they were, in his own room; but in the end he
                        could not resist the temptation to look at them once more. He pulled off an
                        indiarubber band from the latest packet, and was soon deep in them, at first
                        half ashamed, half contemptuous. Calf love, of course! And he had been a
                        precious fool to write such things. Then, presently, the headlong passion of
                            them began to affect him, to set his
                        pulses swinging. He fell to wondering at his own bygone facility, his own
                        powers of expression. How did he ever write such a style! He, who could
                        hardly get through a note now without blots and labour. Self-pity grew upon
                        him, and self-admiration. By heaven! How could a woman treat a man—a man who
                        could write to her like this—as Chloe had treated him!
                    The old smart revived; or rather, the old indelible impressions of it left on
                        nerve and brain.
                    The letters lay on his knee. He sat brooding: his hands upon the packets, his
                        head bowed. One might have thought him a man overcome and dissolved by the
                        enervating memories of passion; but in truth, he was gradually and steadily
                        reacting against them; resuming, and this time finally, as far as Chloe
                        Fairmile was concerned, a man's mastery of himself. He thought of her
                        unkindness and cruelty—of the misery he had suffered—and now of the reckless
                        caprice with which, during the preceding weeks, she had tried to entangle
                        him afresh, with no respect for his married life, for his own or Daphne's
                        peace of mind.
                    He judged her, and therewith, himself. Looking back upon the four years since
                        Chloe Fairmile had thrown him over, it seemed to him that, in some ways, he
                        had made a good job of his life, and, in
                        others, a bad one. As to the money, that was neither here nor there. It had
                        been amusing to have so much of it; though of late Daphne's constant
                        reminders that the fortune was hers and not his, had been like grit in the
                        mouth. But he did not find that boundless wealth had made as much difference
                        to him as he had expected. On the other hand, he had been much happier with
                        Daphne than he had thought he should be, up to the time of their coming to
                        Heston. She wasn't easy to live with, and she had been often, before now,
                        ridiculously jealous; but you could not, apparently, live with a woman
                        without getting very fond of her—he couldn't—especially if she had given you
                        a child; and if Daphne had turned against him now, for a bit—well, he could
                        not swear to himself that he had been free from blame; and it perhaps served
                        him right for having gone out deliberately to the States to marry money—with
                        a wife thrown in—in that shabby sort of way.
                    But, now, to straighten out this coil; to shake himself finally free of
                        Chloe, and make Daphne happy again! He vowed to himself that he could and
                        would make her happy—just as she had been in their early days together. The
                        memory of her lying white and exhausted after child-birth, with the little
                        dark head beside her, came across him, and melted him; he thought of her with longing and
                        tenderness.
                    With a deep breath he raised himself on his seat; in the old Greek phrase,
                        “the gods breathed courage into his soul”; and as he stretched out an
                        indifferent hand towards Chloe's letters on the trunk, Roger Barnes had
                        perhaps reached the highest point of his moral history; he had become
                        conscious of himself as a moral being choosing good or evil; and he had
                        chosen good. It was not so much that his conscience accused him greatly with
                        regard to Chloe. For that his normal standards were not fine enough. It was
                        rather a kind of “serious call,” something akin to conversion, or that might
                        have been conversion, which befell him in this dusty room, amid the
                        night-silence.
                    As he took up Chloe's letters he did not notice that the door had quietly
                        opened behind him, and that a figure stood on the threshold.
                    A voice struck into the stillness.
                    “Roger!”
                    He turned with a movement that scattered all his own letters on the floor.
                        Daphne stood before him—but with the eyes of a mad woman. Her hand shook on
                        the handle of the door.
                    “What are you doing here?” She flung out the question like a blow.
                    
                    “Hallo, Daphne!—is that you?” He tried to laugh. “I'm only looking up some
                        old papers; no joke, in all this rubbish.” He pointed to it.
                    “What old papers?”
                    “Well, you needn't catechise me!” he said, nettled by her tone, “or not in
                        that way, at any rate. I couldn't sleep, and I came up here to look for
                        something I wanted. Why did you shut your door on me?”
                    He looked at her intently, his lips twitching a little. Daphne came
                        nearer.
                    “It must be something you want very badly—something you don't want other
                        people to see—something you're ashamed of!—or you wouldn't be searching for
                        it at this time of night.” She raised her eyes, still with the same strange
                        yet flaming quiet, from the littered floor to his face. Then suddenly
                        glancing again at the scattered papers—“That's your handwriting!—they're
                        your letters!—letters to Mrs. Fairmile!”
                    “Well, and what do you make of that?” cried Roger, half wroth, half inclined
                        to laugh. “If you want to know, they are the letters I wrote to Chloe
                        Fairmile; and I, like a careless beast, never destroyed them, and they were
                        stuffed away here. I have long meant to get at them and burn them, and as
                        you turned me out to-night—”
                    
                    “What is that letter in your hand?” exclaimed Daphne, interrupting him.
                    “Oh, that has nothing to do with you—or me—” he said, hastily making a
                        movement to put it in his coat pocket. But in a second, Daphne, with a cry,
                        had thrown herself upon him, to his intense amazement, wrestling with him,
                        in a wild excitement. And as she did so, a thin woman, with frightened eyes,
                        in a nurse's dress, came quickly into the room, as though Daphne's cry had
                        signalled to her. She was behind Roger, and he was not aware of her
                        approach.
                    “Daphne, don't be such a little fool!” he said indignantly, holding her off
                        with one hand, determined not to give her the letter.
                    Then, all in a moment—without, as it seemed to him, any but the mildest
                        defensive action on his part—Daphne stumbled and fell.
                    “Daphne!—I say!—”
                    He was stooping over her in great distress to lift her up, when he felt
                        himself vehemently put aside by a woman's hand.
                    “You ought to be ashamed of yourself, sir! Let me go to her.”
                    He turned in bewilderment. “Miss Farmer! What on earth are you doing
                        here?”
                    But in his astonishment he had given way to her, and he fell back pale and
                        frowning, while, without replying, she lifted Daphne— who had a cut on her forehead and was half
                        fainting—from the ground.
                    “Don't come near her, sir!” said the nurse, again warding him off. “You have
                        done quite enough. Let me attend to her.”
                    “You imagine that was my doing?” said Roger grimly. “Let me assure you it was
                        nothing of the kind. And pray, were you listening at the door?”
                    Miss Farmer vouchsafed no reply. She was half leading, half supporting
                        Daphne, who leant against her. As they neared the door, Roger, who had been
                        standing dumb again, started forward.
                    “Let me take her,” he said sternly. “Daphne!—send this woman away.”
                    But Daphne only shuddered, and putting out a shaking hand, she waved him from
                        her.
                    “You see in what a state she is!” cried Miss Farmer, with a withering look.
                        “If you must speak to her, put it off, sir, at least till tomorrow.”
                    Roger drew back. A strange sense of inexplicable disaster rushed upon him. He
                        sombrely watched them pass through the door and disappear.
                    Daphne reached her own room. As the door closed upon them she turned to her 
                            com-
                            companion
                         panion, holding out the
                        handkerchief stained with blood she had been pressing to her temple.
                    “You saw it all?” she said imperiously—“the whole thing?”
                    “All,” said Miss Farmer. “It's a mercy you're not more hurt.”
                    Daphne gave a hysterical laugh.
                    “It'll just do—I think it'll just do! But you'll have to make a good deal out
                        of it.”
                    And sinking down by the fire, she burst into a passion of wild tears.
                    The nurse brought her sal volatile, and washed the small cut above her
                        eyebrow.
                    “It was lucky we heard him,” she said triumphantly. “I guessed at once he
                        must be looking for something—I knew that room was full of papers.”
                    A knock at the door startled them.
                    “Never mind.” The nurse hurried across the room. “It's locked.”
                    “How is my wife?” said Roger's strong and, as it seemed, threatening voice
                        outside.
                    “She'll be all right, sir, I hope, if you'll leave her to rest. But I won't
                        answer for the consequences if she's disturbed any more.”
                    There was a pause, as though of hesitation. Then Roger's steps receded.
                    Daphne pushed her hair back from her face, and sat staring into the fire.
                        Everything was decided now. Yet she had rushed 
                            up-
                            upstairs
                         stairs on Miss Farmer's
                        information with no definite purpose. She only knew that—once again—Roger
                        was hiding something from her—doing something secret and disgraceful—and she
                        suddenly resolved to surprise and confront him. With a mind still vaguely
                        running on the legal aspects of what she meant to do, she had bade the nurse
                        follow her. The rest had been half spontaneous, half acting. It had struck
                        her imagination midway how the incident could be turned—and used.
                    She was triumphant; but from sheer excitement she wept and sobbed through the
                        greater part of the night.
                
            
            
                PART III
                
                    
                        “La vie est un orage, soit. Nous sommes orage et convulsion nous-mêmes.
                            Laissons nous aller à cette loi qui emporte tout dans l'abîme, et il n'y
                            a plus de société, plus d'humanité, plus rien.”
                    
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER IX
                    IT was a cheerless February day, dark and slaty overhead,
                        dusty below. In the East End streets paper and straw, children's curls,
                        girls' pinafores and women's skirts were driven back and forward by a bitter
                        wind; there was an ugly light on ugly houses, with none of that kind
                        trickery of mist or smoke which can lend some grace on normal days even to
                        Commercial Street, or to the network of lanes north of the Bethnal Green
                        Road. The pitiless wind swept the streets—swept the children and the
                        grown-ups out of them into the houses, or any available shelter; and in the
                        dark and chilly emptiness of the side roads one might listen in fancy for
                        the stealthy returning steps of spirits crueller than Cold, more tyrannous
                        than Poverty, coming to seize upon their own.
                    In one of these side streets stood a house larger than its neighbours, in a
                        bit of front garden, with some decrepit rust-bitten railings between it and
                        the road. It was an old dwelling overtaken by the flood of tenement houses,
                        which spread north, south, east, and west of it. Its walls were no less grimy than its neighbours'; but its windows
                        were outlined in cheerful white paint, firelight sparkled through its
                        unshuttered panes, and a bright green door with a brass knocker completed
                        its pleasant air. There were always children outside the Vicarage railings
                        on winter evenings, held there by the spell of the green door and the
                        firelight.
                    Inside the firelit room to the left of the front pathway, two men were
                        standing—one of whom had just entered the house.
                    “My dear Penrose!—how very good of you to come. I know how frightfully busy
                        you are.”
                    The man addressed put down his hat and stick, and hastily smoothed back some
                        tumbling black hair which interfered with spectacled eyes already hampered
                        by short sight. He was a tall, lank, powerful fellow; anyone acquainted with
                        the West-country would have known him for one of the swarthy, grey-eyed
                        Cornish stock.
                    “I am pretty busy—but your tale, Herbert, was a startler. If I can help
                        you—or Barnes—command me. He is coming this afternoon?”
                    Herbert French pointed his visitor to a chair.
                    “Of course. And another man—whom I met casually, in Pall Mall this
                        morning—and had half an hour's talk with—an American naval officer—an old acquaintance of
                        Elsie's—Captain Boyson—will join us also. I met him at Harvard before our
                        wedding, and liked him. He has just come over with his sister for a short
                        holiday, and I ran across him.”
                    “Is there any particular point in his joining us?”
                    Herbert French expounded. Boyson had been an old acquaintance of Mrs. Roger
                        Barnes' before her marriage. He knew a good deal about the Barnes
                        story—“feels, so I gathered, very strongly about it, and on the man's side;
                        and when I told him that Roger had just arrived and was coming to take
                        counsel with you and me this afternoon, he suddenly asked if he might come,
                        too. I was rather taken aback. I told him that we were going, of course, to
                        consider the case entirely from the English point of view. He still said,
                        ‘Let me come; I may be of use to you.’ So I could only reply it must rest
                        with Roger. They'll show him first into the dining-room.”
                    Penrose nodded. “All right, as long as he doesn't mind his national toes
                        trampled upon. So these are your new quarters, old fellow?”
                    His eyes travelled round the small book-lined room, with its shelves of
                        poetry, history, and theology; its parish litter; its settle by the fire, on
                        which lay a doll and a child's picture-
                        book; back to the figure of the new vicar, who stood, pipe in hand, before
                        the hearth, clad in a shabby serge suit, his collar alone betraying him.
                        French's white hair showed even whiter than of old above the delicately
                        blanched face; from his natural slenderness and smallness the East End and
                        its life had by now stripped every superfluous ounce; yet, ethereal as his
                        aspect was, not one element of the Meredithian trilogy—“flesh,” “blood,” or
                        “spirit”—was lacking in it.
                    “Yes, we've settled in,” he said quietly, as Penrose took stock.
                    “And you like it?”
                    “We do.”
                    The phrase was brief; nor did it seem to be going to lead to anything more
                        expansive. Penrose smiled.
                    “Well, now”—he bent forward, with a professional change of tone—“before he
                        arrives, where precisely is this unhappy business? I gather, by the way,
                        that Barnes has got practically all his legal advice from the other side,
                        though the solicitors here have been co-operating?”
                    French nodded. “I am still rather vague myself. Roger only arrived from New
                        York the day before yesterday. His uncle, General Hobson, died a few weeks
                        ago, and Roger came rushing home, as I understand, to see if he could make any ready money out of his
                        inheritance. Money, in fact, seems to be his chief thought.”
                    “Money? What for? Mrs. Barnes's suit was surely settled long ago?”
                    “Oh, yes—months ago. She got her decree and the custody of the child in
                        July.”
                    “Remind me of the details. Barnes refused to plead?”
                    “Certainly. By the advice of the lawyers on both sides, he refused, as an
                        Englishman, to acknowledge the jurisdiction of the court.”
                    “But he did what he could to stop the thing?”
                    “Of course. He rushed out after his wife as soon as he could trace where she
                        had gone; and he made the most desperate attempts to alter her purpose. His
                        letters, as far as I could make them out, were heart-rending. I very nearly
                        went over to try and help him, but it was impossible to leave my work. Mrs.
                        Barnes refused to see him. She was already at Sioux Falls, and had begun the
                        residence necessary to bring her within the jurisdiction of the South Dakota
                        Court. Roger, however, forced one or two interviews with her—most painful
                        scenes!—but found her quite immovable. At the same time she was much annoyed
                        and excited by the legal line that he was advised to take; and there was a
                        moment when she tried to bribe him to
                        accept the divorce and submit to the American court.”
                    “To bribe him! With money?”
                    “No; with the child. Beatty at first was hidden away, and Roger could find no
                        traces of her. But for a few weeks she was sent to stay with a Mrs. Verrier
                        at Philadelphia, and Roger was allowed to see her, while Mrs. Barnes
                        negotiated. It was a frightful dilemma! If he submitted, Mrs. Barnes
                        promised that Beatty should go to him for two months every year; if not, and
                        she obtained her decree, and the custody of the child, as she was quite
                        confident of doing, he should never—as far as she could secure it—see Beatty
                        again. He, too, foresaw that she would win her suit; he was sorely tempted;
                        but he stood firm. Then, before he could make up his mind what to do as to
                        the child, the suit came on, Mrs. Barnes got her decree, and the custody of
                        the little girl.”
                    “On the ground of ‘cruelty,’ I understand, and ‘indignities’?”
                    French nodded. His thin cheek flushed.
                    “And by the help of evidence that any liar could supply!”
                    “Who were her witnesses?”
                    “Beatty's nurse—one Agnes Farmer—and a young fellow who had been employed on
                        the decorative work at Heston. There were 
                            rela-
                            relations
                         tions between these two, and
                        Roger tells me they have married lately, on a partnership bought by Mrs.
                        Barnes. While the work was going on at Heston the young man used to put up
                        at an inn in the country town, and talk scandal at the bar.”
                    “Then there was some local scandal—on the subject of Barnes and Mrs.
                        Fairmile?”
                    “Possibly. Scandal pour rire! Not a soul
                        believed that there was anything more in it than mischief on the woman's
                        side, and a kind of incapacity for dealing with a woman as she deserved, on
                        the man's. Mrs. Fairmile has been an intrigante from her cradle. Barnes was at one time deeply in
                        love with her. His wife became jealous of her after the marriage, and threw
                        them together, by way of getting at the truth, and he shilly-shallied with
                        the situation, instead of putting a prompt end to it, as of course he ought
                        to have done. He was honestly fond of his wife the whole time, and devoted
                        to his home and his child.”
                    “Well, she didn't plead, you say, anything more than ‘cruelty’ and
                        ‘indignities.’ The scandal, such as it was, was no doubt part of the
                        ‘cruelty’?”
                    French assented.
                    “And you suspect that money played a great part in the whole
                        transaction?”
                    “I don't suspect—the evidence goes a long way beyond that. Mrs. Barnes bought the show! I
                        am told there are a thousand ways of doing it.”
                    Penrose smoked and pondered.
                    “Well, then—what happened? I imagine that by this time Barnes had not much
                        affection left for his wife?”
                    “I don't know,” said French, hesitating. “I believe the whole thing was a
                        great blow to him. He was never passionately in love with her, but he was
                        very fond of her in his own way—increasingly fond of her—up to that
                        miserable autumn at Heston. However, after the decree, his one thought was
                        for Beatty. His whole soul has been wrapped up in that child from the first
                        moment she was put into his arms. When he first realised that his wife meant
                        to take her from him, Boyson tells me that he seemed to lose his head. He
                        was like a person unnerved and bewildered, not knowing how to act or where
                        to turn. First of all, he brought an action—a writ of habeas corpus, I think—to recover his daughter,
                        as an English subject. But the fact was he had put it off too long—”
                    “Naturally,” said Penrose, with a shrug. “Not much hope for him—after the
                        decree.”
                    “So he discovered, poor old fellow! The action was, of course, obstructed and
                        delayed in every way, by the power of Mrs. Barnes's millions behind the scenes. His lawyers told him
                        plainly from the beginning that he had precious little chance. And presently
                        he found himself the object of a press campaign in some of the yellow
                        papers—all of it paid for and engineered by his wife. He was held up as the
                        brutal fortune-hunting Englishman, who had beguiled an American heiress to
                        marry him, had carried her off to England to live upon her money, had then
                        insulted her by scandalous flirtations with a lady to whom he had formerly
                        been engaged, had shown her constant rudeness and unkindness, and had
                        finally, in the course of a quarrel, knocked her down, inflicting shock and
                        injury from which she had suffered ever since. Mrs. Barnes had happily freed
                        herself from him, but he was now trying to bully her through the child—had,
                        it was said, threatened to carry off the little girl by violence. Mrs.
                        Barnes went in terror of him. America, however, would know how to protect
                        both the mother and the child! You can imagine the kind of thing. Well, very
                        soon Roger began to find himself a marked man in hotels, followed in the
                        streets, persecuted by interviewers; and the stream of lies that found its
                        way even into the respectable newspapers about him, his former life, his
                        habits, etc., is simply incredible! Unfortunately, he gave some
                        handle—”
                    
                    French paused a moment.
                    “Ah!” said Penrose, “I have heard rumours.”
                    French rose and began to pace the room.
                    “It is a matter I can hardly speak of calmly,” he said at last. “The night
                        after that first scene between them, the night of her fall—her pretended
                        fall, so Roger told me—he went downstairs in his excitement and misery, and
                        drank, one way and another, nearly a bottle of brandy, a thing he had never
                        done in his life before. But—”
                    “He has often done it since?”
                    French raised his shoulders sadly, then added, with some emphasis, “Don't,
                        however, suppose the thing worse than it is. Give him a gleam of hope and
                        happiness, and he would soon shake it off.”
                    “Well, what came of his action?”
                    “Nothing—so far. I believe he has ceased to take any interest in it. Another
                        line of action altogether was suggested to him. About three months ago he
                        made an attempt to kidnap the child, and was foiled. He got word that she
                        had been taken to Charlestown, and he went there with a couple of private
                        detectives. But Mrs. Barnes was on the alert, and when he discovered the
                        villa in which the child had been living, she had been removed. It was a
                        bitter shock and disappointment, and when
                        he got back to New York in November, in the middle of an epidemic, he was
                        struck down by influenza and pneumonia. It went pretty hard with him. You
                        will be shocked by his appearance. Ecco! was there ever such a story! Do you
                        remember, Penrose, what a magnificent creature he was that year he played
                        for Oxford, and you and I watched his innings from the pavilion?”
                    There was a note of emotion in the tone which implied much. Penrose assented
                        heartily, remarking, however, that it was a magnificence which seemed to
                        have cost him dear, if, as no doubt was the case, it had won him his
                        wife.
                    “But now, with regard to money; you say he wants money. But surely, at the
                        time of the marriage, something was settled on him?”
                    “Certainly, a good deal. But from the moment she left him, and the Heston
                        bills were paid, he has never touched a farthing of it, and never will.”
                    “So that the General's death was opportune? Well, it's a deplorable affair!
                        And I wish I saw any chance of being of use.”
                    French looked up anxiously.
                    “Because you know,” the speaker reluctantly continued, “there's nothing to be
                        done. The thing's finished.”
                    
                    “Finished?” French's manner took fire. “And the law can do
                            nothing! Society can do nothing, to help that
                        man either to right himself, or to recover his child? Ah!”—he paused to
                        listen—“here he is!”
                    A cab had drawn up outside. Through the lightly curtained windows the two
                        within saw a man descend from it, pay the driver, and walk up the flagged
                        passage leading to the front door.
                    French hurried to greet the new-comer.
                    “Come in, Roger! Here's George Penrose—as I promised you. Sit down, old man.
                        They'll bring us some tea presently.”
                    Roger Barnes looked round him for a moment without replying; then murmured
                        something unintelligible, as he shook hands with Penrose, and took the chair
                        which French pushed forward. French stood beside him with a furrowed
                        brow.
                    “Well, here we are, Roger!—and if there's anything whatever in this horrible
                        affair where an English lawyer can help you, Penrose is your man. You know,
                        I expect, what a swell he is? A K.C. after seven years—lucky dog!—and last
                        year he was engaged in an Anglo-American case not wholly unlike yours—Brown
                            v. Brown. So I thought of him as the best person among your
                        old friends and mine to come and give us some private informal help to-day, before you take any fresh
                        steps—if you do take any.”
                    “Awfully good of you both.” The speaker, still wrapped in his fur coat, sat
                        staring at the carpet, a hand on each of his knees. “Awfully good of you,”
                        he repeated vaguely.
                    Penrose observed the new-comer. In some ways Roger Barnes was handsomer than
                        ever. His colour, the pink and white of his astonishing complexion, was
                        miraculously vivid; his blue eyes were infinitely more arresting than of
                        old; and the touch of physical weakness in his aspect, left evidently by
                        severe illness, was not only not disfiguring, but a positive embellishment.
                        He had been too ruddy in the old days, too hearty and splendid—a too obvious
                        and supreme king of men—for our fastidious modern eyes. The grief and
                        misfortune which had shorn some of his radiance had given a more human spell
                        to what remained. At the same time the signs of change were by no means, all
                        of them, easy to read, or reassuring to a friend's eye. Were they no more
                        than physical and transient?
                    Penrose was just beginning on the questions which seemed to him important,
                        when there was another ring at the front door. French got up nervously, with
                        an anxious look at Barnes.
                    “Roger! I don't know whether you will allow
                        it, but I met an American acquaintance of yours to-day, and, subject to your
                        permission, I asked him to join our conference.”
                    Roger raised his head—it might have been thought, angrily.
                    “Who on earth—?”
                    “Captain Boyson?”
                    The young man's face changed.
                    “I don't mind him,” he said sombrely. “He's an awfully good sort. He was in
                        Philadelphia a few months ago, when I was. He knows all about me. It was he
                        and his sister who introduced me to—my wife.”
                    French left the room for a moment, and returned accompanied by a fair-haired,
                        straight-shouldered man, whom he introduced to Penrose as Captain
                        Boyson.
                    Roger rose from his chair to shake hands.
                    “How do you do, Boyson? I've told them you know all about it.” He dropped
                        back heavily into his seat.
                    “I thought I might possibly put in a word,” said the new-comer, glancing from
                        Roger to his friends. “I trust I was not impertinent? But don't let me
                        interrupt anything that was going on.”
                    On a plea of chill, Boyson remained standing by the fire, warming his hands,
                        looking down upon the other three. Penrose, who belonged to a military
                        family, reminded 
                            him-
                            himself
                         self, as he glanced at the
                        American, of a recent distinguished book on Military Geography by a Captain
                        Alfred Boyson. No doubt the same man. A capable face!—the face of the modern
                        scientific soldier. It breathed alertness; but also some quality warmer and
                        softer. If the general aspect had been shaped and moulded by an incessant
                        travail of brain, the humanity of eye and mouth spoke dumbly to the humanity
                        of others. The council gathered in the vicarage room felt itself
                        strengthened.
                    Penrose resumed his questioning of Barnes, and the other two listened while
                        the whole miserable story of the divorce, in its American aspects, unrolled.
                        At first Roger showed a certain apathy and brevity; he might have been
                        fulfilling a task in which he took but small interest; even the details of
                        chicanery and corruption connected with the trial were told without heat; he
                        said nothing bitter of his wife—avoided naming her, indeed, as much as
                        possible.
                    But when the tale was done he threw back his head with sudden animation and
                        looked at Boyson.
                    “Is that about the truth, Boyson? You know.”
                    “Yes, I endorse it,” said the American gravely. His face, thin and tanned,
                        had flushed while Barnes was speaking.
                    
                    “And you know what all their papers said of me—what they wished
                        people to believe—that I wasn't fit to have charge of Beatty—that I should
                        have done her harm?”
                    His eyes sparkled. He looked almost threateningly at the man whom he
                        addressed. Boyson met his gaze quietly.
                    “I didn't believe it.”
                    There was a pause. Then Roger sprang suddenly to his feet, confronting the
                        men round him.
                    “Look here!” he said impatiently. “I want some money at once—and a good lot
                        of it.” He brought his fist down heavily on the mantelpiece. “There's this
                        place of my uncle's, and I'm dashed if I can get a penny out of it! I went
                        to his solicitors this morning. They drove me mad with their red-tape
                        nonsense. It will take some time, they say, to get a mortgage on it, and
                        meanwhile they don't seem inclined to advance me anything, or a hundred or
                        two, perhaps. What's that? I lost my temper, and next time I go they'll turn
                        me out, I dare say. But there's the truth. It's money I want,
                        and if you can't help me to money it's no use talking.”
                    “And when you get the money what'll you do with it?” asked Penrose.
                    “Pay half a dozen people who can be trusted to help me kidnap Beatty and
                            smuggle her over the Canadian
                        frontier. I bungled the thing once. I don't mean to bungle it again.”
                    The answer was given slowly, without any bravado, but whatever energy of life
                        there was in the speaker had gone into it.
                    “And there is no other way?” French's voice from the back was troubled.
                    “Ask him?” Roger pointed to Boyson. “Is there any legal way, Boyson, in which
                        I can recover the custody and companionship of my child?”
                    Boyson turned away.
                    “None that I know of—and I have made every possible inquiry.”
                    “And yet,” said Barnes, with emphasis, addressing the English barrister, “by
                        the law of England I am still Daphne's husband and that child's legal
                        guardian?”
                    “Certainly.”
                    “And if I could once get her upon ground under the English flag, she would be
                        mine again, and no power could take her from me?”
                    “Except the same private violence that you yourself propose to exercise.”
                    “I'd take care of that!” said Roger briefly.
                    “How do you mean to do it?” asked French, with knit brows. To be sitting
                        there in an English vicarage plotting violence against a woman disturbed
                        him.
                    
                    “He and I'll manage it,” said the quiet voice of the American officer.
                    The others stared.
                    “You?” said French. “An officer in active service? It might
                        injure your career!”
                    “I shall risk it.”
                    A charming smile broke on Penrose's meditative face.
                    “My dear French, this is much more amusing than the law. But I don't quite
                        see where I come in.” He rose tentatively from his seat.
                    Boyson, however, did not smile. He looked from one to the other.
                    “My sister and I introduced Daphne Floyd to Barnes,” he said steadily, “and
                        it is my country, as I hold—or a portion of it—that allows these villainies.
                        Some day we shall get a great reaction in the States, and then the reforms
                        that plenty of us are clamouring for will come about. Meanwhile, as of
                        course you know”—he addressed French—“New Yorkers and Bostonians suffer
                        almost as much from the abominations that Nevada and South Dakota call laws,
                        as Barnes has suffered. Marriage in the eastern States is as sacred as with
                        you—South Carolina allows no divorce at all—but with this licence at our
                        gates, no one is safe, and thousands of our women, in particular—for the
                        women bring two-thirds of the actions—are going to the deuce, simply because they have the opportunity of
                        going. And the children—it doesn't bear thinking of! Well—no good
                        haranguing! I'm ashamed of my country in this matter—I have been for a long
                        time—and I mean to help Barnes out, coûte que
                            coûte! And as to the money, Barnes, you and I'll discuss
                        that.”
                    Barnes lifted a face that quivered, and he and Boyson exchanged looks.
                    Penrose glanced at the pair. That imaginative power, combined with the power
                        of drudgery, which was in process of making a great lawyer out of a Balliol
                        scholar, showed him something typical and dramatic in the two figures:—in
                        Boyson, on the one hand, so lithe, serviceable, and resolved, a helpful,
                        mercurial man, ashamed of his country in this one respect, because he adored
                        her in so many others, penitent and patriot in one:—in Barnes, on the other,
                        so heavy, inert, and bewildered, a shipwrecked suppliant as it were,
                        clinging to the knees of that very America which had so lightly and
                        irresponsibly wronged him.
                    It was Penrose who broke the silence.
                    “Is there any chance of Mrs. Barnes's marrying again?” he asked.
                    Barnes turned to him.
                    “Not that I know of.”
                    “There's no one else in the case?”
                    “I never heard of anyone.” Roger gave a
                        short, excited laugh. “What she's done, she's done because she was tired of
                        me, not because she was in love with anyone else. That was her great score
                        in the divorce case—that there was nobody.”
                    Biting and twisting his lip, in a trick that recalled to French the beautiful
                        Eton lad, cracking his brains in the pupil-room over a bit of Latin prose,
                        Roger glanced, frowning, from one to the other of these three men who felt
                        for him, whose resentment of the wrong that had been done him, whose pity
                        for his calamity showed plainly enough through their reticent speech.
                    His sense, indeed, of their sympathy began to move him, to break down his own
                        self-command. No doubt, also, the fatal causes that ultimately ruined his
                        will-power were already at work. At any rate, he broke out into sudden
                        speech about his case. His complexion, now unhealthily delicate, like the
                        complexion of a girl, had flushed deeply. As he spoke he looked mainly at
                        French.
                    “There's lots of things you don't know,” he said in a hesitating voice, as
                        though appealing to his old friend. And rapidly he told the story of
                        Daphne's flight from Heston. Evidently since his return home many details
                        that were once obscure had become plain to him; and the three listeners
                        could perceive how certain new information
                        had goaded and stung him afresh. He dwelt on the letters which had reached
                        him during his first week's absence from home, after the quarrel—letters
                        from Daphne and Miss Farmer, which were posted at intervals from Heston by
                        their accomplice, the young architect, while the writers of them were
                        hurrying across the Atlantic. The servants had been told that Mrs. Barnes,
                        Miss Farmer, and the little girl were going to London for a day or two, and
                        suspected nothing. “I wrote long letters—lots of them—to my wife. I thought
                        I had made everything right—not that there ever had been anything wrong, you
                        understand,—seriously. But in some ways I had behaved like a fool.”
                    He threw himself back in his chair, pressing his hands on his eyes. The
                        listeners sat or stood motionless.
                    “Well, I might have spared my pains. The letters were returned to me from the
                        States. Daphne had arranged it all so cleverly that I was some time in
                        tracing her. By the time I had got to Sioux Falls she was through a month of
                        her necessary residence. My God!”—his voice dropped, became almost
                        inaudible—“if I'd only carried Beatty off then!—then and
                        there—the frontier wasn't far off—without waiting for anything more. But I
                        wouldn't believe that Daphne could persist in such a monstrous thing, and, if she did, that any decent country
                        would aid and abet her.”
                    Boyson made a movement of protest, as though he could not listen any longer
                        in silence.
                    “I am ashamed to remind you, Barnes,—again—that your case is no worse than
                        that of scores of American citizens. We are the first to suffer from our own
                        enormities.”
                    “Perhaps,” said Barnes absently, “perhaps.”
                    His impulse of speech dropped. He sat, drearily staring into the fire,
                        absorbed in recollection.
                    Penrose had gone. So had Boyson. Roger was sitting by the fire in the vicar's
                        study, ministered to by Elsie French and her children. By common consent the
                        dismal subject of the day had been put aside. There was an attempt to cheer
                        and distract him. The little boy of four was on his knee, declaiming the
                        “Owl and the Pussy Cat,” while Roger submissively turned the pages and
                        pointed to the pictures of that immortal history. The little girl of two,
                        curled up on her mother's lap close by, listened sleepily, and Elsie,
                        applauding and prompting as a properly regulated mother should, was all the
                        time, in spirit, hovering pitifully about her guest and his plight. There
                        was in her, as in
                         Boyson, a touch of patriotic remorse; and
                        all the pieties of her own being, all the sacred memories of her own life,
                        combined to rouse in her indignation and sympathy for Herbert's poor friend.
                        The thought of what Daphne Barnes had done was to her a monstrosity hardly
                        to be named. She spoke to the young man kindly and shyly, as though she
                        feared lest any chance word might wound him; she was the symbol, in her
                        young motherliness, of all that Daphne had denied and forsaken. “When would
                        America—dear, dear America!—see to it that such things were made
                        impossible!”
                    Roger meanwhile was evidently cheered and braced. The thought of the
                        interview to which Boyson had confidentially bidden him on the morrow ran
                        warmly in his veins, and the children soothed him. The little boy
                        especially, who was just Beatty's age, excited in him a number of practical
                        curiosities. How about the last teeth? He actually inserted a coaxing and
                        inquiring finger, the babe gravely suffering it. Any trouble with them?
                        Beatty had once been very ill with hers, at Philadelphia, mostly caused,
                        however, by some beastly, indigestible food that the nurse had let her have.
                        And they allowed her to sit up much too late. Didn't Mrs. French think seven
                        o'clock was late enough—for any child not
                        yet four? One couldn't say that Beatty was a very robust child, but
                        healthy—oh yes, healthy!—none of your sickly, rickety little things.
                    The curtains had been closed. The street children, the electric light
                        outside, were no longer visible. Roger had begun to talk of departure, the
                        baby had fallen fast asleep in her mother's arms, when there was another
                        loud ring at the front door.
                    French, who was expecting the headmaster of his church schools, gathered up
                        some papers and left the room. His wife, startled by what seemed an
                        exclamation from him in the hall outside, raised her head a moment to
                        listen; but the sound of voices—surely a woman's voice?—died abruptly away,
                        and the door of the dining-room closed. Roger heard nothing; he was laughing
                        and crooning over the boy. 
                            “The Pobble that lost his toes
                            Had once as many as we.”
                        
                    The door opened. Herbert stood on the threshold beckoning to her. She rose in
                        terror, the child in her arms, and went out to him. In a minute she
                        reappeared in the doorway, her face ashen-white, and called to the little
                        boy. He ran to her, and Roger rose, looking for the hat he had put down on
                        entering.
                    Then French came in, and behind him a lady
                        in black, dishevelled, bathed in tears. The vicar hung back. Roger turned in
                        astonishment.
                    “Mother! You here? Mother!”—he hurried to her—“what's the matter?”
                    She tottered towards him with outstretched hands.
                    “Oh, Roger, Roger!”
                    His name died away in a wail as she clasped him.
                    “What is it, mother?”
                    “It's Beatty—my son!—my darling Roger!” She put up her hands piteously,
                        bending his head down to her. “It's a cable from Washington, from that
                        woman, Mrs. Verrier. They did everything, Roger—it was only three days—and
                        hopeless always. Yesterday convulsions came on—and this morning—” Her head
                        dropped against her son's breast as her voice failed her. He put her roughly
                        from him.
                    “What are you talking of, mother! Do you mean that Beatty has been ill?”
                    “She died last night. Roger—my darling son—my poor Roger!”
                    “Died—last night—Beatty?”
                    French in silence handed him the telegram. Roger disengaged himself and
                        walked to the fireplace, standing motionless, with his back to them, for a
                        minute, while they held their breaths.
                        Then he began to grope again for his hat, without a word.
                    “Come home with me, Roger!” implored his mother, pursuing him. “We must bear
                        it—bear it together. You see—she didn't suffer”—she pointed to the
                        message—“the darling!—the darling!”
                    Her voice lost itself in tears. But Roger brushed her away, as though
                        resenting her emotion, and made for the door.
                    French also put out a hand.
                    “Roger, dear, dear old fellow! Stay here with us—with your mother. Where are
                        you going?”
                    Roger looked at his watch unsteadily.
                    “The office will be closed,” he said to himself; “but I can put some things
                        together.”
                    “Where are you going, Roger?” cried Lady Barnes, pursuing him. Roger faced
                        her.
                    “It's Tuesday. There'll be a White Star boat to-morrow.”
                    “But, Roger, what can you do? She's gone, dear—she's gone. And before you can
                        get there—long before—she will be in her grave.”
                    A spasm passed over his face, into which the colour rushed. Without another
                        word he wrenched himself from her, opened the front door, and ran out into
                        the night.
                    
                     
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER X
                    “WAS there ever anything so poetic, so suggestive?” said a
                        charming voice. “One might make a new Turner out of it—if one just happened
                        to be Turner!—to match ‘Rain, Steam, and Speed.’”
                    “What would you call it—‘Mist, Light, and Spring’?”
                    Captain Boyson leant forward, partly to watch the wonderful landscape effect
                        through which the train was passing, partly because his young wife's
                        profile, her pure cheek and soft hair, were so agreeably seen under the
                        mingled light from outside.
                    They were returning from their wedding journey. Some six weeks before this
                        date Boyson had married in Philadelphia a girl coming from one of the old
                        Quaker stocks of that town, in whose tender steadfastness of character a man
                        inclined both by nature and experience to expect little from life had found
                        a happiness that amazed him.
                    The bridegroom, also, had just been appointed to the Military Attachéship at
                        the Berlin Embassy, and the couple were, in fact, on their way south to New
                        York and 
                            embarka-
                            embarkation
                         tion. But there were still a few
                        days left of the honeymoon, of which they had spent the last half in Canada,
                        and on this May night they were journeying from Toronto along the southern
                        shore of Lake Ontario to the pleasant Canadian hotel which overlooks the
                        pageant of Niagara. They had left Toronto in bright sunshine, but as they
                        turned the corner of the lake westward, a white fog had come creeping over
                        the land as the sunset fell.
                    But the daylight was still strong, the fog thin; so that it appeared rather
                        as a veil of gold, amethyst, and opal, floating over the country, now
                        parting altogether, now blotting out the orchards and the fields. And into
                        the colour above melted the colour below. For the orchards that cover the
                        Hamilton district of Ontario were in bloom, and the snow of the pear-trees,
                        the flush of the peach-blossom broke everywhere through the warm cloud of
                        pearly mist; while, just as Mrs. Boyson spoke, the train had come in sight
                        of the long flashing line of the Welland Canal, which wound its way,
                        outlined by huge electric lamps, through the sunset and the fog, till the
                        lights died in that northern distance where stretched the invisible shore of
                        the great lake. The glittering waterway, speaking of the labour and commerce
                        of men, the blossom-laden earth, the white approaching mist, the softly
                        falling night:—the girl-bride could not
                        tear herself from the spectacle. She sat beside the window entranced. But
                        her husband had captured her hand, and into the overflowing beauty of nature
                        there stole the thrill of their love.
                    “All very well!” said Boyson presently. “But a fog at Niagara is no
                        joke!”
                    The night stole on, and the cloud through which they journeyed grew denser.
                        Up crept the fog, on stole the night. The lights of the canal faded, the
                        orchards sank into darkness, and when the bride and bridegroom reached the
                        station on the Canadian side the bride's pleasure had become dismay.
                    “Oh, Alfred, we shan't see anything!”
                    And, indeed, as their carriage made its slow progress along the road that
                        skirts the gorge, they seemed to plunge deeper and deeper into the fog. A
                        white darkness, as though of impenetrable yet glimmering cloud, above and
                        around them; a white abyss beneath them; and issuing from it the thunderous
                        voice of wild waters, dim first and distant, but growing steadily in volume
                        and terror.
                    “There are the lights of the bridge!” cried Boyson, “and the towers of the
                        aluminium works. But not a vestige of the Falls! Gone! Wiped out! I say,
                        darling, this is going to be a disappointment.”
                    Mrs. Boyson, however, was not so sure. The
                        lovely “nocturne” of the evening plain had passed into a Vision or Masque of
                        Force that captured the mind. High above the gulf rose the towers of the
                        great works, transformed by the surging fog and darkness into some piled and
                        castled fortress; a fortress of Science held by Intelligence. Lights were in
                        the towers, as of genii at their work; lights glimmered here and there on
                        the face of the farther cliff, as though to measure the vastness of the
                        gorge and of that resounding vacancy towards which they moved. In front, the
                        arch of the vast suspension bridge, pricked in light, crossed the gulf, from
                        nothingness to nothingness, like that skyey bridge on which the gods marched
                        to Walhalla. Otherwise, no shape, no landmark; earth and heaven had
                        disappeared.
                    “Here we are at the hotel,” said Boyson. “There, my dear,”—he pointed
                        ironically—“is the American Fall, and there—is the Canadian! Let me
                        introduce you to Niagara!”
                    They jumped out of the carriage, and while their bags were being carried in
                        they ran to the parapeted edge of the cliff in front of the hotel. Niagara
                        thundered in their ears; the spray of it beat upon their faces; but of the
                        two great Falls immediately in front of them they saw nothing whatever. The
                        fog, now cold and clammy, enwrapped them; even the bright lights of the
                        hotel, but a stone's throw distant, were
                        barely visible; and the carriage still standing at the steps had
                        vanished.
                    Suddenly, some common impulse born of the moment and the scene—of its inhuman
                        ghostliness and grandeur—drew them to each other. Boyson threw his arm round
                        his young wife and pressed her to him, kissing her face and hair, bedewed by
                        the spray. She clung to him passionately, trembling a little, as the roar
                        deafened them and the fog swept round them.
                    As the Boysons lingered in the central hall of the hotel, reading some
                        letters which had been handed to them, a lady in black passed along the
                        gallery overhead and paused a moment to look at the new arrivals brought by
                        the evening train.
                    As she perceived Captain Boyson there was a quick, startled movement; she
                        bent a moment over the staircase, as though to make sure of his identity,
                        and then ran along the gallery to a room at the farther end. As she opened
                        the door a damp cold air streamed upon her, and the thunder of the Falls,
                        with which the hotel is perpetually filled, seemed to redouble.
                    Three large windows opposite to her were, in fact, wide open; the room, with
                        its lights dimmed by fog, seemed hung above the abyss.
                    An invalid couch stood in front of the window, and upon it lay a pale,
                            emaciated woman, breathing quickly and
                        feebly. At the sound of the closing door, Madeleine Verrier turned.
                    “Oh, Daphne, I was afraid you had gone out! You do such wild things!”
                    Daphne Barnes came to the side of the couch.
                    “Darling, I only went to speak to your maid for a moment. Are you sure you
                        can stand all this damp fog?”
                    As she spoke Daphne took up a fur cloak lying on a chair near, and wrapped
                        herself warmly in it.
                    “I can't breathe when they shut the windows. But it is too cold for you.”
                    “Oh, I'm all right in this.” Daphne drew the cloak round her.
                    Inwardly she said to herself, “Shall I tell her the Boysons are here? Yes, I
                        must. She is sure to hear it in some way.”
                    So, stooping over the couch, she said:
                    “Do you know who arrived this evening? The Alfred Boysons. I saw them in the
                        hall just now.”
                    “They're on their honeymoon?” asked the faint voice, after a just perceptible
                        pause.
                    Daphne assented. “She seems a pretty little thing.”
                    Madeleine Verrier opened her tired eyes to look at Daphne. Mrs. Floyd—as
                        Daphne now called herself—was dressed in deep black. The costly gown revealed a figure which had recently
                        become substantial, and the face on which the electric light shone had
                        nothing left in it of the girl, though Daphne Floyd was not yet thirty. The
                        initial beauty of complexion was gone; so was the fleeting prettiness of
                        youth. The eyes were as splendid as ever, but combined with the increased
                        paleness of the cheeks, the greater prominence and determination of the
                        mouth, and a certain austerity in the dressing of the hair, which was now
                        firmly drawn back from the temples round which it used to curl, and worn
                        high, à la Marquise, they expressed a
                        personality—a formidable personality—in which self-will was no longer
                        graceful, and power no longer magnetic. Madeleine Verrier gazed at her
                        friend in silence. She was very grateful to Daphne, often very dependent on
                        her. But there were moments when she shrank from her, when she would gladly
                        never have seen her again. Daphne was still erect, self-confidant, militant;
                        whereas Madeleine knew herself vanquished—vanquished both in body and
                        soul.
                    Certain inner miseries and discomforts had been set vibrating by the name of
                        Captain Boyson.
                    “You won't want to see him or come across him?” she said abruptly.
                    “Who? Alfred Boyson? I am not afraid of him
                        in the least. He may say what he pleases—or think what he pleases. It
                        doesn't matter to me.”
                    “When did you see him last?”
                    Daphne hesitated a moment. “When he came to ask me for certain things which
                        had belonged to Beatty.”
                    “For Roger? I remember. It must have been painful.”
                    “Yes,” said Daphne unwillingly, “it was. He was very unfriendly. He always
                        has been—since it happened. But I bore him no malice”—the tone was firm—“and
                        the interview was short.”
                    “Beatty—” The half audible word fell like a sigh from Madeleine's lips as she
                        closed her eyes again to shut out the light which teased them. And presently
                        she added, “Do you ever hear anything now—from England?”
                    “Just what I might expect to hear—what more than justifies all that I
                        did.”
                    Daphne sat rigid on her chair, her hands crossed on her lap. Mrs. Verrier did
                        not pursue the conversation.
                    Outside the fog grew thicker and darker. Even the lights on the bridge were
                        now engulfed. Daphne began to shiver in her fur cloak. She put out a cold
                        hand and took one of Mrs. Verrier's.
                    “Dear Madeleine! Indeed, indeed, you ought
                        to let me move you from this place. Do let me! There's the house at
                        Stockbridge all ready. And in July I could take you to Newport. I must be
                        off next week, for I've promised to take the chair at a big meeting at
                        Buffalo on the 29th. But I can't bear to leave you behind. We could make the
                        journey quite easy for you. That new car of mine is very comfortable.”
                    “I know it is. But, thank you, dear, I like this hotel; and it will be summer
                        directly.”
                    Daphne hesitated. A strong protest against “morbidness” was on her lips, but
                        she did not speak it. In the mist-filled room even the bright fire, the
                        electric lights, had grown strangely dim. Only the roar outside was
                        real—terribly, threateningly real. Yet the sound was not so much fierce as
                        lamentable; the voice of Nature mourning the eternal flaw and conflict at
                        the heart of things. Daphne knew well that, mingled with this primitive,
                        cosmic voice, there was—for Madeleine Verrier—another: a plaintive, human
                        cry, that was drawing the life out of her breast, the blood from her veins,
                        like some baneful witchcraft of old. But she dared not speak of it; she and
                        the doctor who attended Mrs. Verrier dared no longer name the patient's
                        “obsession” even to each other. They had tried to combat it, to tear her
                        from this place; with no other result, as
                        it seemed, than to hasten the death-process which was upon her. Gently, but
                        firmly, she had defied them, and they knew now that she would always defy
                        them. For a year past, summer and winter, she had lived in this apartment
                        facing the Falls; her nurses found her very patient under the incurable
                        disease which had declared itself; Daphne came to stay with her when arduous
                        engagements allowed, and Madeleine was always grateful and affectionate. But
                        certain topics, and certain advocacies, had dropped out of their
                        conversation—not by Daphne's will. There had been no spoken recantation;
                        only the prophetess prophesied no more; and of late, especially when Daphne
                        was not there—so Mrs. Floyd had discovered—a Roman Catholic priest had begun
                        to visit Mrs. Verrier. Daphne, moreover, had recently noticed a small
                        crucifix, hidden among the folds of the loose black dress which Madeleine
                        commonly wore.
                    Daphne had changed her dress and dismissed her maid. Although it was May, a
                        wood-fire had been lighted in her room to counteract the chilly damp of the
                        evening. She hung over it, loth to go back to the sitting-room, and plagued
                        by a depression that not even her strong will could immediately shake off.
                        She wished the Boysons had not come. She
                        supposed that Alfred Boyson would hardly cut her; but she was tolerably
                        certain that he would not wish his young wife to become acquainted with her.
                        She scorned his disapproval of her; but she smarted under it. It combined
                        with Madeleine's strange delusions to put her on the defensive; to call out
                        all the fierceness of her pride; to make her feel herself the champion of a
                        sound and reasonable view of life as against weakness and reaction.
                    Madeleine's dumb remorse was, indeed, the most paralysing and baffling thing;
                        nothing seemed to be of any avail against it, now that it had finally gained
                        the upper hand. There had been dark times, no doubt, in the old days in
                        Washington; times when the tragedy of her husband's death had overshadowed
                        her. But in the intervals, what courage and boldness, what ardour in the
                        declaration of that new Feminist gospel to which Daphne had in her own case
                        borne witness! Daphne remembered well with what feverish readiness Madeleine
                        had accepted her own pleas after her flight from England; how she had
                        defended her against hostile criticism, had supported her during the divorce
                        court proceedings, and triumphed in their result. “You are unhappy? And he
                        deceived you? Well, then, what more do you want?, Free yourself, my dear, free yourself! What right have you
                        to bear more children to a man who is a liar and a shuffler? It is our
                        generation that must suffer, for the liberty of those that come after!”
                    What had changed her? Was it simply the approach of mortal illness, the old
                        questioning of “what dreams may come”? Superstition, in fact? As a girl she
                        had been mystical and devout; so Daphne had heard.
                    Or was it the death of little Beatty, to whom she was much attached? She had
                        seen something of Roger during that intermediate Philadelphia stage, when he
                        and Beatty were allowed to meet at her house; and she had once or twice
                        astonished and wounded Daphne at that time by sudden expressions of pity for
                        him. It was she who had sent the cable message announcing the child's death,
                        wording it as gently as possible, and had wept in sending it.
                    “As if I hadn't suffered too!” cried Daphne's angry thought. And she turned
                        to look at the beautiful miniature of Beatty set in pearls that stood upon
                        her dressing-table. There was something in the recollection of Madeleine's
                        sensibility with regard to the child—as in that of her compassion for the
                        father's suffering—that offended Daphne. It seemed a reflection upon
                        herself, Beatty's mother, as lacking in softness and natural feeling.
                    
                    On the contrary! She had suffered terribly; but she had thought it her duty
                        to bear it with courage, not to let it interfere with the development of her
                        life. And as for Roger, was it her fault that he had made it impossible for
                        her to keep her promise? That she had been forced to separate Beatty from
                        him? And if, as she understood now from various English correspondents, it
                        was true that Roger had dropped out of decent society, did it not simply
                        prove that she had guessed his character aright, and had only saved herself
                        just in time?
                    It was as though the sudden presence of Captain Boyson under the same roof
                        had raised up a shadowy adversary and accuser, with whom she must go on thus
                        arguing, and hotly defending herself, in a growing excitement. Not that she
                        would ever stoop to argue with Alfred Boyson face to face. How could he ever
                        understand the ideals to which she had devoted her powers and her money
                        since the break-up of her married life? He could merely estimate what she
                        had done in the commonest, vulgarest way. Yet who could truthfully charge
                        her with having obtained her divorce in order thereby to claim any fresh
                        licence for herself? She looked back now with a cool amazement on that
                        sudden rush of passion which had swept her into marriage, no less than
                            the jealousy which had led her to
                        break with Roger. She was still capable of many kinds of violence; but not,
                        probably, of the violence of love. The influence of sex and sense upon her
                        had weakened; the influence of ambition had increased. As in many women of
                        Southern race, the period of hot blood had passed into a period of intrigue
                        and domination. Her wealth gave her power, and for that power she lived.
                    Yes, she was personally desolate, but she had stood firm, and her reward lay
                        in the fact that she had gathered round her an army of dependents and
                        followers—women especially—to whom her money and her brains were
                        indispensable. There on the table lay the plans for a new Women's College,
                        on the broadest and most modern lines, to which she was soon to devote a
                        large sum of money. The walls should have been up by now but for a quarrel
                        with her secretary, who had become much too independent, and had had to be
                        peremptorily dismissed at a moment's notice. But the plan was a noble one,
                        approved by the highest authorities; and Daphne, looking to posterity,
                        anticipated the recognition that she herself might never live to see. For
                        the rest she had given herself—with reservations—to the Feminist movement.
                        It was not in her nature to give herself wholly to anything; and she was
                        instinctively critical of people who 
                            pro-
                            professed
                         fessed to be her leaders, and
                        programmes to which she was expected to subscribe. Wholehearted devotion,
                        which, as she rightly said, meant blind devotion, had never been her line;
                        and she had been on one or two occasions offensively outspoken on the
                        subject of certain leading persons in the movement. She was not, therefore,
                        popular with her party, and did not care to be; her pride of money held her
                        apart from the rank and file, the college girls, and typists, and
                        journalists who filled the Feminist meetings, and often made themselves, in
                        her eyes, supremely ridiculous, because of what she considered their silly
                        provinciality and lack of knowledge of the world.
                    Yet, of course, she was a “Feminist”—and particularly associated with those
                        persons in the suffrage camp who stood for broad views on marriage and
                        divorce. She knew very well that many other persons in the same camp held
                        different opinions; and in public or official gatherings was always
                        nervously—most people thought arrogantly—on the look-out for affronts.
                        Meanwhile, everywhere, or almost everywhere, her money gave her power, and
                        her knowledge of it was always sweet to her. There was nothing in the
                        world—no cause, no faith—that she could have accepted “as a little child.”
                        But everywhere, in her own opinion, she stood for Justice; justice for women
                        as against the old primæval tyranny of
                        men; justice, of course, to the workman, and justice to the rich. No foolish
                        Socialism, and no encroaching Trusts! A lucid common-sense, so it seemed to
                        her, had been her cradle-gift.
                    And with regard to Art, how much she had been able to do! She had generously
                        helped the public collections, and her own small gallery, at the house in
                        Newport, was famous throughout England and America. That in the course of
                        the preceding year she had found among the signatures, extracted from
                        visitors by the custodian in charge, the name of Chloe Fairmile, had given
                        her a peculiar satisfaction.
                    She walked proudly across the room, her head thrown back, every nerve tense.
                        Let the ignorant and stupid blame her if they chose. She stood absolved.
                        Memory reminded her, moreover, of a great number of kind and generous
                        things—private things—that she had done with her money. If men like Herbert
                        French, or Alfred Boyson, denounced her, there were many persons who felt
                        warmly towards her—and had cause. As she thought of them the tears rose in
                        her eyes. Of course she could never make such things public.
                    Outside the fog seemed to be lifting a little. There was a silvery light in
                        the south-east, a gleam and radiance over the gorge. If the moon struggled through, it would be worth while
                        slipping out after dinner to watch its play upon the great spectacle. She
                        was careful to cherish in herself an openness to noble impressions and to
                        the high poetry of nature and life. And she must not allow herself to be led
                        by the casual neighbourhood of the Boysons into weak or unprofitable
                        thought.
                    The Boysons dined at a table, gay with lights and flowers, that should have
                        commanded the Falls but for the curtain of fog. Niagara, however, might
                        flout them if it pleased; they could do without Niagara. They were delighted
                        that the hotel, apparently, contained no one they knew. All they wanted was
                        to be together, and alone. But the bride was tired by a long day in the
                        train; her smiles began presently to flag, and by nine o'clock her husband
                        had insisted on sending her to rest.
                    After escorting her upstairs Captain Boyson returned to the verandah, which
                        was brightly lit up, in order to read some letters that were still unopened
                        in his pocket. But before he began upon them he was seized once more by the
                        wizardry of the scene. Was that indistinct glimmer in the far distance—that
                        intenser white on white—the eternal cloud of spray that hangs over the
                        Canadian Fall? If so, the fog was indeed
                        yielding, and the full moon behind it would triumph before long. On the
                        other hand, he could no longer see the lights of the bridge at all; the
                        rolling vapour choked the gorge, and the waiter who brought him his coffee
                        drily prophesied that there would not be much change under twenty-four
                        hours.
                    He fell back upon his letters, well pleased to see that one among them came
                        from Herbert French, with whom the American officer had maintained a warm
                        friendship since the day of a certain consultation in French's East-End
                        library. The letter was primarily one of congratulation, written with all
                        French's charm and sympathy; but over the last pages of it Boyson's face
                        darkened, for they contained a deplorable account of the man whom he and
                        French had tried to save.
                    The concluding passage of the letter ran as follows:
                    “You will scarcely wonder after all this that we see him very seldom, and
                        that he no longer gives us his confidence. Yet both Elsie and I feel that he
                        cares for us as much as ever. And, indeed, poor fellow, he himself remains
                        strangely lovable, in spite of what one must—alas!—believe as to his ways of
                        life and the people with whom he associates. There is in him, always,
                        something of what Myers called ‘the
                        imperishable child.’ That a man who might have been so easily led to good
                        has been so fatally thrust into evil is one of the abiding sorrows of my
                        life. How can I reproach him for his behaviour? As the law stands, he can
                        never marry; he can never have legitimate children. Under the wrong he has
                        suffered, and, no doubt, in consequence of that illness in New York, when he
                        was badly nursed and cared for—from which, in fact, he has never wholly
                        recovered—his will-power and nerve, which were never very strong, have given
                        way; he broods upon the past perpetually, and on the loss of his child. Our
                        poor Apollo, Boyson, will soon have lost himself wholly, and there is no one
                        to help.
                    “Do you ever see or hear anything of that woman? Do you know what has become
                        of her? I see you are to have a Conference on your Divorce Laws—that opinion
                        and indignation are rising. For Heaven's sake, do something! I gather some
                        appalling facts from a recent Washington report. One in twelve of all your
                        marriages dissolved! A man or a woman divorced in one State, and still bound
                        in another! The most trivial causes for the break-up of marriage, accepted
                        and acted upon by corrupt courts, and reform blocked by a phalanx of corrupt
                        interests! Is it all true? An American correspondent of mine—a lady— repeats to me what you once said, that it
                        is the women who bring the majority of the actions. She impresses upon me
                        also the remarkable fact that it is apparently only in a minority of cases
                        that a woman, when she has got rid of her husband, marries someone else. It
                        is not passion, therefore, that dictates many of these actions; no serious
                        cause or feeling, indeed, of any kind; but rather an ever-spreading
                        restlessness and levity, a readiness to tamper with the very foundations of
                        society, for a whim, a nothing!—in the interests, often, of what women call
                        their ‘individuality’! No foolish talk here of being ‘members one of
                        another’! We have outgrown all that. The facilities are always there, and
                        the temptation of them. ‘The women—especially—who do these things,’ she
                        writes me, ‘are moral anarchists. One can appeal to nothing; they
                        acknowledge nothing. Transformations infinitely far-reaching and profound
                        are going on among us.’
                    “‘Appeal to nothing!’ And this said of women, by a woman! It was
                        of men that a Voice said long ago: ‘Moses, because of the
                        hardness of your hearts, suffered you to put away your wives’—just such
                        grounds, apparently—trivial and cruel pretexts—as your American courts
                        admit. ‘But I say unto you!—I say unto
                        you!’....
                    “Well, I am a Christian priest, incapable,
                        of course, of an unbiassed opinion. My correspondent tries to explain the
                        situation a little by pointing out that your women in America claim to be
                        the superiors of your men, to be more intellectual, better-mannered, more
                        refined. Marriage disappoints or disgusts them, and they impatiently put it
                        aside. They break it up, and seem to pay no penalty. But you and I believe
                        that they will pay it!—that there are divine avenging forces in the very law
                        they tamper with—and that, as a nation, you must either retrace some of the
                        steps taken, or sink in the scale of life.
                    “How I run on! And all because my heart is hot within me for the suffering of
                        one man, and the hardness of one woman!”
                    Boyson raised his eyes. As he did so he saw dimly through the mist the figure
                        of a lady, veiled, and wrapped in a fur cloak, crossing the farther end of
                        the verandah. He half rose from his seat, with an exclamation. She ran down
                        the steps leading to the road and disappeared in the fog.
                    Boyson stood looking after her, his mind in a whirl.
                    The manager of the hotel came hurriedly out of the same door by which Daphne
                        Floyd had emerged, and spoke to a waiter on the verandah, pointing in the
                        direction she had taken.
                    
                    Boyson heard what was said, and came up. A short conversation passed between
                        him and the manager. There was a moment's pause on Boyson's part; he still
                        held French's letter in his hand. At last, thrusting it into his pocket, he
                        hurried to the steps whereby Daphne had left the hotel, and pursued her into
                        the cloud outside.
                    The fog was now rolling back from the gorge, upon the Falls, blotting out the
                        transient gleams which had seemed to promise a lifting of the veil, leaving
                        nothing around or beneath but the white and thunderous abyss.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XI
                    DAPHNE'S purpose in quitting the hotel had been to find her
                        way up the river by the road which runs along the gorge on the Canadian
                        side, from the hotel to the Canadian Fall. Thick as the fog still was in the
                        gorge she hoped to find some clearer air beyond it. She felt oppressed and
                        stifled; and though she had told Madeleine that she was going out in search
                        of effects and spectacle, it was in truth the neighbourhood of Alfred Boyson
                        which had made her restless.
                    The road was lit at intervals by electric lamps, but after a time she found
                        the passage of it not particularly easy. Some repairs to the tramway lines
                        were going on higher up, and she narrowly escaped various pitfalls in the
                        shape of trenches and holes in the roadway, very insufficiently marked by
                        feeble lamps. But the stir in her blood drove her on; so did the strangeness
                        of this white darkness, suffused with moonlight, yet, in this immediate
                        neighbourhood of the Falls, impenetrable. She was impatient to get through
                        it; to breathe an unembarrassed air.
                    
                    The roar at her left hand grew wilder. She had reached a point some distance
                        from the hotel, close to the jutting corner, once open, now walled and
                        protected, where the traveller approaches nearest to the edge of the
                        Canadian Fall. She knew the spot well, and groping for the wall, she stood
                        breathless and spray-beaten beside the gulf.
                    Only a few yards from her the vast sheet of water descended. She could see
                        nothing of it, but the wind of its mighty plunge blew back her hair, and her
                        mackintosh cloak was soon dripping with the spray. Once, far away, above the
                        Falls, she seemed to perceive a few dim lights along the bend of the river;
                        perhaps from one of the great power-houses that tame to man's service the
                        spirits of the water. Otherwise—nothing! She was alone with the perpetual
                        challenge and fascination of the Falls.
                    As she stood there she was seized by a tragic recollection. It was from this
                        spot, so she believed, that Leopold Verrier had thrown himself over. The
                        body had been carried down through the rapids, and recovered, terribly
                        injured, in the deep eddying pool which the river makes below them. He had
                        left no letter or message of any sort behind him. But the reasons for his
                        suicide were clearly understood by a large public, whose main verdict upon it was the quiet “What else could he
                        do?”
                    Here, then, on this very spot, he had stood before his leap. Daphne had heard
                        him described by various spectators of the marriage. He had been, it seemed,
                        a man of sensitive temperament, who should have been an artist and was a man
                        of business; a considerable musician, and something of a poet; proud of his
                        race and faith and himself irreproachable, yet perpetually wounded through
                        his family, which bore a name of ill-repute in the New York business world;
                        passionately grateful to his wife for having married him, delighting in her
                        beauty and charm, and foolishly, abjectly eager to heap upon her and their
                        child everything that wealth could buy.
                    “It was Madeleine's mother who made it hopeless,” thought Daphne. “But for
                        Mrs. Fanshaw—it might have lasted.”
                    And memory called up Mrs. Fanshaw, the beautifully dressed woman of fifty,
                        with her pride of wealth and family, belonging to the strictest sect of New
                        York's social élite, with her hard,
                        fastidious face, her formidable elegance and self-possession. How she had
                        loathed the marriage! And with what a harpy-like eagerness had she seized on
                        the first signs of Madeleine's discontent and ennui; persuaded her to come home; prepared the divorce;
                        poisoned public opinion. It was from a
                        last interview with Mrs. Fanshaw that Leopold Verrier had gone straight to
                        his death. What was it that she had said to him?
                    Daphne lingered on the question; haunted, too, by other stray recollections
                        of the dismal story—the doctor driving by in the early morning who had seen
                        the fall; the discovery of the poor broken body; Madeleine's blanched
                        stoicism, under the fierce coercion of her mother; and that strong, silent,
                        slow-setting tide of public condemnation, which in this instance, at least,
                        had avenged a cruel act.
                    But at this point Daphne ceased to think about her friend. She found herself
                        suddenly engaged in a heated self-defence. What comparison could there be
                        between her case and Madeleine's?
                    Fiercely she found herself going through the list of Roger's crimes; his
                        idleness, treachery and deceit; his lack of any high ideals; his bad
                        influence on the child; his luxurious self-indulgent habits, the lies he had
                        told, the insults he had offered her. By now the story had grown to a lurid
                        whole in her imagination, based on a few distorted facts, yet radically and
                        monstrously untrue. Generally, however, when she dwelt upon it, it had power
                        to soothe any smart of conscience, to harden any yearning of the heart,
                            supposing she felt any. And by now she
                        had almost ceased to feel any.
                    But to-night she was mysteriously shaken and agitated. As she clung to the
                        wall, which alone separated her from the echoing gulf beyond, she could not
                        prevent herself from thinking of Roger, Roger as he was when Alfred Boyson
                        introduced him to her, when they first married, and she had been blissfully
                        happy; happy in the possession of such a god-like creature, in the envy of
                        other women, in the belief that he was growing more and more truly attached
                        to her.
                    Her thoughts broke abruptly. “He married me for money!” cried the inward
                        voice. Then she felt her cheeks tingling as she remembered her conversation
                        with Madeleine on that very subject—how she had justified what she was now
                        judging—how plainly she had understood and condoned it.
                    “That was my inexperience! Besides, I knew nothing then of Chloe Fairmile. If
                        I had—I should never have done it.”
                    She turned, startled. Steps seemed to be approaching her, of someone as yet
                        invisible. Her nerves were all on edge, and she felt suddenly frightened.
                        Strangers of all kinds visit and hang about Niagara; she was quite alone,
                        known to be the rich Mrs. Floyd; if she were attacked—set upon—
                    The outline of a man's form emerged; she
                        heard her name, or rather the name she had renounced.
                    “I saw you come in this direction, Mrs. Barnes. I knew the road was up in
                        some places, and I thought in this fog you would allow me to warn you that
                        walking was not very safe.”
                    The voice was Captain Boyson's; and they were now plain to each other as they
                        stood a couple of yards apart. The fog, however, was at last slightly
                        breaking. There was a gleam over the nearer water; not merely the lights,
                        but the span of the bridge had begun to appear.
                    Daphne composed herself with an effort.
                    “I am greatly obliged to you,” she said in her most freezing manner. “But I
                        found no difficulty at all in getting through, and the fog is lifting.”
                    With a stiff inclination she turned in the direction of the hotel, but
                        Captain Boyson stood in her way. She saw a face embarrassed yet
                        resolved.
                    “Mrs. Barnes, may I speak to you a few minutes?”
                    Daphne gave a slight laugh.
                    “I don't see how I can prevent it. So you didn't follow me, Captain Boyson,
                        out of mere regard for my personal safety?”
                    “If I hadn't come myself I should have sent
                        someone,” he replied quietly. “The hotel people were anxious. But I wished
                        to come myself. I confess I had a very strong desire to speak to you.”
                    “There seems to be nothing and no one to interfere with it,” said Daphne, in
                        a tone of sarcasm. “I should be glad, however, with your permission, to turn
                        homeward. I see Mrs. Boyson is here. You are, I suppose, on your wedding
                        journey?”
                    He moved out of her path, said a few conventional words, and they walked on.
                        A light wind had risen and the fog was now breaking rapidly. As it gave way,
                        the moonlight poured into the breaches that the wind made; the vast
                        black-and-silver spectacle, the Falls, the gorge, the town opposite, the
                        bridge, the clouds, began to appear in fragments, grandiose and
                        fantastical.
                    Daphne, presently, seeing that Boyson was slow to speak, raised her eyebrows
                        and attempted a remark on the scene. Boyson interrupted her hurriedly.
                    “I imagine, Mrs. Barnes, that what I wish to say will seem to you a piece of
                        insolence. All the same, for the sake of our former friendship, I would ask
                        you to bear with me.”
                    “By all means!”
                    “I had no idea that you were in the hotel. About half an hour ago, on the
                        verandah, I opened an English letter which
                        arrived this evening. The news in it gave me great concern. Then I saw you
                        appear, to my astonishment, in the distance. I asked the hotel manager if it
                        were really you. He was about to send someone after you. An idea occurred to
                        me. I saw my opportunity—and I pursued you.”
                    “And here I am, at your mercy!” said Daphne, with sudden sharpness. “You have
                        left me no choice. However, I am quite willing.”
                    The voice was familiar yet strange. There was in it the indefinable hardening
                        and ageing which seemed to Boyson to have affected the whole personality.
                        What had happened to her? As he looked at her in the dim light there rushed
                        upon them both the memory of those three weeks by the sea-side years before,
                        when he had fallen in love with her, and she had first trifled with, and
                        then repulsed him.
                    “I wished to ask you a question, in the name of our old friendship; and
                        because I have also become a friend—as you know—of your husband.”
                    He felt, rather than saw, the start of anger in the woman beside him.
                    “Captain Boyson! I cannot defend myself, but I would ask you to recognise
                        ordinary courtesies. I have now no husband.”
                    
                    “Of your husband,” he repeated, without hesitation, yet gently. “By the law
                        of England at least, which you accepted, and under which you became a
                        British subject, you are still the wife of Roger Barnes, and he has done
                        nothing whatever to forfeit his right to your wifely care. It is indeed of
                        him and of his present state that I beg to be allowed to speak to you.”
                    He heard a little laugh beside him—unsteady and hysterical.
                    “You beg for what you have already taken. I repeat, I am at your mercy. An
                        American subject, Captain Boyson, knows nothing of the law of England. I
                        have recovered my American citizenship, and the law of my country has freed
                        me from a degrading and disastrous marriage!”
                    “While Roger remains bound? Incapable, at the age of thirty, of marrying
                        again, unless he renounces his country—permanently debarred from home and
                        children!”
                    His pulse ran quick. It was a strange adventure, this, to which he had
                        committed himself!
                    “I have nothing to do with English law, nothing whatever! It is unjust,
                        monstrous. But that was no reason why I, too, should suffer!”
                    “No reason for patience? No reason for pity?” said the man's voice, betraying
                            emotion at last. “Mrs. Barnes, what do
                        you know of Roger's present state?”
                    “I have no need to know anything.”
                    “It matters nothing to you? Nothing to you that he has lost health, and
                        character, and happiness, his child, his home, everything, owing to your
                        action?”
                    “Captain Boyson!” she cried, her composure giving way, “this is intolerable,
                        outrageous! It is humiliating that you should even expect me to argue with
                        you. Yet,” she bit her lip, angry with the agitation that would assail her,
                        “for the sake of our friendship to which you appeal, I would rather not be
                        angry. What you say is monstrous!” her voice shook. “In the first place, I
                        freed myself from a man who married me for money.”
                    “One moment! Do you forget that from the day you left him Roger has never
                        touched a farthing of your money? That he returned everything to you?”
                    “I had nothing to do with that; it was his own folly.”
                    “Yes, but it throws light upon his character. Would a mere fortune-hunter
                        have done it? No, Mrs. Barnes!—that view of Roger does not really convince
                        you, you do not really believe it.”
                    She smiled bitterly.
                    “As it happens, in his letters to me after I left him, he amply confessed
                        it.”
                    
                    “Because his wish was to make peace, to throw himself at your feet. He
                        accused himself, more than was just. But you do not really think him
                        mercenary and greedy, you know that he was neither! Mrs.
                        Barnes, Roger is ill and lonely.”
                    “His mode of life accounts for it.”
                    “You mean that he has begun to drink, has fallen into bad company. That may
                        be true. I cannot deny it. But consider. A man from whom everything is torn
                        at one blow; a man of not very strong character, not accustomed to endure
                        hardness.—Does it never occur to you that you took a frightful
                        responsibility?”
                    “I protected myself—and my child.”
                    He breathed deep.
                    “Or rather—did you murder a life—that God had given you in trust?”
                    He paused, and she paused also, as though held by the power of his will. They
                        were passing along the public garden that borders the road; scents of lilac
                        and fresh leaf floated over the damp grass; the moonlight was growing in
                        strength, and the majesty of the gorge, the roar of the leaping water, all
                        seemed to enter into the moral and human scene, to accent and deepen it.
                    Daphne suddenly clung to a seat beside the path, dropped into it.
                    
                    “Captain Boyson! I—I cannot bear this any longer.”
                    “I will not reproach you any more,” he said, quietly. “I beg your pardon. The
                        past is irrevocable, but the present is here. The man who loved you, the
                        father of your child, is alone, ill, poor, in danger of moral ruin, because
                        of what you have done. I ask you to go to his aid. But first let me tell you
                        exactly what I have just heard from England.” He repeated the greater part
                        of French's letter, so far as it concerned Roger.
                    “He has his mother,” said Daphne, when he paused, speaking with evident
                        physical difficulty.
                    “Lady Barnes I hear had a paralytic stroke two months ago. She is incapable
                        of giving advice or help.”
                    “Of course, I am sorry. But Herbert French—”
                    “No one but a wife could save him—no one!” he repeated with emphasis.
                    “I am not his wife!” she insisted faintly. “I released myself by
                        American law. He is nothing to me.” As she spoke she leant back against the
                        seat and closed her eyes. Boyson saw clearly that excitement and anger had
                        struck down her nervous power, that she might faint or go into hysterics.
                        Yet a man of remarkable courtesy and pitifulness towards women was not thereby moved from his purpose. He
                        had his chance; he could not relinquish it. Only there was something now in
                        her attitude which recalled the young Daphne of years ago; which touched his
                        heart.
                    He sat down beside her.
                    “Bear with me, Mrs. Barnes, for a few moments, while I put it as it appears
                        to another mind. You became first jealous of Roger, for very small reason,
                        then tired of him. Your marriage no longer satisfied you—you resolved to be
                        quit of it; so you appealed to laws of which, as a nation, we are ashamed,
                        which all that is best among us will, before long, rebel against and change.
                        Our State system permits them—America suffers. In this case—forgive me if I
                        put it once more as it appears to me—they have been used to strike at an
                        Englishman who had absolutely no defence, no redress. And now you are free;
                        he remains bound—so long, at least, as you form no other tie. Again I ask
                        you, have you ever let yourself face what it means to a man of thirty to be
                        cut off from lawful marriage and legitimate children?—Mrs. Barnes! you know
                        what a man is, his strength and his weakness. Are you really willing that
                        Roger should sink into degradation in order that you may punish him for some
                        offence to your pride or your feeling? It may be too late! He may, as French
                        fears, have fallen into some fatal
                        entanglement; it may not be possible to restore his health. He may not be
                        able”—he hesitated, then brought the words out firmly—“to forgive you. Or
                        again, French's anxieties about him may be unfounded. But for God's sake go
                        to him! Once on English ground you are his wife again as though nothing had
                        happened. For God's sake put everything aside but the thought of the vow you
                        once made to him! Go back! I implore you, go back! I promise you that no
                        happiness you have ever felt will be equal to the happiness that step would
                        bring you, if only you are permitted to save him.”
                    Daphne was by now shaking from head to foot. The force of feeling which
                        impelled him so mastered her that when he gravely took her hand she did not
                        withdraw it. She had a strange sense of having at last discovered the true
                        self of the quiet, efficient, unpretending man she had known for so long and
                        cast so easily aside. There was shock and excitement in it, as there is in
                        all trials of strength between a man and a woman. She tried to hate and
                        despise him, but she could not achieve it. She longed to answer and crush
                        him, but her mind was a blank, her tongue refused its office. Surprise,
                        resentment, wounded feeling made a tumult and darkness through which she
                        could not find her way.
                    
                    She rose at last painfully from her seat.
                    “This conversation must end,” she said brokenly. “Captain Boyson, I appeal to
                        you as a gentleman, let me go on alone.”
                    He looked at her sadly and stood aside. But as he saw her move uncertainly
                        towards a portion of the road where various trenches and pits made walking
                        difficult, he darted after her.
                    “Please!” he said peremptorily; “this bit is unsafe.”
                    He drew her hand within his arm and guided her. As he did so he saw that she
                        was crying; no doubt, as he rightly guessed, from shaken nerves and wounded
                        pride; for it did not seem to him that she had yielded at all. But this time
                        he felt distress and compunction.
                    “Forgive me!” he said, bending over her. “But think of what I have said—I beg
                        of you! Be kind, be merciful!”
                    She made various attempts to speak, and at last she said, “I bear you no
                        malice. But you don't understand me, you never have.”
                    He offered no reply. They had reached the courtyard of the hotel. Daphne
                        withdrew her hand. When she reached the steps she preceded him without
                        looking back, and was soon lost to sight.
                    Boyson shook his head, lit a cigar, and spent some time longer pacing up and
                        down the verandah. When he went to his
                        wife's room he found her asleep, a vision of soft youth and charm. He stood
                        a few moments looking down upon her, wondering in himself at what he had
                        done. Yet he knew very well that it was the stirring and deepening of his
                        whole being produced by love that had impelled him to do it.
                    Next morning he told his wife.
                    “Do you suppose I produced any effect?” he asked her anxiously.
                        “If she really thinks over what I said, she must be touched!
                        unless she's made of flint. I said all the wrong things—but I
                            did rub it in.”
                    “I'm sure you did,” said his wife, smiling. Then she looked at him with a
                        critical tenderness.
                    “You dear optimist!” she cried, and slipped her hand into his.
                    “That means you think I behaved like a fool, and that my appeal won't move
                        her in the least?”
                    The face beside him saddened.
                    “Dear, dear optimist!” she repeated, and pressed his hand. He urged an
                        explanation of her epithet. But she only said, thoughtfully:
                    “You took a great responsibility!”
                    “Towards her?”
                    She shook her head.
                    “No—towards him!”
                    
                    Meanwhile Daphne was watching beside a death-bed. On her return from her walk
                        she had been met by the news of fresh and grave symptoms in Mrs. Verrier's
                        case. A Boston doctor arrived the following morning. The mortal disease
                        which had attacked her about a year before this date had entered, so he
                        reported, on its last phase. He talked of a few days—possibly hours.
                    The Boysons departed, having left cards of inquiry and sympathy, of which
                        Mrs. Floyd took no notice. Then for Daphne there followed a nightmare of
                        waiting and pain. She loved Madeleine Verrier, as far as she was capable of
                        love, and she jealously wished to be all in all to her in these last hours.
                        She would have liked to feel that it was she who had carried her friend
                        through them; who had nobly sustained her in the dolorous pass. To have been
                        able to feel this would have been as balm moreover to a piteously wounded
                        self-love, to a smarting and bitter recollection, which would not let her
                        rest.
                    But in these last days Madeleine escaped her altogether. A thin-faced priest
                        arrived, the same who had been visiting the invalid at intervals for a month
                        or two. Mrs. Verrier was received into the Roman Catholic Church; she made
                        her first confession and communion; she saw her mother for a short, final
                            interview, and her little girl; and
                        the physical energy required for these acts exhausted her small store.
                        Whenever Daphne entered her room Madeleine received her tenderly; but she
                        could speak but little, and Daphne felt herself shut out and ignored. What
                        she said or thought was no longer, it seemed, of any account. She resented
                        and despised Madeleine's surrender to what she held to be a decaying
                        superstition; and her haughty manner towards the mild Oratorian whom she met
                        occasionally on the stairs, or in the corridor, expressed her disapproval.
                        But it was impossible to argue with a dying woman. She suffered in
                        silence.
                    As she sat beside the patient, in the hours of narcotic sleep when she
                        relieved one of the nurses, she went often through times of great
                        bitterness. She could not forgive the attack Captain Boyson had made upon
                        her; yet she could not forget it. It had so far roused her moral sense that
                        it led her to a perpetual brooding over the past, a perpetual re-statement
                        of her own position. She was most troubled, often, by certain episodes in
                        the past, of which, she supposed, Alfred Boyson knew least; the corrupt use
                        she had made of her money; the false witnesses she had paid for; the bribes
                        she had given. At the time it had seemed to her all part of the campaign, in
                        the day's work. She had found herself in a milieu that 
                            demoral-
                            demoralised
                         ised her; her mind had become
                        like “the dyer's hand, subdued to what it worked in.” Now, she found herself
                        thinking in a sudden terror, “If Alfred Boyson knew so and so!” or, as she
                        looked down on Madeleine's dying face, “Could I even tell Madeleine that?”
                        And then would come the dreary thought, “I shall never tell her anything any
                        more. She is lost to me—even before death.”
                    She tried to avoid thinking of Roger; but the memory of the scene with Alfred
                        Boyson did, in truth, bring him constantly before her. An inner debate
                        began, from which she could not escape. She grew white and ill with it. If
                        she could have rushed away from it into the full stream of life, have thrown
                        herself into meetings and discussion, have resumed her place as the admired
                        and flattered head of a particular society, she could easily have crushed
                        and silenced the thoughts which tormented her.
                    But she was held fast. She could not desert Madeleine Verrier in death; she
                        could not wrench her own hand from this frail hand which clung to it; even
                        though Madeleine had betrayed the common cause, had yielded at last to that
                        moral and spiritual cowardice which—as all freethinkers know—has spoiled and
                        clouded so many death-beds. Daphne—the skimmer of many books—remembered how
                            Renan—sain et sauf—had sent a
                        challenge to his own end, and, defying the
                        possible weakness of age and sickness, had demanded to be judged by the
                        convictions of life, and not by the terrors of death. She tried to fortify
                        her own mind by the recollection.
                    The first days of June broke radiantly over the great gorge and the woods
                        which surround it. One morning, early, between four and five o'clock, Daphne
                        came in, to find Madeleine awake and comparatively at ease. Yet the
                        preceding twenty-four hours had been terrible, and her nurses knew that the
                        end could not be far off.
                    The invalid had just asked that her couch might be drawn as near to the
                        window as possible, and she lay looking towards the dawn, which rose in
                        fresh and windless beauty over the town opposite and the white splendour of
                        the Falls. The American Fall was still largely in shadow; but the light
                        struck on the fresh green of Goat Island and leapt in tongues of fire along
                        the edge of the Horseshoe, turning the rapids above it to flame and sending
                        shafts into the vast tower of spray that holds the centre of the curve.
                        Nature was all youth, glitter and delight; summer was rushing on the gorge;
                        the mingling of wood and water was at its richest and noblest.
                    Madeleine turned her face towards the gorge, her wasted hands clasped on her breast. She beckoned Daphne with a smile,
                        and Daphne knelt down beside her.
                    “The water!” said the whispering voice; “it was once so terrible. I am not
                        afraid—now.”
                    “No, darling. Why should you be?”
                    “I know now, I shall see him again.”
                    Daphne was silent.
                    “I hoped it, but I couldn't be certain. That was so awful. Now—I am
                        certain.”
                    “Since you became a Catholic?”
                    She made a sign of assent.
                    “I couldn't be uncertain—I couldn't!” she added with fervour,
                        looking strangely at Daphne. And Daphne understood that no voice less
                        positive or self-confident than that of Catholicism, no religion less well
                        provided with tangible rites and practices, could have lifted from the
                        spirit the burden of that remorse which had yet killed the body.
                    A little later Madeleine drew her down again.
                    “I couldn't talk, Daphne—I was afraid; but I've written to you, just bit by
                        bit, as I had strength. Oh, Daphne—!”
                    Then voice and strength failed her. Her eyes piteously followed her friend
                        for a little, and then closed.
                    She lingered through the day; and at night,
                        when the June starlight was on the gorge, she passed away, with the voice of
                        the Falls in her dying ears. A tragic beauty—“beauty born of murmuring
                        sound”—had passed into her face; and that great plunge of many waters, which
                        had been to her in life the symbol of anguish and guilt, had become in some
                        mysterious way the comforter of her pain, the friend of her last sleep.
                    A letter was found for Daphne in the little box beside her bed.
                    It ran thus:
                    “DAPHNE, DARLING,—It was I who first taught you that we may follow our own
                        lawless wills, and that marriage is something we may bend or break as we
                        will. But, oh! it is not so. Marriage is mysterious and wonderful; it is the
                        supreme test of men and women. If we wrong it, and despise it, we mutilate
                        the divine in ourselves.
                    “Oh, Daphne! it is a small thing to say, ‘Forgive!’ Yet it means the whole
                        world.
                    “And you can still say it to the living. It has been my anguish that I could
                        only say it to the dead. Daphne, good-bye! I have fought a long, long fight,
                        but God is Master—I bless—I adore—”
                    Daphne sat staring at the letter through a
                        mist of unwilling tears. All its phrases, ideas, preconceptions, were
                        unwelcome, unreal to her, though she knew they had been real to
                        Madeleine.
                    Yet the compulsion of the dead was upon her, and of her scene with Boyson.
                        What they asked of her—Madeleine and Alfred Boyson—was of course out of the
                        question; the mere thought of that humiliating word “forgiveness” sent a
                        tingle of passion through her. But was there no third course?—something
                        which might prove to all the world how full of resource and generosity a
                        woman may be?
                    She pondered through some sleepless hours; and at last she saw her way
                        plain.
                    Within a week she had left New York for Europe.
                
                
                    
                    CHAPTER XII
                    THE ship on which Daphne travelled had covered about half
                        her course. On a certain June evening Mrs. Floyd, walking up and down the
                        promenade deck, found her attention divided between two groups of her
                        fellow-travellers—one taking exercise on the same deck as herself; the
                        other, a family party, on the steerage deck, on which many persons in the
                        first class paused to look down with sympathy as they reached the dividing
                        rail aft.
                    The group on the promenade deck consisted of a lady and gentleman, and a boy
                        of seven. The elders walked rapidly, holding themselves stiffly erect, and
                        showing no sign of acquaintance with anyone on board. The child dragged
                        himself wearily along behind them, looking sometimes from side to side at
                        the various people passing by, with eyes no less furtive than his mother's.
                        She was a tall and handsome woman, with extravagantly marine clothes and
                        much false hair. Her companion, a bulky and ill-favoured man, glanced
                        superciliously at the ladies in the deck chairs, bestowing always a more
                        attentive scrutiny than usual on a very
                        pretty girl, who was lying reading midway down, with a white lace scarf
                        draped round her beautiful hair and the harmonious oval of her face. Daphne,
                        watching him, remembered that she had seen him speaking to the girl—who was
                        travelling alone—on one or two occasions. For the rest, they were a
                        notorious couple. The woman had been twice divorced, after misdoings which
                        had richly furnished the newspapers; the man belonged to a financial class
                        with which reputable men of business associate no more than they are
                        obliged. The ship left them severely alone; and they retaliated by a manner
                        clearly meant to say that they didn't care a brass farthing for the
                        ship.
                    The group on the steerage deck was of a very different kind. It was made up
                        of a consumptive wife, a young husband and one or two children. The wife's
                        malady, recently declared, had led to their being refused admission to the
                        States. They had been turned back from the emigrant station on Ellis Island,
                        and were now sadly returning to Liverpool. But the courage of the young and
                        sweet-faced mother, the devotion of her Irish husband, the charm of her
                        dark-eyed children, had roused much feeling in an idle ship, ready for
                        emotion. There had been a collection for them among the passengers; a
                        Liverpool shipowner, in the first class,
                        had promised work to the young man on landing; the mother was to be sent to
                        a sanatorium; the children cared for during her absence. The family made a
                        kind of nucleus round which whatever humanity—or whatever imitation of
                        it—there was on board might gather and crystallise. There were other
                        mournful cases indeed to be studied on the steerage deck, but none in which
                        misfortune was so attractive.
                    As she walked up and down, or sat in the tea-room catching fragments of the
                        conversation round her, Daphne was often secretly angered by the public
                        opinion she perceived, favourable in the one case, hostile in the other. How
                        ignorant and silly it was—this public opinion! As to herself, she was soon
                        aware that a few people on board had identified her and communicated their
                        knowledge to others. On the whole, she felt herself treated with deference.
                        Her own version of her story was clearly accepted, at least by the majority;
                        some showed her an unspoken but evident sympathy, while her wealth made her
                        generally interesting. Yet there were two or three in whom she felt or
                        fancied a more critical attitude; who looked at her coolly, and seemed to
                        avoid her. Bostonian Pharisees, no doubt!—ignorant of all those great
                        expansions of the female destiny that were going forward.
                    
                    The fact was—she admitted it—that she was abnormally sensitive. These moral
                        judgments, of different sorts, of which she was conscious, floating as it
                        were in the life around her, which her mind isolated and magnified, found
                        her smarting and sore, and would not let her be. Her irritable pride was
                        touched at every turn; she hardly knew why. She was not to be judged by
                        anybody; she was her own defender and her own judge. If she was no longer a
                        symbolic and sympathetic figure—like that young mother among her
                        children—she had her own claims. In the secrecy of the mind she fiercely set
                        them out.
                    The days passed, however, and as she neared the English shores her resistance
                        to a pursuing thought became fainter. It was, of course, Boyson's
                        astonishing appeal to her that had let loose the Avenging Goddesses. She
                        repelled them with scorn; yet all the same they hurtled round her. After
                        all, she was no monster. She had done a monstrous thing in a sudden
                        brutality of egotism; and a certain crude state of law and opinion had
                        helped her to do it, had confused the moral values and falsified her
                        conscience. But she was not yet brutalised. Moreover, do what she would, she
                        was still in a world governed by law; a world at the heart of which broods a
                        power austere and immutable; a power which man did not make, which, if he clash with it, grinds him to powder.
                        Its manifestations in Daphne's case were slight, but enough. She was not
                        happy, that certainly was clear. She did not suppose she ever would be happy
                        again. Whatever it was—just, heroic, or the reverse—the action by which she
                        had violently changed her life had not been a success, estimated by results.
                        No other man had attracted her since she had cast Roger off; her youth
                        seemed to be deserting her; she saw herself in the glass every morning with
                        discontent, even a kind of terror; she had lost her child. And in these
                        suspended hours of the voyage, when life floats between sky and sea, amid
                        the infinity of waves, all that she had been doing since the divorce, her
                        public “causes” and triumphs, the adulations with which she had been
                        surrounded, began to seem to her barren and futile. No, she was not happy;
                        what she had done had not answered; and she knew it.
                    One night, a night of calm air and silvery sea, she hung over the ship's
                        side, dreaming rather miserably. The ship, aglow with lights, alive with
                        movement, with talk, laughter and music, glided on between the stars and the
                        unfathomable depths of the mid-Atlantic. Nothing, to north and south,
                        between her and the poles; nothing but a few feet of iron and timber between her and the hungry gulfs in which
                        the highest Alp would sink from sight. The floating palace, hung by
                        Knowledge above Death, just out of Death's reach, suggested to her a number
                        of melancholy thoughts and images. A touch of more than Arctic cold stole
                        upon her, even through this loveliness of a summer night; she felt
                        desperately unhappy and alone.
                    From the saloon came a sound of singing 
                            “An die Lippen wollt' ich pressen
                            Deine kleine weisse Hand,
                            Und mit Thränen sie benetzen
                            Deine kleine weisse Hand.”
                         The tears came to her eyes. She remembered that she, too, had once felt
                        the surrender and the tenderness of love.
                    Then she brushed the tears away, angry with herself and determined to brood
                        no more. But she looked round her in vain for a companion who might distract
                        her. She had made no friends on board, and though she had brought with her a
                        secretary and a maid, she kept them both at arm's length, and they never
                        offered their society without an invitation.
                    What was she going to do? And why was she making this journey?
                    Because the injustice and absurdity of
                        English law had distorted and besmirched her own perfectly legitimate
                        action. They had given a handle to such harsh critics as Alfred Boyson. But
                        she meant somehow to put herself right; and not only herself, but the great
                        cause of woman's freedom and independence. No woman, in the better future
                        that is coming, shall be forced either by law or opinion to continue the
                        relations of marriage with a man she has come to despise. Marriage is merely
                        proclaimed love; and if love fails, marriage has no further meaning or
                            raison d'être: it comes, or should
                        come, automatically to an end. This is the first article in the woman's
                        charter, and without it marriage itself has neither value nor sanctity. She
                        seemed to hear sentences of this sort, in her own voice, echoing about windy
                        halls, producing waves of emotion on a sea of strained faces—women's faces,
                        set and pale, like that of Madeleine Verrier. She had never actually made
                        such a speech, but she felt she would like to have made it.
                    What was she going to do? No doubt Roger would resent her coming—would
                        probably refuse to see her, as she had once refused to see him. Well, she
                        must try and act with dignity and common sense; she must try and persuade
                        him to recognise her good faith, and to get him to listen to what she
                        proposed. She had her plan for Roger's reclamation, and was already in love with it. Naturally, she had never
                        meant permanently to hurt or injure Roger! She had done it for his good as
                        well as her own. Yet even as she put this plea forward in the inner tribunal
                        of consciousness, she knew that it was false.
                    “You have murdered a life!” Well, that was what prejudiced and
                        hide-bound persons like Alfred Boyson said, and no doubt always would say.
                        She could not help it; but for her own dignity's sake, that moral dignity in
                        which she liked to feel herself enwrapped, she would give as little excuse
                        for it as possible.
                    Then, as she stood looking eastward, a strange thought struck her. Once on
                        that farther shore and she would be Roger's wife again—an English subject,
                        and Roger's wife. How ridiculous, and how intolerable! When shall we see
                        some real comity of nations in these matters of international marriage and
                        divorce?
                    She had consulted her lawyers in New York before starting; on Roger's
                        situation first of all, but also on her own. Roger, it seemed, might take
                        certain legal steps, once he was aware of her being again on English ground.
                        But, of course, he would not take them. “It was never me he cared for—only
                        Beatty!” she said to herself with a bitter perversity. Still the thought of
                        returning within the range of the old
                        obligations, the old life, affected her curiously. There were hours,
                        especially at night, when she felt shut up with thoughts of Roger and
                        Beatty—her husband and her child—just as of old.
                    How, in the name of justice, was she to blame for Roger's illness? Her
                        irritable thoughts made a kind of grievance against him of the attack of
                        pneumonia which she was told had injured his health. He must have neglected.
                        himself in some foolish way. The strongest men are the most reckless of
                        themselves. In any case, how was it her fault?
                    One night she woke up suddenly, in the dawn, her heart beating tumultuously.
                        She had been dreaming of her meeting—her possible meeting—with Roger. Her
                        face was flushed, her memory confused. She could not recall the exact words
                        or incidents of the dream, only that Roger had been in some way terrible and
                        terrifying.
                    And as she sat up in her berth, trying to compose herself, she recalled the
                        last time she had seen him at Philadelphia—a painful scene—and his last
                        broken words to her, as he turned back from the door to speak them:—
                    “As to Beatty, I hold you responsible! She is my child, no less than yours.
                        You shall answer to me! Remember that!”
                    Answer to him? Beatty was dead—in spite of
                        all that love and science could do. Involuntarily she began to weep as she
                        remembered the child's last days; the little choked cry, once or twice, for
                        “Daddy!” followed, so long as life maintained its struggle, by a childish
                        anger that he did not come. And then the silencing of the cry, and the last
                        change and settling in the small face, so instinct already with feeling and
                        character, so prophetic of the woman to be.
                    A grief, of course, never to be got over; but for which she, Daphne, deserved
                        pity and tenderness, not reproaches. She hardened herself to meet the coming
                        trial.
                    She arrived in London in the first week of July, and her first act was to
                        post a letter to Herbert French, addressed to his East-End vicarage, a
                        letter formally expressed and merely asking him to give the writer “twenty
                        minutes' conversation on a subject of common interest to us both.” The
                        letter was signed “Daphne Floyd,” and a stamped envelope addressed to “Mrs.
                        Floyd” was enclosed. By return of post she received a letter from a person
                        unknown to her, the curate, apparently, in charge of Mr. French's parish.
                        The letter informed her that her own communication had not been forwarded,
                        as Mr. French had gone away for a holiday after a threat of nervous
                            breakdown in consequence of overwork;
                        and business letters and interviews were being spared him as much as
                        possible. “He is, however, much better, I am glad to say, and if the subject
                        on which you wish to speak to him is really urgent, his present address is
                        Prospect House, St. Damian's, Ventnor. But unless it is urgent it would be a
                        kindness not to trouble him with it until he returns to town, which will not
                        be for another fortnight.”
                    Daphne walked restlessly up and down her hotel sitting-room. Of course the
                        matter was urgent. The health of an East-End clergyman—already, it appeared,
                        much amended—was not likely to seem of much importance to a woman of her
                        temperament, when it stood in the way of her plans.
                    But she would not write, she would go. She had good reason to suppose that
                        Herbert French would not welcome a visit from her; he might indeed very
                        easily use his health as an excuse for not seeing her. But she must see
                        him.
                    By mid-day she was already on her way to the Isle of Wight. About five
                        o'clock she arrived at Ventnor, where she deposited maid and luggage. She
                        then drove out alone to St. Damian's, a village a few miles north, through a
                        radiant evening. The twinkling sea was alive with craft of all sizes, from
                        the great liner leaving its trail of smoke
                        along the horizon, to the white-sailed yachts close upon the land. The woods
                        of the Undercliff sank softly to the blues and purple, the silver streaks
                        and gorgeous shadows of the sea floor. The lights were broad and rich. After
                        a hot day, coolness had come and the air was delightful.
                    But Daphne sat erect, noticing nothing but the relief of the lowered
                        temperature after her hot and tiresome journey. She applied herself
                        occasionally to natural beauty, as she applied herself to music or
                        literature; but it is not to women of her type that the true passion of
                        it—“the soul's bridegroom”—comes. And she was absorbed in thinking how she
                        should open her business to Herbert French.
                    Prospect House turned out to be a detached villa standing in a garden, with a
                        broad view of the Channel. Daphne sent her carriage back to the inn and
                        climbed the steep drive which led up to the verandahed house. The front
                        garden was empty, but voices—voices, it seemed, of children—came from behind
                        the house where there was a grove of trees.
                    “Is Mr. Herbert French at home?” she asked of the maid who answered her
                        bell.
                    The girl looked at her doubtfully.
                    “Yes, ma'am—but he doesn't see visitors yet. Shall I tell Mrs. French? She's
                        in the garden with the children.”
                    
                    “No, thank you,” said Daphne, firmly. “It's Mr. French I have come to see,
                        and I am sure that he will wish to see me. Will you kindly give him my card?
                        I will come in and wait.”
                    And she brushed past the maid, who was intimidated by the visitor's
                        fashionable dress and by the drooping feathers of her Paris hat, in which
                        the sharp olive-skinned face with its magnificent eyes was picturesquely
                        framed. The girl gave way unwillingly, showed Mrs. Floyd into a small study
                        looking on the front garden, and left her.
                    “Elsie!” cried Herbert French, springing from the low chair in which he had
                        been lounging in his shirt-sleeves with a book when the parlour-maid found
                        him, “Elsie!”
                    His wife, who was at the other end of the lawn, playing with the children,
                        the boy on her back and a pair of girl twins clinging to her skirts, turned
                        in astonishment and hurried back to him.
                    “Mrs. Floyd?” They both looked at the card in bewilderment. “Who is it? Mrs.
                        Floyd?”
                    Then French's face changed.
                    “What is this lady like?” he asked peremptorily of the parlour-maid.
                    “Well, sir, she's a dark lady, dressed very smart—”
                    
                    “Has she very black eyes?”
                    “Oh, yes, sir!”
                    “Young?”
                    The girl promptly replied in the negative, qualifying it a moment afterwards
                        by a perplexed “Well, I shouldn't say so, sir.”
                    French thought a moment.
                    “Thank you. I will come in.”
                    He turned to his wife with a rapid question, under his breath. “Where is
                        Roger?”
                    Elsie stared at him, her colour paling.
                    “Herbert!—it can't—it can't—”
                    “I suspect it is—Mrs. Barnes,” said French slowly. “Help me on with my coat,
                        darling. Now then, what shall we do?”
                    “She can't have come to force herself on him!” cried his wife
                        passionately.
                    “Probably she knows nothing of his being here. Did he go for a walk?”
                    “Yes, towards Sandown. But he will be back directly.”
                    A quick shade of expression crossed French's face, which his wife knew to
                        mean that whenever Roger was out by himself there was cause for anxiety. But
                        the familiar trouble was immediately swallowed up in the new and pressing
                        one.
                    “What can that woman have come to say?” he asked, half of himself, half of
                        his wife, as he walked slowly back to the house. Elsie had conveyed the children to their nurse, and was
                        beside him.
                    “Perhaps she repents!” The tone was dry and short; it flung a challenge to
                        misdoing.
                    “I doubt it! But Roger?” French stood still, pondering. “Keep him,
                        darling—intercept him if you can. If he must see her, I will come out. But
                        we mustn't risk a shock.”
                    They consulted a little in low voices. Then French went into the house and
                        Elsie came back to her children. She stood thinking, her fine face, so
                        open-browed and purely lined, frowning and distressed.
                    “You wished to see me, Mrs. Barnes?”
                    French had closed the door of the study behind him and stood without offering
                        to shake hands with his visitor, coldly regarding her.
                    Daphne rose from her seat, reddening involuntarily.
                    “My name is no longer what you once knew it, Mr. French. I sent you my
                        card.”
                    French made a slight inclination and pointed to the chair from which she had
                        risen.
                    “Pray sit down. May I know what has brought you here?”
                    Daphne resumed her seat, her small hands fidgeting on her parasol.
                    
                    “I wished to come and consult with you, Mr. French. I had heard a distressing
                        account of—of Roger, from a friend in America.”
                    “I see,” said French, on whom a sudden light dawned. “You met Boyson at
                        Niagara—that I knew—and you are here because of what he said to you?”
                    “Yes, partly.” The speaker looked round the room, biting her lip, and French
                        observed her for a moment. He remembered the foreign vivacity and dash, the
                        wilful grace of her youth, and marvelled at her stiffened, pretentious air,
                        her loss of charm. Instinctively the saint in him knew from the mere look of
                        her that she had been feeding herself on egotisms and falsehoods, and his
                        heart hardened. Daphne resumed:
                    “If Captain Boyson has given you an account of our interview, Mr. French, it
                        was probably a one-sided one. However, that is not the point.
                        He did distress me very much by his account, which I gather
                        came from you—of—of Roger, and although, of course, it is a very awkward
                        matter for me to move in, I still felt impelled for old times' sake to come
                        over and see whether I could not help you—and his other friends—and, of
                        course, his mother—”
                    “His mother is out of the question,” interrupted French. “She is, I am sorry
                        to say, a helpless invalid.”
                    “Is it really as bad as that? I hoped for
                        better news. Then I apply to you—to you chiefly. Is there anything that I
                        could do to assist you, or others, to—”
                    “To save him?” French put in the words as she hesitated.
                    Daphne was silent.
                    “What is your idea?” asked French, after a moment. “You heard, I presume,
                        from Captain Boyson that my wife and I were extremely anxious about Roger's
                        ways and habits; that we cannot induce him, or, at any rate, we have not yet
                        been able to induce him, to give up drinking; that his health is extremely
                        bad, and that we are sometimes afraid that there is now some secret in his
                        life of which he is ashamed?”
                    “Yes,” said Daphne, fidgeting with a book on the table. “Yes, that is what I
                        heard.”
                    “And you have come to suggest something?”
                    “Is there no way by which Roger can become as free as I now am!” she said
                        suddenly, throwing back her head.
                    “By which Roger can obtain his divorce from you—and marry again? None, in
                        English law.”
                    “But there is—in Colonial law.” She began to speak hurriedly and urgently.
                        “If Roger were to go to New Zealand, or to Australia, he could, after a
                        time, get a divorce for desertion. I know
                        he could—I have inquired. It doesn't seem to be certain what effect my
                        action—the American decree, I mean—would have in an English colony. My
                        lawyers are going into it. But at any rate there is the desertion. And
                        then”—she grew more eager—“if he married abroad—in the Colony—the marriage
                        would be valid. No one could say a word to him when he returned to
                        England.”
                    French looked at her in silence. She went on—with the unconscious manner of
                        one accustomed to command her world, to be the oracle and guide of
                        subordinates:—
                    “Could we not induce him to go? Could you not? Very likely he would refuse to
                        see me; and, of course, he has, most unjustly to me, I think,
                        refused to take any money from me. But the money might be provided without
                        his knowing where it came from. A young doctor might be sent with him—some
                        nice fellow who would keep him amused and look after him. At Heston he used
                        to take a great interest in farming. He might take up land. I would pay
                        anything—anything! He might suppose it came from some friend.”
                    French smiled sadly. His eyes were on the ground. She bent forward.
                    “I beg of you, Mr. French, not to set yourself against me! Of course”—she
                        drew herself up proudly—“I know what you must think of my action. Our views are different,
                        irreconcilably different. You probably think all divorce wrong. We think, in
                        America, that a marriage which has become a burden to either party is no
                        marriage, and ought to cease. But that, of course”—she waved a rhetorical
                        hand—“we cannot discuss. I do not propose for a moment to discuss it. You
                        must allow me my national point of view. But surely we can, putting all that
                        aside, combine to help Roger?”
                    “To marry again?” said French, slowly. “It can't, I fear, be done—what you
                        propose—in the time. I doubt whether Roger has two years to live.”
                    Daphne started.
                    “Roger!—to live?” she repeated, in horror. “What is really the matter? Surely
                        nothing more than care and a voyage could set right?”
                    French shook his head.
                    “We have been anxious about him for some time. That terrible attack of septic
                        pneumonia in New York, as we now know, left the heart injured and the lungs
                        weakened. He was badly nursed, and his state of mind at the time—his misery
                        and loneliness—left him little chance. Then the drinking habit, which he
                        contracted during those wretched months in the States, has been of course
                        sorely against him. However, we hoped against hope —Elsie and I—till a few weeks ago. Then someone,
                        we don't know who, made him go to a specialist, and the verdict is—phthisis;
                        not very advanced, but certain and definite. And the general outlook is not
                        favourable.”
                    Daphne had grown pale.
                    “We must send him away!” she said imperiously. “We must! A voyage, a good
                        doctor, a dry climate, would save him, of course they would! Why, there is
                        nothing necessarily fatal now in phthisis! Nothing! It is absurd to talk as
                        though there were.”
                    Again French looked at her in silence. But as she had lost colour, he had
                        gained it. His face, which the East End had already stamped, had grown rosy,
                        his eyes sparkled.
                    “Oh, do say something! Tell me what you suggest?” cried Daphne.
                    “Do you really wish me to tell you what I suggest?”
                    Daphne waited, her eyes first imploring, then beginning to shrink. He bent
                        forward and touched her on the arm.
                    “Go, Mrs. Barnes, and ask your husband's forgiveness! What will come of it I
                        do not know. But you, at least, will have done something to set yourself
                        right—with God.”
                    The Christian and the priest had spoken; the low voice in its intensity had
                        seemed to ring through the quiet sun-flooded room. Daphne rose, trembling with resentment and
                        antagonism.
                    “It is you, then, Mr. French, who make it impossible for me to discuss—to
                        help. I shall have to see if I can find some other means of carrying out my
                        purpose.”
                    There was a voice outside. Daphne turned.
                    “Who is that?”
                    French ran to the glass door that opened on to the verandah, and, trying for
                        an ordinary tone, waved somebody back who was approaching from without.
                        Elsie came quickly round the corner of the house, calling to the
                        newcomer.
                    But Daphne saw who it was and took her own course. She, too, went to the
                        window, and, passing French, she stepped into the verandah.
                    “Roger!”
                    A man hurried through the dusk. There was an exclamation, a silence. By this
                        time French was on the lawn, his wife's quivering hand in his. Daphne
                        retreated slowly into the study and Roger Barnes followed her.
                    “Leave them alone,” said French, and putting an arm round his wife he led her
                        resolutely away, out of sound and sight.
                    Barnes stood silent, breathing heavily and leaning on the back of a chair.
                        The western light from a side window
                        struck full on him. But Daphne, the wave of excitement spent, was not
                        looking at him. She had fallen upon a sofa, her face was in her hands.
                    “What do you want with me?” said Roger at last. Then, in a sudden heat, “By
                        God, I never wished to see you again!”
                    Daphne's muffled voice came through her fingers:
                    “I know that. You needn't tell me so!”
                    Roger turned away.
                    “You'll admit it's an intrusion?” he said fiercely. “I don't see what you and
                        I have got to do with each other now.”
                    Daphne struggled for self-control. After all, she had always managed him in
                        the old days. She would manage him now.
                    “Roger—I—I didn't come to discuss the past. That's done with. But—I heard
                        things about you—that—”
                    “You didn't like?” he laughed. “I'm sorry, but I don't see what you have to
                        do with them.”
                    Daphne's hand fidgeted with her dress, her eyes still cast down.
                    “Couldn't we talk without bitterness? Just for ten minutes? It was from
                        Captain Boyson that I heard—”
                    “Oh, Boyson, was that it? And he got his information from French—poor old
                            Herbert. Well, it's quite true. I'm no
                        longer fit for your—or his—or anybody's society.”
                    He threw himself into an armchair, calmly took a cigarette out of a box that
                        lay near, and lit it. Daphne at last ventured to look at him. The first and
                        dominant impression was of something shrunken and diminished. His blue
                        flannel suit hung loose on his shoulders and chest, his athlete's limbs. His
                        features had been thinned and graved and scooped by fever and broken nights;
                        all the noble line and proportion was still there, but for one who had known
                        him of old the effect was no longer beautiful but ghastly. Daphne stared at
                        him in dismay.
                    He on his side observed his visitor, but with a cooler curiosity. Like French
                        he noticed the signs of change, the dying down of brilliance and of bloom.
                        To go your own way, as Daphne had done, did not seem to conduce to a woman's
                        good looks.
                    At last he threw in a dry interrogation:
                    “Well?”
                    “I came to try and help you,” Daphne broke out, turning her head away, “to
                        ask Mr. French what I could do. It made me unhappy—”
                    “Did it?” He laughed again. “I don't see why. Oh, you needn't trouble
                        yourself. Elsie and Herbert are awfully good to me. They're all I want, or at any rate,” he hesitated
                        a moment, “they're all I shall want—from now on. Anyway, you
                        know there'd be something grotesque in your trying your hand at reforming
                        me.”
                    “I didn't mean anything of the kind!” she protested, stung by his tone. “I—I
                        wanted to suggest something practical—some way by which you might—release
                        yourself from me—and also recover your health.”
                    “Release myself from you?” he repeated. “That's easier said than done. Did
                        you mean to send me to the Colonies—was that your idea?”
                    His smile was hard to bear. But she went on, choking, yet determined:
                    “That seems to be the only way—in English law. Why shouldn't you take it? The
                        voyage, the new climate, would probably set you up again. You need only be
                        away a short time.”
                    He looked at her in silence a moment, fingering his cigarette.
                    “Thank you,” he said at last, “thank you. And I suppose you offered us money?
                        You told Herbert you would pay all expenses? Oh, don't be angry! I didn't
                        mean anything uncivil. But,” he raised himself with energy from his lounging
                        position, “at the same time, perhaps you ought to know that I would sooner
                        die a thousand times over than take a single silver sixpence that belonged
                        to you!”
                    
                    Their eyes met, his quite calm, hers sparkling with resentment and pain.
                    “Of course I can't argue with you if you meet me in that tone,” she said
                        passionately. “But I should have thought—”
                    “Besides,” he interrupted her, “you say it is the only way. You are quite
                        mistaken. It is not the only way. As far as freeing me goes, you could
                        divorce me to-morrow—here—if you liked. I have been unfaithful to you. A
                        strange way of putting it—at the present moment—between you and me! But
                        that's how it would appear in the English courts. And as to the
                        ‘cruelty’—that wouldn't give you any trouble!”
                    Daphne had flushed deeply. It was only by a great effort that she maintained
                        her composure. Her eyes avoided him.
                    “Mrs. Fairmile?” she said in a low voice.
                    He threw back his head with a sound of scorn.
                    “Mrs. Fairmile! You don't mean to tell me, Daphne, to my face, that you ever
                        believed any of the lies—forgive the expression—that you, and your
                        witnesses, and your lawyers, told in the States—that you bribed those
                        precious newspapers to tell?”
                    “Of course I believed it!” she said fiercely. “And as for lies, it was you
                        who began them.”
                    
                    “You believed that I had betrayed you with Chloe Fairmile?” He
                        raised himself again, fixing his strange deep-set gaze upon her.
                    “I never said—”
                    “No! To that length you didn't quite go. I admit it. You were able to get
                        your way without it.” He sank back in his chair again. “No, my remark had
                        nothing to do with Chloe. I have never set eyes on her since I left you at
                        Heston. But—there was a girl, a shop-girl, a poor little thing, rather
                        pretty. I came across her about six months ago—it doesn't matter how. She
                        loves me, she was awfully good to me, a regular little brick. Some day I
                        shall tell Herbert all about her—not yet—though, of course, he suspects.
                        She'd serve your purpose, if you thought it worth while. But you won't—”
                    “You're—living with her—now?”
                    “No. I broke with her a fortnight ago, after I'd seen those doctors. She made
                        me see them, poor little soul. Then I went to say goodbye to her, and she,”
                        his voice shook a little, “she took it hard. But it's all right. I'm not
                        going to risk her life, or saddle her with a dying man. She's with her
                        sister. She'll get over it.”
                    He turned his head towards the window, his eyes pursued the white sails on
                        the darkening blue outside.
                    “It's been a bad business, but it wasn't
                        altogether my fault. I saved her from someone else, and she saved me, once
                        or twice, from blowing my brains out.”
                    “What did the doctors say to you?” asked Daphne, brusquely, after a
                        pause.
                    “They gave me about two years,” he said, indifferently, turning to knock off
                        the end of his cigarette. “That doesn't matter.” Then, as his eyes caught
                        her face, a sudden animation sprang into his. He drew his chair nearer to
                        her and threw away his cigarette. “Look here, Daphne, don't let's waste
                        time. We shall never see each other again, and there are a number of things
                        I want to know. Tell me everything you can remember about Beatty that last
                        six months—and about her illness, you understand—never mind repeating what
                        you told Boyson, and he told me. But there's lots more, there must be. Did
                        she ever ask for me? Boyson said you couldn't remember. But you must
                        remember!”
                    He came closer still, his threatening eyes upon her. And as he did so, the
                        dark presence of ruin and death, of things damning and irrevocable, which
                        had been hovering over their conversation, approached with him—flapped their
                        sombre wings in Daphne's face. She trembled all over.
                    “Yes,” she said, faintly, “she did ask for you.”
                    
                    “Ah!” He gave a cry of delight. “Tell me—tell me at once—everything—from the
                        beginning!”
                    And held by his will, she told him everything—all the piteous story of the
                        child's last days—sobbing herself; and for the first time making much of the
                        little one's signs of remembering her father, instead of minimising and
                        ignoring them, as she had done in the talk with Boyson. It was as though for
                        the first time she were trying to stanch a wound instead of widening it.
                    He listened eagerly. The two heads—of the father and mother—drew closer; one
                        might have thought them lovers still, united by tender and sacred
                        memories.
                    But at last Roger drew himself away. He rose to his feet.
                    “I'll forgive you much for that!” he said with a long breath. “Will you write
                        it for me—some day—all you've told me?”
                    She made a sign of assent.
                    “Well, now, you mustn't stay here any longer. I suppose you've got a
                        carriage? And we mustn't meet again. There's no object in it. But I'll
                        remember that you came.”
                    She looked at him. In her nature the great deeps were breaking up. She saw
                        him as she had seen him in her first youth. And, at last, what she had done
                        was plain to her.
                    
                    With a cry she threw herself on the floor beside him. She pressed his hand in
                        hers.
                    “Roger, let me stay! Let me nurse you!” she panted. “I didn't understand. Let
                        me be your friend! Let me help! I implore—I implore you!”
                    He hesitated a moment, then he lifted her to her feet decidedly, but not
                        unkindly.
                    “What do you mean?” he said, slowly. “Do you mean that you wish us to be
                        husband and wife again? You are, of course, my wife, in the eye of English
                        law, at this moment.”
                    “Let me try and help you!” she pleaded again, breaking into bitter tears. “I
                        didn't—I didn't understand!”
                    He shook his head.
                    “You can't help me. I—I'm afraid I couldn't bear it. We mustn't meet. It—it's
                        gone too deep.”
                    He thrust his hands into his pockets and walked away to the window. She stood
                        helplessly weeping.
                    When he returned he was quite composed again.
                    “Don't cry so,” he said, calmly. “It's done. We can't help it. And don't make
                        yourself too unhappy about me. I've had awful times. When I was ill in New
                        York—it was like hell. The pain was devilish, and I wasn't used to being
                        alone, and nobody caring a damn, and
                        everybody believing me a cad and a bully. But I got over that. It was
                        Beatty's death that hit me so hard, and that I wasn't there. It's that,
                        somehow, I can't get over—that you did it—that you could have had the heart.
                        It would always come between us. No, we're better apart. But I'll tell you
                        something to comfort you. I've given up that girl, as I've told you, and
                        I've given up drink. Herbert won't believe it, but he'll find it is so. And
                        I don't mean to die before my time. I'm going out to Switzerland directly.
                        I'll do all the correct things. You see, when a man knows he's
                        going to die—well,” he turned away, “he gets uncommonly curious as to what's
                        going to come next.”
                    He walked up and down a few turns. Daphne watched him.
                    “I'm not pious—I never was. But after all, the religious people profess to
                        know something about it, and nobody else does. Just supposing it were
                        true?”
                    He stopped short, looking at her. She understood perfectly that he had Beatty
                        in his mind.
                    “Well, anyhow, I'm going to live decently for the rest of my time—and die
                        decently. I'm not going to throw away chances. And don't trouble yourself
                        about money. There's enough left to carry me through. Good-bye, Daphne!” He
                        held out his hand to her.
                    
                    She took it, still dumbly weeping. He looked at her with pity.
                    “Yes, I know, you didn't understand what you were doing. But you see, Daphne,
                        marriage is—” he sought rather painfully for his words, “it's a big thing.
                        If it doesn't make us, it ruins us; I didn't marry you for the best of
                        reasons, but I was very fond of you—honour bright! I loved you in my way, I
                        should have loved you more and more. I should have been a decent fellow if
                        you'd stuck to me. I had all sorts of plans; you might have taught me
                        anything. I was a fool about Chloe Fairmile, but there was nothing in it,
                        you know there wasn't. And now it's all rooted up and done with. Women like
                        to think such things can be mended, but they can't—they can't, indeed. It
                        would be foolish to try.”
                    Daphne sank upon a chair and buried her face in her hands. He drew a long and
                        painful breath. “I'm afraid I must go,” he said waveringly. “I—I can't stand
                        this any longer. Good-bye, Daphne, good-bye.”
                    She only sobbed, as though her life dissolved in grief. He drew near to her,
                        and as she wept, hidden from him, he laid his hand a moment on her shoulder.
                        Then he took up his hat.
                    “I'm going now,” he said in a low voice. “I shan't come back till you have
                        gone.”
                    
                     
                    
                    She heard him cross the room, his steps in the verandah. Outside, in the
                        summer dark, a figure came to meet him. French drew Roger's arm into his,
                        and the two walked away. The shadows of the wooded lane received them.
                    A woman came quickly into the room.
                    Elsie French looked down upon the sobbing Daphne, her own eyes full of tears,
                        her hands clasped.
                    “Oh, you poor thing!” she said, under her breath. “You poor thing!” And she
                        knelt down beside her and folded her arms round her.
                    So from the same heart that had felt a passionate pity for the victim,
                        compassion flowed out on the transgressor. For where others feel the tragedy
                        of suffering, the pure in heart realise with an infinitely sharper pain the
                        tragedy of guilt.
                
            
            THE END
            PRINTED DY CASSELL & CO., LTD., LA BELLE, SAUVAGE, LONDON,
                E.C.
            
            The Publishers are indebted to the Proprietors of the “Pall Mall Magazine” for
                their permission to use the drawings by Mr. Fred. Pegram.
        
    
