
     ----CITATION----
        Craik, Dinah Maria Mulock (1826-1887). The Adventures of a Brownie. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 130 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (18-Dec-1997).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7031
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        

            
            
                
                    THE ADVENTURES OF A BROWNIE 
                    AS TOLD TO MY CHILD.
                
                BY THE AUTHOR OF “JOHN HALIFAX, GENTLEMAN,”
                
                    LONDON: 
                    SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, LOW, AND SEARLE,
                        CROWN BUILDINGS, FLEET STREET.
                
                1872.
                [All rights reserved.]
            
            
            
                CHISWICK PRESS:—PRINTED BY WHITTINGHAM AND WILKINS, TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY
                    LANE.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    ADVENTURE THE FIRST.
                    Brownie and the Cook 1
                    ADVENTURE THE SECOND.
                    Brownie and the Cherry?tree 17
                    ADVENTURE THE THIRD.
                    Brownie in the Farmyard 28
                    ADVENTURE THE FOURTH.
                    Brownie’s Ride 49
                    ADVENTURE THE FIFTH.
                    Brownie on the Ice 73
                    ADVENTURE THE SIXTH AND LAST.
                    Brownie and the Clothes 94
                
            
        
        
            
            
                ADVENTURE THE FIRST.
                BROWNIE AND THE COOK.
                THERE once was a little Brownie who lived—where do you think he
                    lived?—In a coal?cellar.
                Now a coal?cellar may seem a most curious place to choose to live in; but then a
                    Brownie is a curious creature—a fairy, and yet not one of that sort of fairies
                    who fly about on gossamer wings, and dance in
                    the moonlight, and so on. He never dances; and as to wings, what use would they
                    be to him in a coal?cellar? He is a sober, stay?at?home household elf—nothing
                    much to look at, even if you did see him, which you are not likely to do—only a
                    little old man, about a foot high, all dressed in brown, with a brown face and
                    hands, and a brown peaked cap, just the colour of a brown mouse. And like a
                    mouse he hides in corners—especially kitchen corners, and only comes out after
                    dark when nobody is about, and so sometimes people call him Mr. Nobody.
                I said you were not likely to see him. I never did, certainly, and never knew
                    anybody that did; but still, if you were to go into Devonshire, you would hear
                    many funny stories about Brownies in general, and so I may as well tell you the
                    adventures of this particular Brownie, who belonged to a family there; which
                    family he had followed from house to house, most faithfully, for years and
                    years.
                A good many people had heard him—or supposed they had—when there were
                    extraordinary noises about the house; noises
                    which must have come from a mouse or a rat—or a Brownie. But nobody had ever
                    seen him, except the children, the three little boys and three little girls—who
                    declared he often came to play with them when they were alone, and was the
                    nicest companion in the world, though he was such an old man—hundreds of years
                    old! He was full of fun and mischief and up to all sorts of tricks, but he never
                    did anybody any harm unless they deserved it.
                Brownie was supposed to live under one particular coal, in the darkest corner of
                    the cellar, which was never allowed to be disturbed. Why he had chosen it nobody
                    knew, and how he lived there, nobody knew either; nor what he lived upon. Except
                    that, ever since the family could remember, there had always been a bowl of milk
                    put behind the coal?cellar door for the Brownie’s supper. Perhaps he drank
                    it—perhaps he didn’t: anyhow, the bowl was always found empty next morning.
                The old Cook, who had lived all her life in the
                    family, had never once forgotten to give Brownie his supper; but at last she
                    died, and a young Cook came in her stead, who was very apt to forget everything.
                    She was also both careless and lazy, and disliked taking the trouble to put a
                    bowl of milk in the same place every night for Mr. Nobody. “She didn’t believe
                    in Brownies,” she said; “she had never seen one, and seeing’s believing.” So she
                    laughed at the other servants, who looked very grave, and put the bowl of milk
                    in its place as often as they could, without saying much about it.
                But once, when Brownie woke up, at his usual hour for rising—ten o’clock at
                    night, and looked round in search of his supper—which was in fact his breakfast,
                    he found nothing there. At first he could not imagine such neglect, and went
                    smelling and smelling about for his bowl of milk—it was not always placed in the
                    same corner now—but in vain.
                “This will never do,” said he; and being extremely hungry, began running about
                    the coal? cellar to see what he could find. His
                    eyes were as useful in the dark as in the light—like a pussycat’s; but there was
                    nothing to be seen—not even a potato paring, or a dry crust, or a well?gnawed
                    bone, such as Tiny the terrier sometimes brought into the coal?cellar and left
                    on the floor—nothing, in short, but heaps of coals and coal?dust; and even a
                    Brownie cannot eat that, you know.
                “Can’t stand this; quite impossible!” said the Brownie, tightening his belt to
                    make his poor little inside feel less empty. He had been asleep so long—about a
                    week, I believe, as was his habit when there was nothing to do—that he seemed
                    ready to eat his own head, or his boots, or anything. “What’s to be done? since
                    nobody brings my supper I must go and fetch it.”
                He spoke quickly, for he always thought quickly, and made up his mind in a
                    minute. To be sure it was a very little mind, like his little body; but he did
                    the best he could with it, and was not a bad sort of old fellow after all. In
                    the house he had never done any harm—and often some good, for he frightened away all the rats, mice and black?beetles.
                    Not the crickets—he liked them, as the old Cook had done: she said they were
                    such cheerful creatures, and always brought luck to the house. But the young
                    Cook could not bear them, and used to pour boiling water down their holes, and
                    set basins of beer for them with little wooden bridges up to the rim, that they
                    might walk up, tumble in, and be drowned.
                So there was not even a cricket singing in the silent house when Brownie put his
                    head out of his coal?cellar door, which, to his surprise, he found open. Old
                    Cook used to lock it every night; but the young Cook had left that key, and the
                    kitchen and pantry keys too, all dangling in the lock, so that any thief might
                    have got in, and wandered all over the house without being found out.
                “Hurrah, here’s luck!” cried Brownie, tossing his cap up in the air, and bounding
                    right through the scullery into the kitchen. It was quite empty, but there was a
                    good fire burning itself out—just for its own amusement, and the remains of a
                    capital supper spread on the table—enough for
                    half?a?dozen people being left still.
                Would you like to know what there was? Devonshire cream, of course; and part of a
                    large dish of junket, which is something like curds and whey. Lots of bread and
                    butter and cheese, and half apple?pudding. Also a great jug of cider and another
                    of milk, and several half?full glasses, and no end of dirty plates, knives and
                    forks. All were scattered about the table in the most untidy fashion, just as
                    the servants had risen from their supper without thinking to put anything
                    away.
                Brownie screwed up his little old face and turn up his button of a nose, and gave
                    a long whistle. You might not believe it, seeing he lived in a coal?cellar, but
                    really he liked tidiness, and always played his pranks upon disorderly or
                    slovenly folk.
                “Whew!” said he, “here’s a chance! What a supper I’ll get now!”
                And he jumped on to a chair and thence to the table, but so quietly that the
                    large black cat with four white paws, called Muff, because she was so fat and soft and her fur so long, who sat dozing in
                    front of the fire, just opened one eye and went to sleep again. She had tried to
                    get her nose into the milk?jug, but it was too small; and the junket?dish was
                    too deep for her to reach, except with one paw. She didn’t care much for bread
                    and cheese and apple?pudding, and was very well fed besides; so after just
                    wandering round the table she had jumped down from it again, and settled herself
                    to sleep on the hearth.
                But Brownie had no notion of going to sleep. He wanted his supper, and oh! what a
                    supper he did eat! first one thing and then another, and then trying everything
                    all over again. And oh! what a lot he drank!—first milk and then cider, and then
                    mixed the two together in a way that would have disagreed with anybody except a
                    Brownie. As it was, he was obliged to slacken his belt several times, and at
                    last took it off altogether. But he must have had a most extraordinary capacity
                    for eating and drinking—since, after he had nearly cleared the table, he was
                    just as lively as ever, and
                     began jumping about on the table as if he had
                    had no supper at all.
                Now his jumping was a little awkward, for there happened to be a clean white
                    table?cloth; as this was only Monday, it had had no time to get dirty—untidy as
                    the Cook was. And you know Brownie lived in a coal?cellar, and his feet were
                    black with running about in coal dust. So wherever he trod, he left the
                    impression behind; until at last the whole table?cloth was covered with black
                    marks.
                Not that he minded this; in fact, he took great pains to make the cloth as dirty
                    as possible; and then laughing loudly “Ho, ho, ho!” leaped on to the hearth, and
                    began teazing the cat; squeaking like a mouse, or chirping like a cricket, or
                    buzzing like a fly; and altogether disturbing poor Pussy’s mind so much, that
                    she went and hid herself in the farthest corner, and left him the hearth all to
                    himself, where he lay at ease till daybreak.
                Then, hearing a slight noise overhead, which might be the servants getting up, he
                    jumped on to the table again—gobbled up the few remaining crumbs for his breakfast, and scampered off to his
                    coal?cellar; where he hid himself under his big coal, and fell asleep for the
                    day.
                Well, the Cook came down stairs rather earlier than usual, for she remembered she
                    had to clear off the remains of supper; but lo and behold, there was nothing
                    left to clear! Every bit of food was eaten up—the cheese looked as if a dozen
                    mice had been nibbling at it, and nibbled it down to the very rind; the milk and
                    cider were all drunk—and mice don’t care for milk and cider, you know: as for
                    the apple?pudding, it had vanished altogether; and the dish was licked as clean
                    as if Boxer the yard?dog had been at it, in his hungriest mood.
                “And my white table?cloth—oh, my clean white table?cloth! What can have been done
                    to it?” cried she in amazement. For it was all over little black footmarks, just
                    the size of a baby’s foot—only babies don’t wear shoes with nails in them, and
                    don’t run about and climb on kitchen tables after all the family have gone to
                    bed.
                Cook was a little frightened; but her fright
                    changed to anger when she saw the large black cat stretched comfortably on the
                    heath. Poor Muff had crept there for a little snooze after Brownie went
                    away.
                “You nasty cat! I see it all now; it’s you that have eaten up all the supper;
                    it’s you that have been on my clean table?cloth with your dirty paws.”
                They were white paws, and as clean as possible; but Cook never thought of that,
                    any more than she did of the fact that cats don’t usually drink cider or eat
                    apple pudding,
                “I’ll teach you to come stealing food in this way; take that—and that—and
                    that!”
                Cook got hold of a broom and beat poor Pussy till the creature ran mewing away.
                    She couldn’t speak, you know—unfortunate cat! and tell people that it was
                    Brownie who had done it all.
                Next night Cook thought she would make all safe and sure; so, instead of letting
                    the cat sleep by the fire, she shut her up in the chilly coal?cellar—locked the
                    door, put the key in her pocket, and went off to bed; leaving the supper as
                    before.
                
                When Brownie woke up and looked out of his hole, there was as usual no supper for
                    him, and the cellar was close shut. He peered about, to try and find some cranny
                    under the door to creep out at, but there was none. And he felt so hungry that
                    he could almost have eaten the cat, who kept walking to and fro in a melancholy
                    manner—only she was alive, and he couldn’t well eat her alive:—besides he knew
                    she was old, and had an idea she might be tough; so he merely said, politely,
                    “How do you do, Mrs. Pussy,” to which she answered nothing—of course.
                Something must be done, and luckily Brownies can do things which nobody else can
                    do. So he thought he would change himself into a mouse, and gnaw a hole through
                    the door. But then he suddenly remembered the cat, who, though he had decided
                    not to eat her, might take this opportunity of eating him. So he thought it
                    advisable to wait till she was fast asleep, which did not happen for a good
                    while. At length, quite tired with walking about, Pussy turned round on her tail
                    six times, curled down in a corner, and fell fast asleep.
                
                Immediately Brownie changed himself into the smallest mouse possible; and, taking
                    care not to make the least noise, gnawed a hole in the door, and squeezed
                    himself through—immediately turning into his proper shape again, for fear of
                    accidents.
                The kitchen fire was at its last glimmer; but it showed a better supper than even
                    last night, for the Cook had had friends with her, a brother and two cousins,
                    and they had been exceedingly merry. The food they had left behind was enough
                    for three Brownies at least, but this one managed to eat it all up. Only once,
                    in trying to cut a great slice of beef, he let the carving?knife and fork fall
                    with such a clatter, that Tiny the terrier, who was tied up at the foot of the
                    stairs, began to bark furiously. However, he brought her her puppy, which had
                    been left in a basket in a corner of the kitchen, and so succeeded in quieting
                    her.
                After that he enjoyed himself amazingly, and made more marks than ever on the
                    white table?cloth—for he began jumping about like a pea on a trencher, in order
                    to make his particularly large supper agree with him.
                
                Then, in the absence of the cat, he teazed the puppy for an hour or two, till,
                    hearing the clock strike five, he thought it as well to turn into a mouse again,
                    and creep back cautiously into his cellar. He was only just in time, for Muff
                    opened one eye, and was just going to pounce upon him, when he changed himself
                    back into a Brownie. She was so startled that she bounded away, her tail growing
                    into twice its natural size, and her eyes gleaming like round green globes, But
                    Brownie only said, “Ha, ha, ho!” and walked deliberately into his hole,
                When Cook came down stairs and saw that the same thing had happened again—that
                    the supper was all eaten, and the table?cloth blacker than ever with the
                    extraordinary footmarks, she was greatly puzzled. Who could have done it all?
                    Not the cat, who came mewing out of the coal?cellar the minute she unlocked the
                    door. Possibly a rat—but then would a rat have come within reach of Tiny?
                “It must have been Tiny herself, or her puppy,” which just came rolling out of
                    its basket over Cook’s feet. “You little
                    wretch! You and your mother are the greatest nuisance imaginable. I’ll punish
                    you!”
                And quite forgetting that Tiny had been safely tied up all night, and that her
                    poor little puppy was so fat and helpless it could scarcely stand on its legs—to
                    say nothing of jumping on chairs and tables, she gave them both such a thrashing
                    that they ran howling together out of the kitchen door, where the kind little
                    kitchen?maid took them up in her arms.
                “You ought to have beaten the Brownie, if you could catch him,” said she in a
                    whisper. “He’ll do it again and again, you’ll see, for he can’t bear an untidy
                    kitchen. You’d better do as poor old Cook did, and clear the supper things away,
                    and put the odds and ends safe in the larder; also,” she added mysteriously, “if
                    I were you, I’d put a bowl of milk behind the coal?cellar door.”
                “Nonsense!” answered the young Cook, and flounced away. But afterwards she
                    thought better of it, and did as she was advised, grumbling all the time, but
                    doing it.
                
                Next morning, the milk was gone! Perhaps Brownie had drunk it up, anyhow nobody
                    could say that he hadn’t. As for the supper, Cook having safely laid it on the
                    shelves of the larder, nobody touched it. And the table?cloth, which was wrapped
                    up tidily and put in the dresser drawer, came out as clean as ever, with not a
                    single black footmark upon it. No mischief being done, the cat and the dog both
                    escaped beating, and Brownie played no more tricks with anybody?till the next
                    time.
                 
            
            
            
                ADVENTURE THE SECOND.
                BROWNIE AND THE CHERRY?TREE.
                THE “next time” was quick in coming, which was not wonderful,
                    considering there was a Brownie in the house. Otherwise the house was like most
                    other houses, and the family like most other families. The children also: they
                    were sometimes good, sometimes naughty, like
                    other children: but on the whole they deserved to have the pleasure of a Brownie
                    to play with them, as they declared he did—many and many a time.
                A favourite play?place was the orchard, where grew the biggest cherry?tree you
                    ever saw. They called it their “castle,” because it rose up ten feet from the
                    ground in one thick stem, and then branched out into a circle of boughs, with a
                    flat place in the middle, where two or three children could sit at once. There
                    they often did sit, turn by turn, or one at a time—sometimes with a book,
                    reading; and the biggest boy made a sort of rope?ladder by which they could
                    climb up and down—which they did all winter, and enjoyed their “castle” very
                    much.
                But one day in spring they found their ladder cut away! The Gardener had done it,
                    saying it injured the tree, which was just coming into blossom. Now this
                    Gardener was a rather gruff man, with a growling voice. He did not mean to be
                    unkind, but he disliked children; he said they bothered him. But when they
                    complained to their mother about the ladder,
                    she agreed with Gardener that the tree must not be injured, as it bore the
                    biggest cherries in all the neighbourhood—so big that the old saying of “taking
                    two bites at a cherry,” came really true.
                “Wait till the cherries are ripe,” said she; and so the little people waited, and
                    watched it through its leafing and blossoming—such sheets of blossom, white as
                    snow!—till the fruit began to show, and grew large and red on every bough.
                At last one morning the mother said “Children, should you like to help gather the
                    cherries to?day?”
                “Hurrah!” they cried, “and not a day too soon; for we saw a flock of starlings in
                    the next field—and if we don’t clear the tree, they will.”
                “Very well; clear it then. Only mind and fill my basket quite full for
                    preserving. What is over you may eat if you like.”
                “Thank you, thank you,” and the children were eager to be off, but the mother
                    stopped them till she could get the Gardener and his ladder.
                “For it is he must climb the tree, not you; and
                    you must do exactly as he tells you; and he will stop with you all the time and
                    see that you don’t come to harm.”
                This was no slight cloud on the children’s happiness, and they begged hard to go
                    alone.
                “Please might we? We will be so good!”
                The mother shook her head. All the goodness in the world would not help them if
                    they tumbled off the tree, or eat themselves sick with cherries. “You would not
                    be safe, and I should be so unhappy.”
                To make mother “unhappy” was the worst rebuke possible to these children; so they
                    choked down their disappointment, and followed the gardener as he walked on
                    ahead, carrying his ladder on his shoulder. He looked very cross, and as if he
                    did not like the children’s company at all.
                They were pretty good on the whole, though they chattered a good deal; but
                    Gardener said not a word to them all the way to the orchard. When they reached
                    it he just told them to “keep out of his way and not worrit him,” which they
                    politely promised, saying among themselves that
                    they should not enjoy their cherry?gathering at all. But children who make the
                    best of things and try to be as good as they can, sometimes have fun
                    unawares.
                When the gardener was steadying his ladder against the trunk of the cherry?tree,
                    there was suddenly heard the barking of a dog, and a very fierce dog too. First
                    it seemed close beside them, then in the flower?garden, then in the
                    fowl?yard.
                Gardener dropped the ladder out of his hands. “It’s that Boxer! He has got loose
                    again! He will be running after my chickens, and dragging his broken chain all
                    over my borders. And he is so fierce, and so delighted to get free. He’ll bite
                    anybody who ties him up, except me.”
                “Hadn’t you better go and see after him?”
                Gardener thought it was the eldest boy who spoke, and turned round angrily; but
                    the little fellow had never opened his lips.
                Here there was heard a still louder bark, and from a quite different part of the
                    garden.
                “There he is—I’m sure of it! jumping over my
                    bedding?out plants, and breaking my cucumber frames. Abominable beast!—just let
                    me catch him!”
                Off Gardener darted in a violent passion, throwing the ladder down upon the
                    grass, and forgetting all about the cherries and the children.
                The instant he was gone, a shrill laugh, loud and merry, was heard close by, and
                    a little brown old man’s face peeped from behind the cherry?tree.
                “How?dy’e?do?—Boxer was me. Didn’t I bark well? Now I’m come to play with
                    you.”
                The children clapped their hands; for they knew they were going to have some fun
                    if Brownie was there—he was the best little play?fellow in the world. And then
                    they had him all to themselves. Nobody ever saw him except the children.
                “Come on!” cried he, in his shrill voice, half like an old man’s, half like a
                    baby’s. “Who’ll begin to gather the cherries?”
                They all looked blank; for the tree was so high to where the branches sprung, and
                    besides, their mother had said they were not to climb. And the ladder lay flat upon the grass—far too heavy for
                    little hands to move.
                “What! you big boys don’t expect a poor little fellow like me to lift the ladder
                    all by myself? Try! I’ll help you.”
                Whether he helped or not, no sooner had they taken hold of the ladder than it
                    rose up, almost of its own accord, and fixed itself quite safely against the
                    tree.
                “But we must not climb; mother told us not,” said the boys ruefully. “Mother said
                    we were to stand at the bottom and pick up the cherries.”
                “Very well. Obey your mother. I’ll just run up the tree myself.”
                Before the words were out of his mouth Brownie had darted up the ladder like a
                    monkey, and disappeared among the fruit?laden branches.
                The children looked dismayed for a minute, till they saw a merry brown face
                    peeping out from the green leaves at the very top of the tree.
                “Biggest fruit always grows highest,” cried the Brownie; “Stand in a row, all you
                    children. Little boys, hold out your caps:
                    little girls, make a bag of your pinafores. Open your mouths and shut your eyes,
                    and see what the queen will send you.”
                They laughed and did as they were told; whereupon they were drowned in a shower
                    of cherries—cherries falling like hailstones, hitting them on their heads, their
                    cheeks, their noses—filling their caps and pinafores, and then rolling and
                    tumbling on to the grass, till it was strewn thick as leaves in autumn with the
                    rosy fruit.
                What a glorious scramble they had!—these three little boys and three little
                    girls. How they laughed and jumped and knocked heads together in picking up the
                    cherries—yet never quarrelled, for there were such heaps, it would have been
                    ridiculous to squabble over them; and besides, whenever they began to quarrel,
                    Brownie always ran away. Now he was the merriest of the lot; ran up and down the
                    tree like a cat, helped to pick up the cherries, and was first?rate at filling
                    the large market?basket.
                “We were to eat as many as we liked, only we must first fill the basket,”
                    conscientiously said the eldest
                     girl; upon which they all set to at once, and
                    filled it to the brim.
                “Now we’ll have a dinner party,” cried the Brownie; and squatted down like a
                    Turk, crossing his queer little legs, and sticking his elbows upon his knees, in
                    a way that nobody but a Brownie could manage. “Sit in a ring! sit in a ring! and
                    we’ll see who can eat fastest.”
                The children obeyed. How many cherries they devoured, and how fast they did it,
                    passes my capacity of telling. I only hope they were not ill next day—and that
                    all the cherry?stones they swallowed by mistake did not disagree with them. But
                    perhaps nothing does disagree with one when one dines with a Brownie.
                They ate so much, laughing in equal proportion, that they had quite forgotten the
                    Gardener—when all of a sudden they heard him clicking angrily the orchard gate,
                    and talking to himself as he walked through.
                “That nasty dog! It wasn’t Boxer after all! A nice joke! to find him quietly
                    asleep in his kennel —after having hunted him,
                    as I thought, from one end of the garden to the other! Now for the cherries and
                    the children—Bless us, where are the children? And the cherries! Why, the tree
                    is as bare as a blackthorn in February! The starlings have been at it, after
                    all. O dear! O dear!”
                “O dear! O dear!” echoed a voice from behind the tree, followed by shouts of
                    mocking laughter. Not from the children—they sat as demure as possible, all in a
                    ring, with their hands before then, and in the centre the huge basket of
                    cherries, piled as full as it could possibly hold. But the Brownie had
                    disappeared.
                “You naughty brats, I’ll have you punished!” cried the Gardener, furious at the
                    laughter, for he never laughed himself. But as there was nothing wrong; the
                    cherries being gathered, a very large crop, and the ladder found safe in its
                    place—it was difficult to say what had been the harm done and who had done
                    it.
                So he went growling back to the house, carrying the cherries to the mistress, who
                    coaxed him into good temper again, as she
                    sometimes did; bidding also the children to behave well to him, since he was an
                    old man, and not really bad—only cross. As for the little folks, she had not the
                    slightest intention of punishing them; and as for Brownie, it was impossible to
                    catch him. So nobody was punished at all.
                 
            
            
            
                ADVENTURE THE THIRD.
                BROWNIE IN THE FARMYARD.
                WHICH was a place where he did not often go, for he preferred being warm
                    and snug in the house. But when he felt himself ill?used, he would wander
                    anywhere, in order to play tricks upon those whom he thought had done him harm. For being only a Brownie, and not a man,
                    he did not understand that the best way to revenge yourself upon your enemies is
                    either to let them alone or to pay them back good for evil. It disappoints them
                    so much, and makes them so exceedingly ashamed of themselves.
                One day Brownie overheard the Gardener advising the cook to put sour milk into
                    his bowl at night, instead of sweet.
                “He’d never find out the difference, no more than the pigs do. Indeed it’s my
                    belief that a pig, or dog, or something, empties the bowl, and not a Brownie at
                    all. It’s just clean waste—that’s what I say.”
                “Then you’d better hold your tongue, and mind your own business,” returned the
                    cook, who was a sharp temper, and would not stand being meddled with. She began
                    to abuse the Gardener soundly; but his wife, who was standing by, took his part,
                    as she always did when any third party scolded him. So they all squabbled
                    together, till Brownie, hid under his coal, put his little hands over his little
                    ears.
                
                “Dear me, what a noise these mortals do make when they quarrel! They quite deafen
                    me. I must teach them better manners.”
                But when the cook slammed the door to, and left Gardener and his wife alone, they
                    two began to dispute between themselves.
                “You make such a fuss over your nasty pigs, and get all the scraps for them,”
                    said the wife. “It’s of much more importance that I should have everything cook
                    can spare for my chickens. Never were such fine chickens as my last brood!”
                “I thought they were ducklings.”
                “How you catch me up, you rude old man! They are ducklings, and beauties too—even
                    though they have never seen water. Where’s the pond you promised to make for me,
                    I wonder?”
                “Rubbish, woman! If my cows do without a pond, your ducklings may. And why will
                    you be so silly as to rear ducklings at all? Fine fat chickens are a deal
                    better. You’ll find out your mistake some day!”
                “And so will you when that old Alderney runs
                    dry. You’ll wish you had taken my advice and fattened and sold her.”
                “Alderney cows won’t sell for fattening, and women’s advice is never worth
                    twopence. Your’s isn’t worth even a halfpenny. What are you laughing at?”
                “I wasn’t laughing,” said the wife, angrily; and in truth it was not she, but
                    little Brownie, running under the barrow which the Gardener was wheeling along,
                    and very much amused that people should be so silly as to squabble about
                    nothing.
                It was still early morning; for whatever this old couple’s faults might be,
                    laziness was not one of them. The wife rose with the dawn to feed her poultry
                    and collect her eggs; the husband also got through as much work by
                    breakfast?time as many an idle man does by noon. But Brownie had been beforehand
                    with them this day.
                When all the fowls came running to be fed, the big Brahma hen who had hatched the
                    ducklings was seen wandering forlornly about, and clucking mournfully for her
                    young brood—she could not find them anywhere.
                    Had she been able to speak, she might have told how a large white Aylesbury duck
                    had waddled into the farmyard, and waddled out again, coaxing them after her, no
                    doubt in search of a pond. But missing they were, most certainly.
                “Cluck, cluck, cluck!” mourned the miserable hen?mother,—and “Oh, my ducklings,
                    my ducklings!” cried the Gardener’s wife, “Who can have carried off my beautiful
                    ducklings?”
                “Rats, maybe,” said the Gardener, cruelly, as he walked away. And as he went he
                    heard the squeak of a rat below his wheel?barrow. But he could not catch it, any
                    more than his wife could catch the Aylesbury duck. Of course not. Both were—the
                    Brownie!
                Just at this moment the six little people came running into the farmyard. When
                    they had been particularly good, they were sometimes allowed to go with Gardener
                    a?milking, each carrying his or her own mug for a drink of milk, warm from the
                    cow. They scampered after him—a noisy tribe, begging to be taken down to the
                    field, and holding out their six mugs entreatingly.
                
                “What, six cupfuls of milk, when I haven’t a drop to spare, and cook is always
                    wanting more? Ridiculous nonsense! Get along with you; you may come to the
                    field—I can’t hinder that—but you’ll get no milk this day. Take your mugs back
                    again to the kitchen.”
                The poor little folks made the best of a bad business, and obeyed; then followed
                    Gardener down to the field, rather dolefully. But it was such a beautiful
                    morning that they soon recovered their spirits. The grass shone with dew, like a
                    sheet of diamonds, the clover smelt so sweet, and two skylarks were singing at
                    one another high up in the sky. Several rabbits darted past to their great
                    amusement, especially one very large rabbit, brown, not grey, which dodged them
                    in and out, and once nearly threw Gardener down, pail and all, by running across
                    his feet;—which set them all laughing till they came where Dolly the cow lay
                    chewing the cud under a large oak?tree.
                It was great fun to stir her up—as usual—and lie down, one after the other, in
                    the place where she had lain all night long,
                    making the grass flat, and warm and perfumy with her sweet breath. She let them
                    do it, and then stood meekly by; for Dolly was the gentlest cow in the
                    world.
                But this morning something strange seemed to possess her. She altogether refused
                    to be milked—kicked, plunged, tossed over the pail, which was luckily empty.
                “Bless the cow! what’s wrong with her? It’s surely you children’s fault. Stand
                    off, the whole lot of you. Soh, Dolly! good Dolly!”
                But Dolly was anything but good. She stood, switching her tail and looking as
                    savage as so mild an animal possibly could look.
                “It’s all your doing, you naughty children! You’ve been playing her some trick, I
                    know,” cried the Gardener, in great wrath.
                They assured him they had done nothing, and indeed they looked as quiet as mice
                    and as innocent as lambs. At length the biggest boy pointed out a large wasp
                    which had settled in Dolly’s ear.
                “That accounts for everything,” said the Gardener.
                
                But it did not mend everything; for when he tried to drive it away it kept coming
                    back and back, and buzzing round his own head, and the cow’s, with a voice that
                    the children thought was less like the buzz of a wasp than the sound of a person
                    laughing. At length it frightened Dolly to such an extent that with one wild
                    bound she darted right away, and galloped off to the further end of the
                    field.
                “I’ll get a rope and tie her legs together,” cried the Gardener, fiercely. “She
                    shall repent giving me all his trouble—that she shall!”
                “Ha, ha, ha!” laughed somebody. The Gardener thought it was the children, and
                    gave one of them an angry cuff as he walked away. But they knew it was somebody
                    else, and were not at all surprised when, the minute his back was turned, Dolly
                    came walking quietly back, led by a little wee brown man who scarcely reached up
                    to her knees. Yet she let him guide her, which he did as gently as possible,
                    though the string he held her by was no thicker than a spider web. floating from
                    one of her her horns.
                “Soh, Dolly! good Dolly!” cried Brownie,
                    mimicking the Gardener’s voice. “Now we’ll see what we can do. I want my
                    breakfast badly—don’t you, little folks?”
                Of course they did, for the morning air made them very hungry.
                “Very well—wait a bit, though. Old people should be served first, you know.
                    Besides, I want to go to bed.”
                Go to bed in the daylight! The children all laughed, and then looked quite shy
                    and sorry, lest they might have seemed rude to the little Brownie. But he—he
                    liked fun; and never took offense when none was meant.
                He placed himself on the milking?stool, which was so high that his little legs
                    were dangling halfway down, and milked and milked—Dolly standing as still as
                    possible—till he had filled the whole pail. Most astonishing cow! she gave as
                    much as two cows;—and such delicious milk as it was—all frothing and
                    yellow—richer than even Dolly’s milk had ever been before. The children’s mouths
                    watered for it, but not a word said they,—even when, instead of giving it to
                    them, Brownie put his own mouth to the
                     pail, and drank and drank, till it seemed as
                    if he were never going to stop. But it was decidedly a relief to them when he
                    popped his head up again and lo! the pail was as full as ever!
                “Now, little ones, now’s your turn. Where are your mugs?”
                All answered mournfully, “We’ve got none. Gardener made us take them back
                    again.”
                “Never mind—all right. Gather me half?a?dozen of the biggest buttercups you can
                    find.”
                “What nonsense!” thought the children; but they did it. Brownie laid the flowers
                    in a row upon the eldest girl’s lap—blew upon them one by one, and each turned
                    into the most beautiful golden cup that ever was seen!
                “Now, then, every one take his own mug, and I’ll fill it.”
                He milked away—each child got a drink, and then the cups were filled again. And
                    all the while Dolly stood as quiet as possible—looking benignly round, as if she
                    would be happy to supply milk to the whole parish, if the Brownie desired
                    it.
                “Soh, Dolly! Thank you, Dolly!” said he again,
                    mimicking the Gardener’s voice, half growling, half coaxing. And while he spoke,
                    the real voice was heard behind the hedge. There was a sound as of a great wasp
                    flying away, which made Dolly prick up her ears, and look as if the old
                    savageness was coming back upon her. The children snatched up their mugs, but
                    there was no need, they had all turned into buttercups again.
                Gardener jumped over the stile, as cross as two sticks, with an old rope in his
                    hand.
                “O, what a bother I’ve had! Breakfast ready, and no milk yet—and such a row as
                    they are making over those lost ducklings. Stand back, you children, and don’t
                    hinder me a minute. No use begging—not a drop of milk shall you get. Hillo,
                    Dolly? Quiet, old girl!”
                Quiet enough she was this time—but you might as well have milked a plaster cow in
                    a London milk?shop. Not one ringing drop resounded against the empty pail; for,
                    when they peeped in, the children saw to their amazement that it was empty.
                
                “The creature’s bewitched!” cried the gardener in a great fury. “Or else somebody
                    has milked her dry already. Have you done it? or you?” he asked each of the
                    children.
                They might have said No—which was the literal truth—but then it would not have
                    been the whole truth, for they knew quite well that Dolly had been milked, and
                    also who had done it. And their mother had always taught them that to make a
                    person believe a lie is nearly as bad as telling him one. Yet still they did not
                    like to betray the kind little Brownie. Greatly puzzled, they hung their heads
                    and said nothing.
                “Look in your pail again,” cried a voice from the other side of Dolly. And there
                    at the bottom was just the usual quantity of milk—no more and no less.
                The Gardener was very much astonished. “It must be the Brownie!” muttered he in a
                    frightened tone: and, taking off his hat, “Thank you, sir,” said he to Mr.
                    Nobody—at which the children all burst out laughing. But they kept their own
                    counsel, and he was afraid to ask them any more questions.
                
                By?and?by his fright wore off a little. “I only hope the milk is good milk, and
                    will poison nobody,” said he, sulkily. “However, that’s not my affair. You
                    children had better tell your mother all about it. I left her in the farmyard in
                    a pretty state of mind about her ducklings.”
                Perhaps Brownie heard this, and was sorry, for he liked the children’s mother,
                    who had always been kind to him. Besides, he never did anybody harm who did not
                    deserve it; and though, being a Brownie, he could hardly be said to have a
                    conscience; he had something which stood in the place of one, a liking to see
                    people happy rather than miserable.
                So instead of going to bed under his big coal for the day, when, after breakfast,
                    the children and their mother came out to look at a new brood of chickens, he
                    crept after them, and hid behind the hen?coop where the old mother?hen was put
                    with her young ones round her.
                There had been great difficulty in getting her in there, for she was a hen who
                    hatched her brood on independent principles. Instead of sitting upon the nice nest that the Gardener made for her, she
                    had twice gone into a little wood close by and made a nest for herself, which
                    nobody could ever find; and where she hatched in secret, coming every second day
                    to be fed; and then vanishing again, till at last she re?appeared in triumph,
                    with her chickens running after her. The first brood there had been twelve, but
                    of this there were fourteen—all from her own eggs, of course, and she was
                    uncommonly proud of them. So was the Gardener, so was the mistress—who liked all
                    young things. Such a picture as they were! fourteen soft, yellow, fluffy
                    things—running about after their mother. It had been a most troublesome business
                    to catch—first her, and then them, to put them under the coop. The old hen
                    resisted, and pecked furiously at Gardener’s legs, and the chickens ran about in
                    frantic terror, chirping wildly in answer to her clucking.
                At last, however, the little family was safe in shelter, and the chickens counted
                    over to see that none had been lost in the scuffle. How funny they were! looking
                    so innocent and yet so wise, us chickens do—
                    peering out at the world from under their mother’s wing, or hopping over her
                    back, or snuggled all together under her breast, so that nothing was seen of
                    them but a mass of yellow legs, like a great centipede.
                “How happy the old hen is;” said the children’s mother, looking on, and then
                    looking compassionately at that other forlorn old hen, who had hatched the
                    ducklings, and kept wandering about the farmyard, clucking miserably, “Those
                    poor ducklings, what can have become of them? If rats had killed them we should
                    have found feathers or something: and weasels would have sucked their brains and
                    left them. They must have been stolen, or wandered away, and died of cold and
                    hunger—my poor ducklings!”
                The mistress sighed, for she could not bear any living thing to suffer. And the
                    children nearly cried at the thought of what might be happening to their pretty
                    ducklings. That very minute a little wee brown face peered through a hole in the
                    hen?coop, making the old mother?hen fly furiously at it—as she did at the
                    slightest shadow of an enemy to her little ones.
                
                However, no harm happened—only a guinea?fowl suddenly ran across the farm?yard,
                    screaming in its usual harsh voice. But it was not the usual sort of
                    guinea?fowl, being larger and handsomer than any of theirs.
                “O what a beauty of a creature! how did it ever come into our farmyard,” cried
                    the delighted children; and started off after it, to catch it if possible.
                But they ran and they ran—through the gate and out into the lane; and the
                    guinea?fowl still ran on before them, until turning round a corner they lost
                    sight of it, and immediately saw something else, equally curious.
                Sitting on the top of a big thistle—so big that he must have had to climb it just
                    like a tree—was the Brownie. His legs were crossed, and his arms too; his little
                    brown cap was stuck knowingly on one side, and he was laughing heartily.
                “How do you do? Here I am again. I thought I wouldn’t go to bed after all. Shall
                    I help you to find the ducklings? Very well! come along.”
                They crossed the field, Brownie running beside them and as fast as they could,
                    though he looked such an old man; and sometimes
                    turning over on legs and arms like a Catherine wheel,—which they tried to
                    imitate, but generally failed, and only bruised their fingers and noses.
                He lured them on and on till they came to the wood, and to a green path in it,
                    which, well as they knew the neighbourhood, none of the children had ever seen
                    before. It led to a most beautiful pond, as clear as crystal and as blue as the
                    sky. Large trees grew round it, dipping their branches in the water, as if they
                    were looking at themselves in a glass. And all about their roots were quantities
                    of primroses—the biggest primroses the little girls had ever seen.
                Down they dropped on their fat knees, squashing down more primroses than they
                    gathered, though they tried to gather them all; and the smallest child even
                    began to cry because her hands were so full that the flowers dropped through her
                    fingers.
                But the boys, older and more practical, rather despised primroses.
                “I thought we had come to look for ducklings,”
                    said the eldest. “Mother is fretting dreadfully about her ducklings. Where can
                    they be?”
                “Shut your eyes and you’ll see,” said the Brownie, at which they all laughed, but
                    did it; and when they opened their eyes again, what should they behold, but a
                    whole fleet of ducklings, sailing out from the roots of an old willow?tree, one
                    after the other, looking as fat and content as possible, and swimming as
                    naturally as if they had lived on a pond—and this particular pond, all their
                    days.
                “Count them,” said the Brownie, “the whole eight—quite correct. And then try and
                    catch them—if you can.”
                Easier said than done. The boy set to work with great satisfaction—boys do so
                    enjoy hunting something. They coaxed them—they shouted at them—they threw little
                    sticks at them; but a soon as they wanted them to go one way the fleet of
                    ducklings immediately turned round and sailed another way, doing it so
                    deliberately and majestically, that the children could not help laughing. As for
                    little Brownie, he sat on a branch of the
                    willow tree, with his legs dangling down to the surface of the pond, kicking at
                    the water?spiders, and grinning with all his might.
                At length, quite tired out, in spite of their fun, the children begged for his
                    help, and he took compassion on them.
                “Turn round three times and see what you can find,” shouted he.
                Immediately each little boy found in his arms, and each little girl in her
                    pinafore, a fine fat duckling. And there being eight of them, the two elder
                    children had each a couple. They were rather cold and damp, and slightly
                    uncomfortable to cuddle, ducks not being used to cuddling. Poor things! they
                    struggled hard to get away. But the children hugged them tight, and ran as fast
                    as their legs could carry them through the wood, forgetting in their joy even to
                    say “Thank you” to the little Brownie.
                When they reached their mother she was as glad as they, for she never thought to
                    see her ducklings again; and to have them back all alive and uninjured, and watch them running to the old hen,
                    who received them with an ecstasy of delight, was so exciting, that nobody
                    thought of asking a single question as to where they had been found.
                When the mother did ask, the children told her all about Brownie’s taking them to
                    the beautiful pond—and what a wonderful pond it was; how green the trees were
                    round it: and how large the primroses grew. They never tired of talking about
                    it, and seeking for it. But the odd thing was, that seek as they might, they
                    never could find it again. Many a day did the little people roam about, one by
                    one or all together, round the wood, and across the wood, and up and down the
                    wood, often getting themselves sadly draggled with mud, and torn with
                    brambles—but the beautiful pond they never found again.
                Nor did the ducklings, I suppose; for they wandered no more from the farm?yard,
                    to the old mother hen’s great content. They grew up into fat and respectable
                    ducks—five white ones and three grey ones—waddling about, very content,
                        though they never saw water, except the
                    tank which was placed for them to paddle in. They lived a lazy, peaceful,
                    pleasant life for a long time, and were at last killed and eaten with green
                    peas, one after the other, to the family’s great satisfaction if not to their
                    own.
                 
            
            
            
                ADVENTURE THE FOURTH.
                BROWNIE’S RIDE.
                FOR the little Brownie, though not given to horsemanship, did once take
                    a ride, and a very remarkable one it was. Shall I tell you all about it?
                The six little children got a present of something they had longed for all their
                    lives—a pony. Not a rocking?horse, but a real live pony—a Shetland pony, too,
                    which had travelled all the way from the
                    Shetland Isles to Devonshire—where everybody wondered at it, for such a creature
                    had not been seen in the neighbourhood for years and years. She was no bigger
                    than a donkey, and her coat, instead of being smooth like a horse, was shaggy
                    like a young bear’s. She had a long tail, which had never been cut, and such a
                    deal of hair in her mane and over her eyes that it gave her quite a fierce
                    countenance. In fact, among the mild and tame Devonshire beasts, the little
                    Shetland pony looked almost like a wild animal.
                But in reality she was the gentlest creature in the world. Before she had been
                    many days with them, she began to know the children quite well: followed them
                    about, ate corn out of the bowl they held out to her; nay, one day when the
                    eldest little girl offered her bread?and?butter, she stooped her head and took
                    it from the child’s hand, just like a young lady. Indeed, Jess—that was her
                    name—was altogether so lady?like in her behaviour, that more than once, cook
                    allowed her to walk in at the back door, when
                    she stood politely warming her nose at the kitchen fire, for a minute or two,
                    then turned round and as politely walked out again. But she never did any
                    mischief; and was so quiet and gentle a creature that she bade fair soon to
                    become as great a pet in the household as the dog, the cat, the kittens, the
                    puppies, the fowls, the ducks, the cow, the pig, and all the other members of
                    the family.
                The only one who disliked her, and grumbled at her, was the Gardener. This was
                    odd; because, though cross to children, the old man was kind to dumb beasts.
                    Even his pig knew his voice and grunted, and held out his nose to be scratched,
                    and he always gave each successive pig a name, Jack or Dick, and called them by
                    it, and was quite affectionate to them, one after the other, until the very day
                    that they were killed. But they were English pigs—and the pony was Scotch—and
                    the Devonshire Gardener hated everything Scotch, he said; besides, he was not
                    used to groom’s work, and the pony required such a deal of grooming on account of her long hair. More than once, Gardener
                    threatened to clip it short, and turn her into a regular English pony, but the
                    children were in such distress at this that the mistress and mother forbade any
                    such spoiling of Jess’s personal appearance.
                At length, to keep things smooth, and to avoid the rough words and even blows
                    which poor Jess sometimes got, they sought in the village for a boy to look
                    after her, and found a great rough shock?headed lad named Bill, who for a few
                    shillings a week consented to come up every morning and learn the beginning of a
                    groom’s business; hoping to end, as his mother said he should, in sitting, like
                    the squire’s fat coachman, as broad as he was long, on the top of the
                    hammercloth of a grand carriage, and do nothing all day but drive a pair of
                    horses as stout as himself a few miles along the road and back again.
                Bill would have liked this very much, he thought, if he could have been a
                    coachman all at once, for if there was one thing he disliked, it was work. He
                    much preferred to lie in the sun all day and do
                    nothing; and he only agreed to come and take care of Jess because she was such a
                    very little pony that looking after her seemed next door to doing nothing. But
                    when he tried it he found his mistake. True, Jess was a very gentle beast; so
                    quiet that the old mother hen with fourteen chicks used, instead of roosting
                    with the rest of the fowls, to come regularly into the portion of the cow?shed
                    which was partitioned off for a stable, and settle under a corner of Jess’s
                    manger for the night; and in the morning the chicks would be seen running about
                    fearlessly among her feet and under her very nose.
                But for all that she required a little management for she did not like her long
                    hair to be roughly handled; it took along time to clean her, and though she did
                    not scream out like some silly little children when her hair was combed, I am
                    afraid she sometimes kicked and bounced about, giving Bill a deal of trouble—all
                    the more trouble, the more impatient Bill was.
                And then he had to keep within call, for the children wanted their pony at all
                    hours. She was their own especial property, and
                    they insisted upon learning to ride—even before they got a saddle. Hard work it
                    was to stick on Jess’s bare back, but by degrees the boys did it, turn and turn
                    about, and even gave their sisters a turn too—a very little one—just once round
                    the field and back again, which was quite enough, they considered, for girls.
                    But they were very kind to their little sisters, held them on so that they could
                    not fall, and led Jess carefully and quietly: and altogether behaved as elder
                    brothers should.
                Nor did they squabble very much among themselves, though sometimes it was rather
                    difficult to keep their turns all fair, and remember accurately which was which.
                    But they did their best, being on the whole extremely good children. And they
                    were so happy to have their pony that they would have been ashamed to quarrel
                    over her.
                Also, one very curious thing kept them on their good behaviour. Whenever they did
                    begin to misconduct themselves, to want to ride out of their turns, or to
                    domineer over one another, or the boys, joining to?
                     gether, tried to domineer over the girls, as I
                    grieve to say boys not seldom do, they used to hear in the air, right over their
                    heads, the crack of an unseen whip. It was none of theirs, for they had not got
                    a whip; that was a felicity which their father had promised when they could all
                    ride like young gentlemen and ladies; but there was no missing the sound—indeed,
                    it always startled Jess so that she set off galloping, and could not be caught
                    again for many minutes.
                This happened several times, until one of them said, “Perhaps it’s the Brownie.”
                    Whether it was or not, it made them behave better for a good while: till one
                    unfortunate day the two eldest began contending which should ride foremost and
                    which hindmost on Jess’s back, when “Crick—crack!” went the whip in the air,
                    frightening the pony so much that she kicked up her heels, tossed both the boys
                    over her head, and scampered off, followed by a loud “Ha, ha, ha!”
                It certainly did not come from the two boys, who had fallen—quite safely, but
                    rather unpleasantly— into a large nettle?bed;
                    whence they crawled out, rubbing their arms and legs, and looking too much
                    ashamed to complain. But they were rather frightened and a little cross, for
                    Jess took a skittish fit, and refused to be caught and mounted again, till the
                    bell rang for school—when she grew as meek as possible. Too late—for the
                    children were obliged to run indoors, and got no more rides for the whole
                    day.
                Jess was from this incident supposed to be on the same friendly terms with
                    Brownie as were the rest of the household. Indeed, when she came, the children
                    had taken care to lead her up to the coal?cellar door and introduce her
                    properly—for they knew Brownie was very jealous of strangers and often played
                    them tricks. But after that piece of civility he would be sure, they thought, to
                    take her under his protection. And sometimes, when the little Shetlander was
                    restless and pricked up her ears, looking preternaturally wise under those
                    shaggy brows of hers, the children used to say to one another, “Perhaps she sees
                    the Brownie.”
                Whether she did or not, Jess sometimes seemed to
                    see a good deal that others did not see, and was apparently a favourite with the
                    Brownie, for she grew and thrived so much that she soon became the pride and
                    delight of the children and of the whole family. You would hardly have known her
                    for the rough, shaggy, half?starved little beast that had arrived a few weeks
                    before. Her coat was so silky, her limbs so graceful, and her head so full of
                    intelligence, that everybody admired her. Then, even Gardener began to admire
                    her too.
                “I think I’ll get upon her back, it will save me walking down to the village,”
                    said he, one day. And she actually carried him—though, as his feet nearly
                    touched the ground, it looked as if the man were carrying the pony and not the
                    pony the man. And the children laughed so immoderately that he never tried it
                    afterwards.
                Nor Bill neither, though he had once thought he should like a ride, and got
                    astride on Jess—but she quickly ducked her head down, and he tumbled over it.
                    Evidently she had her own tastes as to her riders, and much preferred little
                    people to big ones.
                
                Pretty Jess! when cantering round the paddock with the young folk, she really was
                    quite a picture. And when at last she got a saddle—a new, beautiful saddle, with
                    a pommel to take off and on, so as to suit both boys and girls—how proud they
                    all were, Jess included! That day they were allowed to take her into the
                    market?town—Gardener leading her, as Bill could not be trusted—and everybody,
                    even the blacksmith, who hoped by?and?by to have the pleasure of shoeing her,
                    said what a beautiful pony she was!
                After this, Gardener treated Jess a great deal better, and showed Bill how to
                    groom her, and kept him close at it too, which Bill did not like at all. He was
                    a very lazy lad, and whenever he could shirk work he did it; and many a time
                    when the children wanted Jess, either there was nobody to saddle her, or she had
                    not been properly groomed, or Bill was away at his dinner, and they had to wait
                    till he came back and could put her in order to be taken out for a ride like a
                    genteel animal—which I am afraid neither pony nor children enjoyed half so much as the old ways before Bill
                    came.
                Still they were gradually becoming excellent little horsemen and horsewomen, even
                    the youngest, only four years old, whom all the rest were very tender over, and
                    who was often held on Jess’s back and given a ride out of her turn because she
                    was a good little girl and never cried for it. And seldomer and seldomer was
                    heard the mysterious sound of the whip in the air, which warned them of
                    quarrelling—Brownie hated quarrelling.
                In fact, their only trouble was Bill, who never came to his work in time, and
                    never did things when wanted, and was ill?natured, lazy, and cross to the
                    children, so that they disliked him very much.
                “I wish the Brownie would punish you,” said one of the boys, “you’d behave better
                    then.”
                “The Brownie!” cried Bill contemptuously, “if I caught him I’d kick him up in the
                    air, like this!”
                And he kicked up his cap—his only cap, it was—which, strange to relate, flew
                    right up, ever so high, and lodged at the very top of a tree which overhung the stable, where it dangled for weeks and
                    weeks, during which time poor Bill had to go bareheaded.
                He was very much vexed, and revenged himself by vexing the children in all sorts
                    of ways. They would have told their mother, and asked her to send Bill away,
                    only she had a great many anxieties just then, for their dear old grandmother
                    was very ill and they did not like to make a fuss about anything that would
                    trouble her.
                So Bill stayed on, and nobody found out what a bad, ill?natured, lazy boy he
                    was.
                But one day the mother was sent for suddenly, not knowing when she should be able
                    to come home again. She was very sad, and so were the children, for they loved
                    their grandmother—and as the carriage drove off they all stood crying round the
                    front door for ever so long.
                The servants even cried too—all but Bill.
                “It’s an ill?wind that blows nobody good,” said he. “What a jolly time I shall
                    have! I’ll do nothing all day long. Those troublesome children sha’n’t have Jess
                    to ride; I’ll keep her in the stable and then
                    she won’t get dirty, and I shall have no trouble in cleaning her. Hurrah! what
                    fun!”
                He put his hands in his pockets, and sat whistling the best part of the
                    afternoon.
                The children had been so unhappy, that for that day they quite forgot Jess; but
                    next morning after lessons were over, they came, begging for a ride.
                “You can’t get one. The stable?door’s locked, and I’ve lost the key.” (He had it
                    in his pocket all the time.)
                “How is poor Jess to get her dinner?” cried a thoughtful little girl “Oh how
                    hungry she will be!”
                And the child was quite in distress, as were the two other girls. But the boys
                    were more angry than sorry.
                “It was very stupid of you, Bill, to lose the key. Look about and find it, or
                    else break open the door.”
                “I won’t,” said Bill, “I daresay the key will turn up before night, and if it
                    doesn’t—who cares? You get riding enough and too much. I’ll not bother myself
                    about it, or Jess either.”
                And Bill sauntered away. He was a big fellow and
                    the little lads were rather afraid of him. But as he walked, he could not keep
                    his hand out of his trousers?pocket, where the key felt growing heavier and
                    heavier, till he expected it every minute to tumble through, and come out at his
                    boots—convicting him before all the children of having told a lie.
                Nobody was in the habit of telling lies to them, so they never suspected him, but
                    went innocently searching about for the key—Bill all the while clutching it
                    fast. But every time he touched it, he felt his fingers pinched, as if there was
                    a cockroach in his pocket—or a little lobster—or something anyhow that had
                    claws. At last, fairly frightened, he made an excuse to go into the cowshed,
                    took the key out of his pocket and looked at it, and finally hid it in a corner
                    of the manger, among the hay.
                As he did so, he heard a most extraordinary laugh, which was certainly not from
                    Dolly the cow, and, as he went out of the shed, he felt the same sort of pinch
                    at his ankles, which made him so angry that he kept striking with his whip in
                    all directions, but hit nobody, for nobody was there.
                
                But Jess—who, as soon as she heard the children’s voice, had set up a most
                    melancholy whinnying behind the locked stable door—began to neigh energetically.
                    And Boxer barked, and the hens cackled, and the guinea?fowls cried “Come back,
                    come back!” in their usual insane fashion—indeed the whole farmyard seemed in
                    such an excited state, that the children got frightened lest Gardener should
                    scold them; and ran away, leaving Bill master of the field.
                What an idle day he had! How he sat on the wall with his hands in his pockets,
                    and lounged upon the fence, and sauntered round the garden! At length,
                    absolutely tired of doing nothing, he went and talked with the Gardener’s wife,
                    while she was hanging out her clothes. Gardener had gone down to the lower
                    field, with all the little folks after him, so that he knew nothing of Bill’s
                    idling, or it might have come to an end.
                By?and?by Bill thought it was time to go home to his supper. “But first I’ll give
                    Jess her corn,” said he, “double quantity, and then I need not come back to give
                    her her breakfast so early in the morning. Soh!
                    you greedy beast. I’ll be at you presently if you don’t stop that noise.”
                For Jess, at sound of his footsteps, was heard to whinny in the most imploring
                    manner, enough to have melted a heart of stone.
                “The key—where on earth did I put the key?” cried Bill, whose constant habit it
                    was to lay things out of his hand, and then forget where he had put them,
                    causing himself endless loss of time in searching for them—as now. At last he
                    suddenly remembered the corner of the cow’s manger, where he felt sure he had
                    left it. But the key was not there.
                “You can’t have eaten it, you silly old cow,” said he, striking Dolly on the nose
                    as she rubbed herself against him—she was an affectionate beast. “Nor you, you
                    stupid old hen!” kicking the mother of the brood, who, with her fourteen chicks,
                    being shut out of their usual roosting?place, Jess’s stable—kept pecking about
                    under Dolly’s legs. “It can’t have gone without hands—of course it can’t.” But
                    most certainly the key was gone.
                What in the world should Bill do? Jess kept on
                    making a pitiful complaining. No wonder, as she had not tasted food since
                    morning. It would have made any kind?hearted person quite sad to hear her,
                    thinking how exceedingly hungry the poor pony must be.
                Little did Bill care for that, or for anything, except that he should be sure to
                    get into trouble as soon as he was found out. When he heard Gardener coming into
                    the farmyard, with the children after him, Bill bolted over the wall like a
                    flash of lightning, and ran away home, leaving poor Jess to her fate.
                All the way he seemed to hear at his heels a little dog yelping, and then a swarm
                    of gnats buzzing round his head, and altogether was so perplexed and bewildered,
                    that when he got into his mother’s cottage he escaped into bed, and pulled the
                    blanket over his ears to shut out the noise of the dog and the gnats, which at
                    last turned into a sound like somebody laughing. It was not his mother, she
                    didn’t often laugh, poor soul!—Bill bothered her quite too much for that, and he
                    knew it. Dreadfully frightened, he hid his head under the bed?clothes,
                    determined to go to sleep and think about nothing till next day.
                
                Meantime, Gardener returned with all the little people trooping after him. He had
                    been rather kinder to them than usual this day, because he knew their mother had
                    gone away in trouble, and now he let them help him to roll the gravel, and fetch
                    up Dolly to be milked, and watch him milk her in the cowshed—where, it being
                    nearly winter, she always spent the night now. They were so well amused that
                    they forgot all about their disappointment as to the ride, and Jess did not
                    remind them of it by her whinnying. For as soon as Bill was gone, she grew quite
                    silent.
                At last one little girl, the one who had cried over Jess’s being left hungry,
                    remembered the poor pony, and peeping through a crevice in the cowshed, saw her
                    stand contentedly munching at a large bowl fall of corn.
                “So Bill did find the key. I’m very glad,” thought the kind little maiden, and to
                    make sure looked again, when—what do you think she beheld squatting on the
                    manger? Something brown, either a large brown rat, or a small brown man. But she
                    held her tongue, since being a very little
                    girl, people sometimes laughed at her for the strange things she saw. She was
                    quite certain she did see them for all that.
                So she and the rest of the children went indoors and to bed. When they were fast
                    asleep, something happened. Something so curious, that the youngest boy, who
                    thinking he heard Jess neighing, got up to look out, was afraid to tell, lest he
                    too should be laughed at, and went back to bed immediately.
                In the middle of the night, a little old brown man carrying a lantern, or at
                    least having a light in his hand that looked like a lantern—went and unlocked
                    Jess’s stable, and patted her pretty head. At first she started, but soon she
                    grew quiet and pleased, and let him do what he chose with her. He began rubbing
                    her down, making the same funny hissing with his mouth that Bill did, and all
                    grooms do—I never could find out why. But Jess evidently liked it, and stood as
                    good as possible.
                “Isn’t it nice to be clean?” said the wee man, talking to her as if she were a
                    human being, or a Brownie. “And I dare say your poor little legs ache with standing still so long. Shall we have a run
                    together? The moon shines bright in the clear, cold night. Dear me! I’m talking
                    poetry.”
                But Brownies are not poetical fairies, quite common?place, and up to all sorts of
                    work. So, while he talked, he was saddling and bridling Jess, she not objecting
                    in the least. Finally he jumped on her back.
                “Off, said the stranger; off, off, and away!” sang Brownie, mimicking a song of
                    the cook’s. People in that house often heard their songs repeated in the oddest
                    way, from room to room, everybody fancying it was somebody else that did it. But
                    it was only the Brownie. “Now, ‘A southerly wind and a cloudy sky proclaim it a
                    hunting morning!’”
                Or night—for it was the middle of the night, though bright as day—and Jess
                    galloped and the Brownie sat on her back as merrily as if they had gone hunting
                    together all their days.
                Such a steeple?chase it was! They cleared the farmyard at a single bound, and
                    went flying down the road, and across the ploughed field, and into the wood. Then out into the open country, and by?and?bye
                    into a dark, muddy lane—and oh! how muddy Devonshire lanes can be sometimes!
                “Let’s go into the water to wash ourselves,” said Brownie, and coaxed Jess into a
                    deep stream, which she swam as bravely as possible—she had not had such a frolic
                    since she left her native Shetland Isles. Up the bank she scrambled, her long
                    hair dripping as if she had been a water?dog instead of a pony. Brownie too
                    shook himself like a rat or a beaver, throwing a shower round him in all
                    directions.
                “Never mind, at it again, my lass!” and he urged Jess into the water once more.
                    Out she came, wetter and brisker than ever, and went back home through the lane,
                    and the wood, and the ploughed field, galloping like the wind, and tossing back
                    her ears and mane and tail, perfectly frantic with enjoyment.
                But when she reached her stable, the plight she was in would have driven any
                    respectable groom frantic too. Her sides were white with foam, and the mud was
                    sticking all over her like a plaister. As for
                    her beautiful long hair, it was all caked together in a tangle, as if all the
                    combs in the world would never make it smooth again. Her mane especially was
                    plaited into knots, which people in Devonshire call elf?locks, and say, when
                    they find them on their horses, that it is because the fairies have been riding
                    them.
                Certainly, poor Jess had been pretty well ridden that night! When, just as the
                    dawn began to break, Gardener got up and looked into the farmyard, his sharp eye
                    caught sight of the stable?door, wide open.
                “Well done, Bill,” shouted he, “up early at last. One hour before breakfast is
                    worth three after.”
                But no Bill was there; only Jess, trembling and shaking, all in a foam, and muddy
                    from head to foot, but looking perfectly cheerful in her mind. And out from
                    under her forelegs ran a small creature, which Gardener mistook for Tiny, only
                    Tiny was grey, and this dog was brown, of course!
                I should not like to tell you all that was said to Bill, when, an hour after
                    breakfast?time, he came skulking up to the
                    farm. In fact, words failing, Gardener took a good stick and laid it about
                    Bill’s shoulders, saying he would either do this, or tell the mistress of him,
                    and how he had left the stable?door open all night, and some bad fellow had
                    stolen Jess, and galloped her all across the country, till, if she hadn’t been
                    the cleverest pony in the world, she never could have got back again.
                Bill durst not contradict his explanation of the story. Especially as the key was
                    found hanging up in its proper place by the kitchen door. And when he went to
                    fetch it, he heard the most extraordinary sound in the coal?cellar close by—like
                    somebody snoring or laughing. Bill took to his heels, and did not come back for
                    a whole hour.
                But when he did come back, he made himself as busy as possible. He cleaned Jess,
                    which as half?a?day’s work at least. Then he took the little people a ride, and
                    afterwards put his stable in the most beautiful order, and altogether was such a
                    changed Bill, that Gardener told him he must have left himself at home and
                    brought back somebody else.
                
                Whether or not, the boy certainly improved, so that there was less occasion to
                    find fault with him afterwards.
                Jess lived to be quite an old pony, and carried a great many people—little people
                    always, for she herself never grew any bigger. But I don’t think she ever
                    carried a Brownie again.
                 
            
            
            
                ADVENTURE THE FIFTH.
                BROWNIE ON THE ICE.
                WINTER was a grand time with the six little children, especially when
                    they had frost and snow. This happened seldom enough for it to be the greatest
                    possible treat when it did happen; and it never
                    lasted very long, for the winters are warm in Devonshire.
                There was a little lake three fields off, which made the most splendid sliding
                    place imaginable. No skaters went near it, it was not large enough; and besides,
                    there was nobody to skate, the neighbourhood being lonely. The lake itself
                    looked the loneliest place imaginable. It was not very deep, not deep enough to
                    drown a man, but it had a gravelly bottom and was always very clear. Also the
                    trees round it grew so thick that they sheltered it completely from the wind; so
                    when it did freeze, it generally froze as smooth as a sheet of glass.
                “The lake bears!” was such a grand event, and so rare, that when it did occur,
                    the news came at once to the farm, and the children carried it as quickly to
                    their mother. For she had promised them that, if such a thing did happen this
                    year—it did not happen every year—lessons should be stopped entirely, and they
                    should all go down to the lake and slide, if they liked, all day long.
                So, one morning just before Christmas, the eldest boy ran in with a countenance
                    of great delight.
                
                “Mother, mother, the lake bears!” (It was rather a compliment to call it a lake,
                    it being only about twenty yards across and forty long). “The lake really
                    bears!”
                “Who says so?”
                “Bill. Bill has been on it for an hour this morning, and has made us two such
                    beautiful slides, he says—an up?slide and a down?slide. May we go to them
                    directly?”
                The mother hesitated.
                “You promised, you know,” pleaded the children.
                “Very well, then; only be careful.”
                “And may we slide all day long, and never come home for dinner or anything?”
                “Yes, if you like. Only Gardener must go with you, and stay all day.”
                This they did not like at all; nor, when Gardener was spoken to, did he.
                “You bothering children! I wish you may all get a good ducking in the lake! Serve
                    you right for making me lose a day’s work, just to look after you little
                    monkeys. I’ve a great mind to tell your mother I won’t do it.”
                
                But he did not, being fond of his mistress. He was also fond of his work, but he
                    had no notion of play. I think the saying of “All work and no play makes Jack a
                    dull boy” must have been applied to him, for Gardener, whatever he had been as a
                    boy, was certainly a dull and melancholy man. The children used to say that if
                    he and idle Bill could have been kneaded into one, and baked in the oven—a very
                    warm oven—they would have come out rather a pleasant person.
                As it was, Gardener was anything but a pleasant person, above all to spend a long
                    day with—and on the ice, where one needs all one’s cheerfulness and good?humour
                    to bear pinched fingers and numbed toes, and trips, and tumbles, and various
                    uncomfortablenesses.
                “He’ll growl at us all day long—he’ll be a regular spoil?sport!” lamented the
                    children. “Oh! mother, mightn’t we go alone?”
                “No!” said the mother; and her “No” meant no, though she was always very kind.
                    They argued the point no more, but started off, rather downhearted. But soon they regained their spirits, for it was a
                    bright, clear, frosty day: the sun shining, though not enough to melt the ice,
                    and just sufficient to lie like a thin sprinkling over the grass, and turn the
                    brown branches into white ones. The little people danced along to keep
                    themselves warm, carrying between them a basket which held their lunch. A very
                    harmless lunch it was, just a large brown loaf and a lump of cheese, and a knife
                    to cut it with. Tossing the basket about in their fun they managed to tumble the
                    knife out, and were having a search for it in the long grass when Gardener came
                    up, grumpily enough.
                “To think of trusting you children with one of the table?knives and a basket!
                    what a fool cook must be! I’ll tell her so, and if they’re lost she’ll blame me;
                    give me the things.”
                He put the knife angrily in one pocket;—“Perhaps it will cut a hole in it,” said
                    one of the children, in rather a pleased tone than otherwise;—then he turned the
                    lunch all out on the grass and crammed it in the other pocket, hiding the basket
                    behind a hedge.
                
                “I’m sure I’ll not be at the trouble of carrying it,” said he, when the children
                    cried out at this, “and you sha’n’t carry it either, for you’ll knock it about
                    and spoil it. And as for your lunch getting warm in my pocket, why, so much the
                    better this cold day.”
                It was not a lively joke, and they knew his pocket was very dirty; indeed, the
                    little girls had seen him stuff a dead rat into it only the day before. They
                    looked ready to cry, but there was no help for them, except going back and
                    complaining to their mother, and they did not like to do that. Besides, they
                    knew that though Gardener was cross, he was trustworthy, and she would never let
                    them go down to the lake without him.
                So they followed him, trying to be as good as they could—though it was difficult
                    work. One of them proposed pelting him with snow?balls, as they pelted each
                    other. But at the first—which fell in his neck—he turned round so furiously,
                    that they never sent a second, but walked behind him as meek as mice.
                
                As they went they heard little steps pattering after them.
                “Perhaps it is the Brownie coming to play with us—I wish he would,” whispered the
                    youngest girl to the eldest boy, whose hand she generally held; and then the
                    little pattering steps sounded again, travelling through the snow, but they saw
                    nobody—so they said nothing.
                The children would have liked to go straight to the ice: but Gardener insisted on
                    taking them a mile round, to look at an extraordinary animal which a farmer
                    there had just got—sent by his brother in Australia. The two old men stood
                    gossiping so long that the children wearied extremely. Every minute seemed an
                    hour till they got on the ice.
                At last one of them pulled Gardener’s coat?tails, and whispered that they were
                    quite ready to go.
                “Then I’m not,” and he waited ever so much longer, and got a drink of hot cider,
                    which made him quite lively for a little while.
                But by the time they reached the lake, he was as
                    cross as ever. He struck the ice with his stick, but made no attempt to see if
                    it really did bear—though he would not allow the children to go one step upon it
                    till he had tried.
                “I know it doesn’t bear, and you’ll just have to go home again—good thing
                    too—saves me from losing a day’s work.”
                “Try, only try; Bill said it bore,” implored the boys, and looked wistfully at
                    the two beautiful slides—just as Bill said, one up and one down—stretching all
                    across the lake; “of course it bears, or Bill could not have made these
                    slides.”
                “Bill’s an ass!” said the Gardener, and put his heavy foot cautiously on the ice.
                    Just then there was seen jumping across it, a creature which certainly had never
                    been seen on ice before. It made the most extraordinary bounds on its long hind
                    legs, with its little fore legs tucked up in front of it as if it wanted to
                    carry a muff; and its long stiff tail sticking out straight behind to balance
                    itself with, apparently. The children at first started with surprise, and then
                    burst out laughing, for it was the funniest
                    creature, and had the funniest way of getting along, that they had ever seen in
                    their lives.
                “It’s the kangaroo!” cried Gardener in great excitement. “It has got loose—and
                    it’s sure to be lost—and what a way Mr. Giles will be in! I must go and tell
                    him. Or stop, I’ll try and catch it.”
                But in vain—it darted once or twice across the ice, dodging him, as it were; and
                    once coming so close that he nearly caught it by the tail—to the children’s
                    great delight—then it vanished entirely.
                “I must go and tell Mr. Giles directly,” said Gardener, and then stopped. For he
                    had promised not to leave the children—and it was such a wild?goose chase after
                    an escaped kangaroo. But he might get half?a?crown as a reward, and he was sure
                    of another glass of cider.
                “You just stop quiet here, and I’ll be back in five minutes,” said he to the
                    children. “You may go a little way on the ice—I think it’s sound enough; only
                    mind you don’t tumble in, for there’ll be nobody to pull you out.”
                
                “Oh, no,” said the children, clapping their hands. They did not care for tumbling
                    in, and were quite glad there was nobody there to pull them out. They hoped
                    Gardener would stop a very long time away—only, as some one suggested when he
                    was seen hurrying across the snowy field—he had taken away their lunch in his
                    pocket, too.
                “Never mind—we’re not hungry yet. Now for a slide.”
                Off they darted, the three elder boys, with a good run; the biggest of the girls
                    followed after them, and soon the whole four were skimming one after the other,
                    as fast as a railway train, across the slippery ice. And like a railway train,
                    they had a collision, and all came tumbling one over the other, with great
                    screaming and laughter, to the high bank on the other side.
                The two younger ones stood mournfully watching the others from the opposite
                    bank—when there stood beside them a small brown man.
                “Ho?ho! little people,” said he, coming between them and taking hold of a hand of
                    each. His was so warm and theirs so cold, that
                    it was quite comfortable. And then somehow they found in their open mouths a
                    nice lozenge—I think it was peppermint, but am not sure—which comforted them
                    still more.
                “Did you want me to play with you?” cried the Brownie, “then here I am! What
                    shall we do? Have a turn on the ice together?”
                No sooner said than done. The two little children felt themselves floating
                    along—it was more like floating than running—with Brownie between them; up the
                    lake, and down the lake, and across the lake, not at all interfering with the
                    sliders—indeed, it was a great deal better than sliding. Rosy and breathless,
                    their toes so nice and warm, and their hands feeling like mince?pies just taken
                    out of the oven—the little ones came to a stand?still.
                The elder ones stopped their sliding, and looked towards Brownie with entreating
                    eyes. He swung himself up to a willow?bough, and then turned head over heels on
                    to the ice.
                “Hallo, you don’t mean to say you big ones want
                    a race too. Well, come along—if the two eldest will give a slide to the little
                    ones.”
                He watched them take a tiny sister between them, and slide her up one slide and
                    down another, screaming with delight. Then he took the two middle children in
                    either hand.
                “One, two, three, and away!” Off they started—scudding along as light as feathers
                    and as fast as steam?engines over the smooth black ice, so clear that they could
                    see the bits of stick and water?grasses frozen in it, and even the little fishes
                    swimming far down below—if they had only looked long enough.
                When all had had their fair turns, they began to be frightfully hungry.
                “Catch a fish for dinner, and I’ll lend you a hook,” said Brownie. At which they
                    all laughed and then looked rather grave. Pulling a cold, raw, live fish from
                    under the ice, and eating it, was not a pleasant idea of dinner. “Well, what
                    would you like to have? Let the little one choose.”
                She said, after thinking a minute, that she should like a currant cake.
                
                “And I’d give you all a bit of it—a very large bit—I would indeed!” added she,
                    almost with the tears in her eyes—she was so very hungry.
                “Do it then!” said the Brownie in his little squeaking voice.
                Immediately the stone that the little girl was sitting on, a round hard stone and
                    so cold! turned into a nice hot cake—so hot that she jumped up directly. As soon
                    as she saw what it was, she clapped her hands for joy.
                “Oh what a beautiful, beautiful cake! only we haven’t got a knife to cut it.”
                The boys felt in all their pockets, but somehow their knives never were there
                    when they were wanted.
                “Look! you’ve got one in your hand!” said Brownie to the little one; and that
                    minute a bit of stick she held turned into a bread?knife—silver, with an ivory
                    handle—big enough and sharp enough, without being too sharp. For the youngest
                    girl was not allowed to use sharp knives, though she liked cutting things
                    excessively, especially cakes.
                
                “That will do. Sit you down and carve the dinner. Fair shares, and don’t let any
                    body eat too much. Now begin, ma’am,” said the Brownie, quite politely, as if
                    she had been ever so old.
                Oh, how proud the little girl was! How bravely she set to work, and cut five of
                    the biggest slices you ever saw, and gave them to her brothers and sisters, and
                    was just going to take the sixth slice for herself, when she remembered the
                    Brownie.
                “I beg your pardon,” said she, as politely as he, though she was such a very
                    little girl—and turned round to the wee brown man. But he was no where to be
                    seen. The slices of cake in the children’s hands remained cake, and uncommonly
                    good it was, and such substantial eating that it did nearly the same as dinner;
                    but the cake itself turned suddenly to a stone again, and the knife into a bit
                    of stick.
                For there was the Gardener, coming clumping along by the bank of the lake, and
                    growling as he went.
                “Have you got the kangaroo?” shouted the children, determined to be civil if
                    possible.
                “This place is bewitched, I think”’ said he. “The kangaroo was fast asleep in the cowshed. What! how dare you laugh at me?”
                But they hadn’t laughed at all. And they found it no laughing matter, poor
                    children, when Gardener came on the ice, and began to scold them and order them
                    about. He was perfectly savage with crossness, for the people at Giles’s Farm
                    had laughed at him very much, and he did not like to be laughed at—and at the
                    top of the field he had by chance met his mistress, and she had asked him
                    severely how he could think of leaving the children alone.
                Altogether his conscience pricked him a good deal; and when people’s consciences
                    prick them, sometimes they get angry with other people, which is very silly and
                    only makes matters worse.
                “What have you been doing all this time?” said he.
                “All this five minutes?” said the eldest boy mischievously; for Gardener was only
                    to be away five minutes, and he had stayed a full hour. Also, when he fumbled in
                    his pocket for the children’s lunch—to stop their tongues perhaps—he found it
                    was not there.
                
                They set up a great outcry—for in spite of the cake, they could have eaten a
                    little more. Indeed the frost had such an effect upon all their appetites that
                    they felt not unlike that celebrated gentleman of whom it is told that 
                        “He ate a cow, and ate a calf,
                        He ate an ox and ate a half;
                        He ate a church, he ate the steeple,
                        He ate the priest, and all people,
                        And said he hadn’t had enough then.”
                    
                “We’re so hungry, so very hungry. Couldn’t you go back again and fetch us some
                    dinner?” cried they entreatingly.
                “Not I indeed. You may go back to dinner yourselves. You shall indeed, for I want
                    my dinner too. Two hours is plenty long enough to stop on the
                    ice.”
                “It isn’t two hours—it’s only one.”
                “Well, one will do better than more. You’re all right now—and you might soon
                    tumble in, or break your legs on the slide. So come away home.”
                It wasn’t kind of Gardener, and I don’t wonder
                    the children felt it hard; indeed, the eldest boy resisted stoutly.
                “Mother said we might stop all day, and we will stop all day. You may go home if
                    you like.”
                “I won’t, and you shall!” said Gardener, smacking a whip that he carried in his
                    hand. “Stop till I catch you, and I’ll give you this about your beak, my fine
                    gentleman.”
                And he tried to follow, but the little fellow darted across the ice—objecting to
                    be either caught or whipped. It may have been rather naughty, but I am afraid it
                    was great fun, dodging the Gardener up and down; he being too timid to go on the
                    slippery ice, and sometimes getting so close that the whip nearly touched the
                    lad.
                “Bless us! there’s the kangaroo again!” said he, starting. Just as he had caught
                    the boy, and lifted the whip, the creature was seen hop?hopping from bank to
                    bank. “I can’t surely be mistaken this time; I must catch it.”
                Which seemed quite easy, for it limped as if it was lame, or as if the frost had
                    bitten its toes, poor beast; Gardener went
                    after it, walking cautiously on the slippery, crackling ice, and never minding
                    whether or not he walked on the slides, though they called out to him that his
                    nailed boots would spoil them.
                But whether it was that ice which bears a boy will not bear a man, or whether, at
                    each lame step of the kangaroo, there came a great crack, is more than I can
                    tell. However, just as Gardener reached the middle of the lake, the ice suddenly
                    broke and in he popped.—The kangaroo too, apparently, for it was not seen
                    afterwards.
                What a hulla?balloo the poor man made! Not that he was drowning—the lake was too
                    shallow to drown anybody; but he got terribly wet, and the water was very cold.
                    He soon scrambled out, the boys helping him; and then he hobbled home as fast as
                    he could, not even saying thank you, or taking the least notice of them.
                Indeed, nobody took any notice of them—nobody came to fetch them, and they might
                    have stayed sliding the whole afternoon. Only somehow they did not feel quite
                    easy in their minds. And though the hole in the
                    ice closed up immediately, and it seemed as firm as ever, still they did not
                    like to slide upon it again.
                “I think we had better go home and tell mother everything,” said one of them.
                    “Besides, we ought to see what has become of poor Gardener. He was very
                    wet.”
                “Yes; but oh, how funny he looked!” And they all burst out laughing at the
                    recollection of the figure he cut, scrambling out through the ice with his
                    trousers dripping up to the knees, and the water running out of his boots,
                    making a little pool wherever he stepped.
                “And it freezes so hard that by the time he gets home his clothes will be as
                    stiff as a board. His wife will have to put him to the fire to thaw before he
                    can get out of them.”
                Again the little people burst into shouts of laughter. Although they laughed they
                    were a little sorry for poor old Gardener, and hoped no great harm had come to
                    him, but that he had got safe home and been dried by his own warm fire.
                
                The frosty mist was beginning already to rise, and the sun, though still high up
                    in the sky, looked like a ball of red?hot iron, as the six children went
                    homeward across the fields—merry enough still, but not quite so merry as they
                    had been a few hours before.
                “Let’s hope mother won’t be vexed with us,” 
                    said they, “but will let as come back again to?morrow. It wasn’t our fault that
                    Gardener tumbled in.”
                As somebody said this, they all heard quite distinctly, “Ha, ha, ha,” and “Ho,
                    ho, ho,” and a sound of little steps pattering behind.
                But whatever they thought, nobody ventured to say that it was the fault of the
                    Brownie.
            
            
            
                ADVENTURE THE SIXTH AND LAST.
                BROWNIE AND THE CLOTHES.
                TILL the next time: but when there is a Brownie in the house, no one can
                    say that any of his tricks will be the last. For there’s no stopping a Brownie,
                    and no getting rid of him either. This one had followed the family from house to house, generation after
                    generation—never any older, and sometimes seeming even to grow younger, by the
                    tricks he played. In fact, though he looked like an old man, he was a perpetual
                    child.
                To the children he never did any harm, quite the contrary. And his chief
                    misdoings were against those who vexed the children. But he gradually made
                    friends with several of his grown?up enemies. Cook, for instance, who had ceased
                    to be lazy at night, and late in the morning, found no more black foot?marks on
                    her white table?cloth. And Brownie found his basin of milk waiting for him,
                    night after night, behind the coal?cellar door.
                Bill, too, got on well enough with his pony, and Jess was taken no more
                    night?rides. No ducks were lost—and Dolly gave her milk quite comfortably to
                    whoever milked her. Alas! this was either Bill or the Gardener’s wife now. After
                    that adventure on the ice, poor Gardener very seldom appeared; when he did, it
                    was on two crutches, for he had had rheumatism in his feet, and could not stir
                    outside his cottage door. Bill, therefore, had
                    double work; which was probably all the better for Bill.
                The garden had to take care of itself, but this being winter?time it did not much
                    signify. Besides, Brownie seldom went into the garden, except in summer; during
                    the hard weather he preferred to stop in his coal?cellar. It might not have been
                    a lively place, but it was warm, and he liked it.
                He had company there too, for when the cat had more kittens—the kitten he used to
                    tease being grown up now—they were all put in a hamper in the coal?cellar; and
                    of cold nights Brownie used to jump in beside them and be as warm and as cosy as
                    a kitten himself. The little things never were heard to mew, so it may be
                    supposed they liked his society. And the old mother cat evidently bore him no
                    malice for the whipping she had got by mistake, so Brownie must have found means
                    of coaxing her over. One thing you may be sure of, all the while she and her
                    kittens were in his coal?cellar he took care never to turn himself into a
                    mouse.
                He was spending the winter on the whole very
                    comfortably—without much trouble either to himself or his neighbours, when one
                    day, the coal?cellar being nearly empty, two men, and a great waggon?load of
                    coals behind them, came to the door, Gardener’s wife following.
                “My man says you’re to give the cellar a good cleaning out before you put any
                    more in,” said she, in her sharp voice; “and don’t be lazy about it. It’ll not
                    take you ten minutes, for it’s nearly all coal?dust, except that one big lump in
                    the corner—you might clear that out too.”
                “Stop, it’s the Brownie’s lump! better not meddle with it,” whispered the little
                    scullery?maid.
                “Don’t you meddle with matters that can’t concern you,” said the Gardener’s wife,
                    who had been thinking what a nice help it would be to her fire. To be sure, it
                    was not her lump of coal, but she thought she might take it; the mistress would
                    never miss it, or the Brownie either. He must be a very silly old Brownie to
                    live under a lump of coal.
                So she argued with herself, and made the men lift it. “You must lift it, you see,
                    if you are to sweep the coal?cellar out clean.
                    And you may as well put it on the barrow, and I’ll wheel it out of your
                    way.”
                This she said in quite a civil voice, lest they should tell of her, and stood by
                    while it was being done. It was done without anything happening, except that a
                    large rat ran out of the coal?cellar door, bouncing against her feet and
                    frightening her so much that she nearly tumbled down.
                “See what nonsense it is to talk of Brownies living in a coal?cellar. Nothing
                    lives there but rats, and I’ll have them poisoned pretty soon, and get rid of
                    them.”
                But she was rather frightened all the same, for the rat had been such a very big
                    rat, and had looked at her as it darted past with such wild, bright, mischievous
                    eyes—brown eyes of course—that she all but jumped with surprise.
                However, she had got her lump of coal and was wheeling it quietly away, nobody
                    seeing, to her cottage at the bottom of the garden. She was a hard?worked
                    woman—and her husband’s illness made things harder for her. Still she was not
                    quite easy at taking what did not belong to her.
                
                “I don’t suppose anybody will miss the coal,” she repeated. “I daresay the
                    mistress would have given it to me if I had asked her—and as for its being the
                    Brownie’s lump—fudge! Bless us, what’s that?”
                For the barrow began to creak dreadfully, and every creak sounded like the cry of
                    a child, just as if the wheel were going over its leg and crashing its poor
                    little bones.
                “What a horrid noise! I must grease the barrow. If only I knew where they keep
                    the grease?box. All goes wrong now my old man’s laid up. O dear, O dear!”
                For suddenly the barrow had tilted over, though there was not a single stone
                    near, and the big coal was tumbled on to the ground, where it broke into a
                    thousand pieces. Gathering it up again was hopeless, and it made such a mess on
                    the gravel walk, that the old woman was thankful her misfortune happened behind
                    the privet hedge, where nobody was likely to come.
                “I’ll take a broom and sweep it up to?morrow. Nobody goes near the orchard now,
                    except me when I hang out the clothes; so I
                    need say nothing about it to the old man or anybody. But ah! deary me, what a
                    beautiful lot of coal I’ve lost!”
                She stood and looked at it mournfully and then went into her cottage, where she
                    found two or three of the little children keeping Gardener company. They did not
                    dislike to do this now—but he was so much kinder than he used to be—so quiet and
                    patient, though he suffered very much. And he had never once reproached them for
                    what they always remembered,—how it was ever since he was on the ice with them
                    that he had got the rheumatism.
                So, one or other of them made a point of going to see him every day, and telling
                    him all the funny things they could think of—indeed, it was a contest among
                    them, who should first make Gardener laugh. They did not succeed in doing that
                    exactly—but they managed to make him smile—and he was always gentle and grateful
                    to them; so that they sometimes thought it was rather nice his being ill.
                
                But his wife was not pleasant; she grumbled all day long, and snapped at him and
                    his visitors; being especially snappish this day, because she had lost her big
                    coal.
                “I can’t have you children come bothering here,” said she crossly, “I want to
                    wring out my clothes, and hang them to dry. Be off with you.”
                “Let us stop a little, just to tell Gardener this one curious thing about Dolly
                    and the pig.”
                “And then we’ll help you to take your clothes to the orchard; we can carry your
                    basket between us—we can indeed.”
                That was the last thing the woman wished; for she knew that the children would be
                    sure to see the mess on the gravel?walk—and they were such inquisitive
                    children—they noticed everything. They would want to know all about it, and how
                    the bits of coal came there. It was a very awkward position. But people who take
                    other people’s property, often do find themselves in awkward positions.
                “Thank you, young gentlemen,” said she, quite
                    politely, “but indeed, the basket is too heavy for you. However, you may stop
                    and gossip a little longer with my old man. He likes it.”
                And while they were shut up with Gardener in his bed?room, off she went, carrying
                    the basket on her head, and hung her clothes carefully out, the big things on
                    lines between the fruit trees, and the little things, such as stockings and
                    pocket?handkerchiefs, stuck on the gooseberry bushes, or spread upon the clean
                    green grass.
                “Such a fine day as it is! they’ll dry directly,” said she cheerfully to herself.
                    “Plenty of sun, and not a breath of wind to blow them about. I’ll leave them for
                    an hour or two, and come and fetch them in before it grows dark. Then I shall
                    get all my folding done by bed?time, and have a clear day for ironing
                    to?morrow.”
                But when she did fetch them in, having bundled them all together in the dusk of
                    the evening, never was such a sight as those clothes! They were all twisted in
                    the oddest way, the stockings turned inside out, with the heels and toes
                        tucked into the legs: the sleeves of the
                    shirts tied together in double knots, the pocket?handkerchiefs made into round
                    balls, so tight that if you had pelted a person with them, they would have given
                    very hard blows indeed. And the whole looked as if, instead of lying quietly on
                    the grass and bushes, they had been dragged through heaps of mud and then
                    stamped upon, so that there was not a clean inch upon them from end to end.
                “What a horrid mess!” cried the Gardener’s wife, who had been at first very
                    angry, and them very frightened. “But I know what it is; that nasty Boxer has
                    got loose again. It’s he that has done it.”
                “Boxer wouldn’t tie short?sleeves in double knots or make balls of
                    pocket?handkerchiefs,” Gardener was heard to answer solemnly.
                “Then it’s those horrid children; they are always up to some mischief or
                    other—just let me catch them.”
                “You’d better not,” said somebody in a voice exactly like Gardener’s, though he
                    himself declared he had not spoken a word.
                    Indeed, he was fast asleep.
                “Well, it’s the most extraordinary thing I ever heard of,” the Gardener’s wife
                    said—supposing she was talking to her husband all the time; but soon she held
                    her tongue, for she found here and there among the clothes all sorts of queer
                    marks—marks of fingers and toes and heels, not in mud at all but in coal?dust,
                    as black as black could be.
                Now as the place where the big coal had tumbled out of the barrow was fully fifty
                    yards from the orchard, and as the coal could not come to the clothes, and the
                    clothes could not go without hands, the only conclusion she could arrive at
                    was—well, no particular conclusion at all!
                It was too late that night to begin washing again; besides, she was extremely
                    tired, and her husband woke up rather worse than usual, so she just bundled the
                    clothes up anyhow in a corner, put the kitchen to rights, and went mournfully to
                    bed.
                Next morning she got up long before it was light, washed her clothes through all
                    over again, and it being impossible to dry
                    them by the fire, went out with them once more, and began spreading them out in
                    their usual corner in a hopeless and melancholy manner. While she was at it, the
                    little folks came trooping around her. She didn’t scold them this time, she was
                    too low?spirited.
                “No! my old man isn’t any better, and I don’t fancy he ever will be,” said she,
                    in answer to their questions. “And everything’s going wrong with us—just
                    listen!” And she told the trick which had been played her about the clothes.
                The little people tried not to laugh, but it was so funny. And even now, the
                    minute she had done hanging them out, there was something so droll in the way
                    the clothes blew about, without any wind; the shirts hanging with their necks
                    downwards, as if there was a man inside them; and the drawers standing stiffly
                    astride on the gooseberry?bushes, for all the world as if they held a pair of
                    legs still. As for Gardener’s nightcaps—long white cotton, with a tassel at the
                    top—they were alarming to look at; just like a head stuck on the top of a
                    pole.
                
                The whole thing was so peculiar, and the old woman so comical in her despair,
                    that the children, after trying hard to keep it in, at last broke into shouts of
                    laughter. She turned furiously upon them.
                “It was you who did it.”
                “No, indeed it wasn’t!” said they, jumping further to escape her blows. For she
                    had got one of her clothes?props, and was laying about her in the most reckless
                    manner. However, she hurt nobody, and then she suddenly burst out, not laughing,
                    but crying.
                “It’s a cruel thing, whoever has done it, to play such tricks on a poor old body
                    like me, with a sick husband that she works hard for, and not a child to help
                    her. But I don’t care. I’ll wash my clothes again, if it’s twenty times over—and
                    I’ll hang them out again in the very place, just to make you all ashamed of
                    yourselves.”
                Perhaps the little people were ashamed of themselves, though they really had not
                    done the mischief. But they knew quite well who had done it, and more than once
                    they were about to tell; only, they were afraid if they did so, they should vex
                    the Brownie so much that he would never come
                    and play with them any more.
                So they looked at one another without speaking, and when the Gardener’s wife had
                    emptied her basket and dried her eyes, they said to her very kindly:?
                “Perhaps no harm may come to your clothes this time. We’ll sit and watch them
                    till they are dry.”
                “Just as you like; I don’t care. Them that hides can find, and them that plays
                    tricks knows how to stop ’em.”
                It was not a civil speech, but then things were hard for the poor old woman. She
                    had been awake nearly all night, and up washing at daybreak: her eyes were red
                    with crying, and her steps weary and slow. The little children felt quite sorry
                    for her, and instead of going to play sat watching the clothes as patiently as
                    possible.
                Nothing came near them. Sometimes, as before, the things seemed to dance about
                    without hands, and turn into odd shapes as if there were people inside them; but
                    not a creature was seen, and not a sound was
                    heard. And though there was neither wind nor sun, very soon all the linen was
                    perfectly dry.
                “Fetch one of mother’s baskets, and we’ll fold it up as tidily as possible,—that
                    is, the girls can do it, it’s their business,—and we boys will carry it safe to
                    Gardener’s cottage.”
                So said they, not liking to say that they could not trust it out of their sight
                    for fear of Brownie—whom, indeed, they were expecting to see peer round from
                    every bush. They began to have a secret fear that he was rather a naughty
                    Brownie, but then, as the eldest little girl whispered, “he was only a Brownie,
                    and knew no better.” Now they were growing quite big children, who would be men
                    and women some time; when they hoped they would never do anything wrong. (Their
                    parents hoped the same, but doubted it.)
                In a serious and careful manner they folded up the clothes, and laid them one by
                    one in the basket without any mischief, until just as the two biggest boys were
                    lifting their burthen to carry it away, they felt something tugging at it from
                    underneath.
                
                “Hallo! Where are you taking all this rubbish? Better give it to me.”
                “No, if you please,” said they, very civilly, not to offend the little brown man.
                    “We’ll not trouble you, thanks! We’d rather do it ourselves: for poor old
                    Gardener is very ill, and his wife is very miserable, and we are extremely sorry
                    for them both.”
                “Extremely sorry!” cried Brownie, throwing up his cap in the air, and tumbling
                    head over heels in an excited manner. “What in the world does extremely sorry
                    mean?”
                The children could not explain, especially to a Brownie, but they thought they
                    understood—anyhow they felt it. And they looked so sorrowful that the Brownie
                    could not tell what to make of it.
                He could not be said to be sorry, since, being a Brownie and not a human being
                    knowing right from wrong, he never tried particularly to do right, and had no
                    idea when he was doing wrong. But he seemed to have an idea that he was
                    troubling the children, and he never liked to see them look unhappy.
                
                So he turned head over heels six times running and then came back again.
                “The silly old woman! I washed her clothes for her last night in a way she didn’t
                    expect. I hadn’t any soap, so I used a little mud and coal?dust, and very pretty
                    they looked. Ha, ha, ha! Shall I wash them over again to?night?”
                “Oh, no, please don’t!” implored the children.
                “Shall I starch and iron them? I’ll do it beautifully. One—two—three,
                    five—six—seven, Abracadabra, tum—tum—ti!” shouted he, jabbering all sorts of
                    nonsense, as it seemed to the children, and playing such antics that they stood
                    and stared in the utmost amazement, and quite forgot the clothes. When they
                    looked round again, the basket was gone. 
                        “Seek till you find, seek till you find,
                        Under the biggest gooseberry?bush, exactly to your mind.”
                    
                They heard him singing this remarkable rhyme, long after they had lost sight of
                    him. And then they all set about searching, but it was a long while before they
                    found, and still longer before they could
                    decide which was the biggest gooseberry?bush, each child having his or her
                    opinion—sometimes a very strong one—on the matter. At last they agreed to settle
                    it by pulling half?a?dozen little sticks, to see which stick was the longest,
                    and the child that held it was to decide the gooseberry?bush.
                This done, underneath the branches what should they find but the identical basket
                    of clothes! only instead of being roughly dried, they were all starched and
                    ironed in the most beautiful manner. As for the shirts they really were a
                    picture to behold, and the stockings were all folded up and even darned in one
                    or two places as neatly as possible. And strange to tell, there was not a single
                    black mark of feet or fingers on any one of them.
                “Kind little Brownie! clever little Brownie!” cried the children in chorus, and
                    thought this was the most astonishing trick he had ever played.
                What the Gardener’s wife said about it, whether they told her anything, or
                    allowed her to suppose that the clothes had been done in their own laundry
                    instead of the Brownie’s (wherever that establishment might be), is more than I
                    can tell. Of one thing only I am certain—that
                    the little people said nothing but what was true. Also that the very minute they
                    got home they told their mother everything.
                But for a long time after that they were a good deal troubled. Gardener got
                    better, and went hobbling about the place again, to his own and everybody’s
                    great content, and his wife was less sharp?tongued and complaining than
                    usual—indeed, she had nothing to complain of. All the family were very
                    flourishing—except the little Brownie.
                Often there was heard a serious sound all over the house; it might have been rats
                    squeaking behind the wainscot—the elders said it was—at the children were sure
                    it was a sort of weeping and wailing. 
                        “They’ve stolen my coal,
                        And I haven’t a hole
                        To hide in;
                        Not even a house
                        One could ask a mouse
                        To bide in.”
                    
                A most forlorn tune it was, ending in a dreary
                    minor key, and it lasted for months and months—at least the children said it
                    did. And they were growing quite dull for want of a playfellow, when by the
                    greatest good luck in the world, there came to the house, not only a new lot of
                    kittens, but a new baby. And the new baby was everybody’s pet—including the
                    Brownie’s.
                From that time, though he was not often seen, he was continually heard up and
                    down the staircase where he was frequently mistaken for Tiny or the cat, and
                    sent sharply down again, which was wasting a great deal of wholesome anger upon
                    Mr. Nobody. Or he lurked in odd corners of the nursery, whither the baby was
                    seen crawling eagerly after nothing in particular, or sitting, laughing with all
                    her might, at something—probably her own toes.
                But as Brownie was never seen, he was never suspected. And since he did no
                    mischief, neither pinched the baby nor broke the toys, left no soap in the bath
                    and no foot?marks about the room, but was always a well?conducted Brownie in
                    every way, he was allowed to inhabit the nursery (or supposed to
                     do so, since as nobody saw him, nobody could
                    prevent him), until the children were grown up into men and women.
                After that he retired into his coal?cellar, and for all I know he may live there
                    still, and have gone through hundreds of adventures since—but as I never heard
                    them I can’t tell them. Only I think if I could be a little child again, I
                    should exceedingly like a Brownie to play with me. Should not you?
                 
            
            PRINTED BY WHITTINGHAM AND WILKINS, TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE.
        
    
