
     ----CITATION----
        Nesbit, E. (Edith) (1858-1924). A Pomander of Verse. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 104 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2000-Aug-21).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7128
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                Of this Edition 750 copies have been printed for England and America.
            
            
                
                    A POMANDER OF VERSE 
                
                BY E. NESBIT
                
                
                    LONDON: 
                    JOHN LANE AT THE BODLEY HEAD
                    CHICAGO:
                    A.C. McCLURG AND CO.
                
                1895
            
            
            
                DEDICATION
                TO MY FRIEND MARSHALL STEELE
            
            
                
                CONTENTS
                
                    AMBERGRIS 
                        The Spider Queen 3
                        The Golden Rose 6
                        Inspiration 8
                        Flower of Aloe 9
                        The Lost Embassy 11
                        The Gift of the Gods 13
                        
                    LAVENDER 
                        Lullaby 17
                        Child's Song in Spring 18
                        Dream-dew 19
                        Day and Night 20
                        The Spell 21
                        Seed-time and Harvest 23
                        Surrender 25
                        
                    
                    ROSE 
                        Song of the Rose 29
                        Morning 30
                        A Garden of Girls 31
                        Margaret 32
                            The Glow-worm to her Love 34
                        In Sanctuary 36
                        In the Rose Garden 38
                        
                    ROSEMARY 
                        A Song of Partings 41
                        The Ghost 46
                        The Way of the Wood 47
                        Quieta ne Movete 48
                        Envoys 49
                        The Garden 50
                        Through the Wood 51
                        A Kentish Garden 52
                        
                    MYRRH 
                        The Past 57
                        The Better Part 59
                        The Gray Folk 60
                        The Treasure 61
                        New Year Snow 62
                        Love's Guerdons 63
                        
                    
                    MUSK 
                        Indiscretion 67
                        The Invitation 68
                            To One who bade him Work 69
                        The Claim 70
                        To his Lady 72
                        The Charm 74
                        Deferred 75
                        Spring Song 76
                        
                    BERGAMOT 
                        Villeggiature 79
                        Town and Country 80
                        Rejected 81
                        Compensation 82
                        The Last Ditch 83
                        The Choice 85
                        A Comedy 86
                        The End 88
                        
                
            
            
                
                Some of these Poems have appeared in THE PALL MALL GAZETTE, and
                    elsewhere
            
        
        
            
                
                AMBERGRIS
                
                    
                    THE SPIDER QUEEN
                    
                        IN the deep heart of furthest fairyland
                        Where foot of man has never trodden yet
                        The enchanted portals of her palace stand,
                        And there her sleepless sentinels are set.
                    
                    
                        All round grow forests of white eglantine
                        And drooping, dreaming clematis; there blows
                        The purple nightshade; there pale bindweeds twine
                        And there the pale, frail flower of slumber grows.
                    
                    
                        Her palaces are decked with gleaming wings,
                        Hung o'er with webs through spacious bower and hall,
                        Filled through and through with precious priceless things;
                        She is their mistress and she hates them all.
                    
                    
                    
                        No darkling webs, woven in dust and gloom,
                        Adorn her palace walls; there gleam astir
                        Live threads of light, spun for a fairy's loom,
                        And stolen by her slaves and brought to her.
                    
                    
                        She wears a robe woven of the July sun,
                        Mixed with green threads won from the East at dawn,
                        Bordered with silver moonrays, finely spun,
                        And gemmed with glowworms from some shadowy lawn.
                    
                    
                        She wears a crown of dewdrops bright like tears,
                        Her girdle is a web of rainbow dyes;
                        She knows no youth, nor age; the hours and years
                        Leave never a shadow on her lips and eyes.
                    
                    
                        In magic rings of green and glistening light
                        Her fairies dance, in star-spun raiment clad,
                        Her people do her bidding day and night,
                        Her dark-robed servants toil to make her glad.
                    
                    
                        Her minstrels play to her—her singers raise
                        Soft songs, more sweet than man has ever heard,
                        
                        With endless rhythms of love her courtiers praise,
                        And all their heart is in their every word.
                    
                    
                        She is the mistress of all things that set
                        Snare of fine webs to win their hearts' desire,
                        Queen of all folk who weave the death-strong net
                        Between the poppy and the wild-rose briar.
                    
                    
                        Yet sits despair upon that brow of hers,
                        And sorrow in her eyes makes festival;
                        The soul of grief with her sad soul confers,
                        And she sits lonely in her crowded hall;
                    
                    
                        Because she has woven a web of her bright hair—
                        A tear-bright web, to catch one soul; and he
                        Beheld her, in her beauty, set the snare,
                        And seeing laughed, and laughing passed out free!
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE GOLDEN ROSE
                    
                        A POOR lost princess, weary and worn,
                        Came over the down by the wind-washed moor,
                        And the king looked out on her grace forlorn,
                        And he took her in at his palace door.
                    
                    
                        He made her queen, he gave her a crown,
                        Bidding her rest and be glad and gay
                        In his golden town, with a golden gown,
                        And a new gold lily every day.
                    
                    
                        But the crown is heavy, the gold gown gray,
                        And the queen's pale breast is like autumn snows;
                        For he brings a gold lily every day,
                        But no king gathers the golden rose.
                    
                    
                        One came at last to the palace keep
                        By worlds of water and leagues of land,
                        Gray were his garments, his eyes were deep,
                        And he held the golden rose in his hand.
                    
                    
                    
                        She left gold gown, gold town, gold crown,
                        And followed him straight to a world apart,
                        And he left her asleep on the wind-washed down,
                        With the golden rose on her quiet heart.
                    
                
                
                    
                    INSPIRATION
                    
                        I WANDERED in the enchanted wood,
                        And as I wandered there, I sang
                        A song I never understood,
                        Though sweet the music rang.
                    
                    
                        I held a lily white and fair,
                        Its perfume was a song divine,
                        A song like moonlight and clear air,
                        No rose-hued cloud like mine.
                    
                    
                        Beneath pale moon and wind-winged skies
                        My lips were dumb as one drew near,
                        Folded warm wings across my eyes
                        And whispered in my ear.
                    
                    
                        He left a flame-flower in my hand,
                        And bade me sing as heretofore
                        The song I could not understand;
                        But I can sing no more.
                    
                    
                        His secret seals my dumb lips fast,
                        My lily withered 'neath his wing;
                        But now I understand at last
                        The song I used to sing.
                    
                
                
                    
                    FLOWER OF ALOE
                    
                        HOW can I tell you how I love you, dear?
                        There is no music now the world is old;
                        The songs have all been sung, the tales all told
                        Broken the vows are all this many a year.
                    
                    
                        Had we but met when all the world was new,
                        When virgin blossoms decked untrodden fields,
                        I had plucked all the buds that summer yields
                        And woven a garland, worthy even of you.
                    
                    
                        Or had I sung when rhymes were yet unwed,
                        And crowned their marriage in the songs I made,
                        I had laid them down before you unafraid,
                        Meet offering to your grace and goodlihead.
                    
                    
                        But all the dreams are dreamed, and no new heat
                        Touches life's altars, all the scents are burnt,
                        The truths all taught and all the lessons learnt,
                        And no new stars lead kings to kiss Love's feet.
                    
                    
                    
                        For now in this grey world, of youth bereft,
                        Love has no throne, no sceptre and no crown;
                        His groves are hushed, his altars are cast down,
                        And we who worship—we have nothing left.
                    
                    
                        And yet—your lips ! The God has built him there
                        An altar which has known nor flower nor flame:
                        There may we burn the incense to Love's name,
                        There the immortal virgin rose be fair.
                    
                    
                        So—since my lips have known but one desire,
                        And all my flowers of life are vowed to you—
                        For us, at least, the old world has something new:
                        For me the altar—and for you the fire!
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE LOST EMBASSY
                    
                        THE lilies lean to the white, white rose,
                        The sweet limes send to the blossomed trees,
                        Soft kisses borne by the golden bees—
                        And all the world is alive, awake,
                        And glad to the heart for the summer's sake.
                    
                    
                        From her tower window the Princess leant,
                        Where the white light butterflies came and went;
                        She dropped soft kisses by twos and threes:
                        “White butterflies mine, will you carry these
                        To my Prince in prison? for they, who knows,
                        May break the spell that has held him close
                        And wake him and win him to stand up free
                        And laugh—in the sun—with me!”
                    
                    
                        White lilies, gold in the golden sun,
                        White Princess, gold in your golden gown—
                        Far off lies the sad, enchanted town!
                        Bright wings, light wings, white wings that tire,
                        Though they carry the flower of the heart's desire—
                        Will you trust to these, too white, too slight
                        To bring back the fruit of heart's delight?
                    
                    
                        All round and about the spell-bound town
                        The ways are dusty, the woods are brown;
                        
                        There are no green coverts, no welcoming flowers
                        For little weary butterfly wings,
                        No dew, no lilies, no glad live things.
                        'Neath the sky of steel and the brazen sun
                        White wings, kiss-laden, dropped one by one:
                        By twos and threes they dropped by the way,
                        And only one reached the grim, gray tower
                        Where, witched from his kingdom, the poor Prince lay—
                        One poor tired butterfly, smirched and gray
                        With the dust of the town and the weary way,
                        And it lit on the Prince's hand and died.
                        “Bright wings, light wings, white wings,” he cried
                        “You, only you, might have lived and borne
                        My prayer to my love in her tower forlorn,
                        And brought back the kiss that could set me free—
                        She might have broken the spell that lies
                        On my foolish heart and my foolish eyes—
                        But no live butterflies come my way!”
                    
                    
                        The winds are cold and the skies are gray,
                        And all the lilies died yesterday;
                        The Princess leans from her steel-wrought tower
                        To watch for her butterflies hour by hour.
                        Poor little Princess, you watch in vain!
                        Butterflies die where the green wood browns,
                        And kisses sent to enchanted towns
                        Never come home again.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE GIFT OF THE GODS
                    
                        “GIVE me thy dreams,” she said, and I
                        With empty hands and very poor,
                        Watched my fair flowery visions die
                        Upon the temple's marble floor.
                    
                    
                        “Give joy,” she said. I let joy go;
                        I saw with cold, unclouded eyes
                        The crimson of the sunset glow
                        Across the disenchanted skies.
                    
                    
                        “Give me thy youth,” she said. I gave,
                        And, sudden-clouded, died the sun,
                        And on the green mound of a grave
                        Fell the slow raindrops, one by one.
                    
                    
                        “Give love,” she cried. I gave that too.
                        “Give beauty.” Beauty sighed and fled;
                        For what on earth should beauty do,
                        When love, who was her life, was dead?
                    
                    
                    
                        She took the balm of innocent tears
                        To hiss upon her altar-coal;
                        She took the hopes of all my years,
                        And, at the last, she took my soul.
                    
                    
                        With heart made empty of delight,
                        And hands that held no more fair things
                        I questioned her—“What shall requite
                        The savour of my offerings?”
                    
                    
                        “The Gods,” she said, “with generous hand
                        Give guerdon for thy gifts of cost—
                        Wisdom is thine—to understand
                        The worth of all that thou hast lost!”
                    
                
            
            
                
                LAVENDER
                
                
                    
                    LULLABY
                    
                        SLEEP, sleep, my treasure,
                        The long day's pleasure
                        Has tired the birds, to their nests they creep;
                        The garden still is
                        Alight with lilies,
                        But all the daisies are fast asleep.
                    
                    
                        Sleep, sleep, my darling,
                        Dawn wakes the starling,
                        The sparrow stirs when he sees day break;
                        But all the meadow
                        Is wrapped in shadow,
                        And you must sleep till the daisies wake!
                    
                
                
                    
                    CHILD'S SONG IN SPRING
                    
                        THE silver birch is a dainty lady,
                        She wears a satin gown;
                        The elm tree makes the old churchyard shady,
                        She will not live in town.
                    
                    
                        The English oak is a sturdy fellow,
                        He gets his green coat late;
                        The willow is smart in a suit of yellow,
                        While brown the beech trees wait.
                    
                    
                        Such a gay green gown God gives the larches—
                        As green as He is good!
                        The hazels hold up their arms for arches
                        When Spring rides through the wood.
                    
                    
                        The chestnut's proud, and the lilac's pretty,
                        The poplar's gentle and tall,
                        But the plane tree's kind to the poor dull city—
                        
                                
                                I
                             love him best of all!
                    
                
                
                
                    DREAM-DEW
                    
                        WHITE bird of love, lie warm upon my breast,
                        White flower of love, lie cool against my face!
                        Teach me to dream again a little space
                        Ere this dream, too, sink earthward with the rest.
                    
                    
                        Teach me to dream my heart still pure as snow,
                        Teach me to dream my lips deserve this grace:
                        Then let me wake in some forgotten place,
                        And know you gone, but never see you go.
                    
                
                
                
                    DAY AND NIGHT
                    
                        NIGHT, ambushed in the darkling wood,
                        Waited to seize the sleeping field,
                        His sentinels the pine trees stood
                        Till the sun fell beneath his shield.
                        Then when the day at last was dead,
                        Night, in his might, marched conquering
                        Across the land his banner spread
                        And reigned as victor and as King.
                    
                    
                        And you and I—all days apart
                        Rejoiced to see Night's victory,
                        Because he has a kindlier heart
                        Than Day wears with his sovereignty:
                        Day keeps us prisoned close, but Night
                        Lifts off Day's chains, and all night through
                        You dream of me, my life's delight,
                        And all night through I dream of you.
                    
                
                
                
                    THE SPELL
                    
                        OUR boat has drifted with the stream
                        That stirs the river's full sweet bosom
                        And now she stays where gold flags gleam
                        By meadow-sweet's pale foam of blossom.
                    
                    
                        Sedge-warblers sing the sun the song
                        The nightingale sings to the shadows;
                        Forget-me-nots grow all along
                        The fringes of the happy meadows.
                    
                    
                        See the wet lilies' golden beads!
                        The river-nymphs for necklace string them,
                        And in the sighing of the reeds
                        You hear the song their lovers sing them.
                    
                    
                        Gold sun, blue air, green shimmering leaves,
                        The weir's old song—the wood's old story—
                        Such spells the enchanting Summer weaves
                        She holds me in a web of glory.
                    
                    
                    
                        And you—with head against my arm
                        And subtle wiles that seek to hold me—
                        Not even you can add a charm
                        To the sweet sorceries that enfold me.
                    
                    
                        Yet lean there still! The hour is ours;
                        If we should move the charm might shiver
                        And joyless sun and scentless flowers
                        Might mock a disenchanted river.
                    
                
                
                    
                    SEED-TIME AND HARVEST
                    
                        MY hollyhocks are all awake,
                        And not a single rose is lost;
                        My wallflowers, for dear pity's sake,
                        Have fought the winter's cruel frost;
                        Pink peony buds begin to peer,
                        And flags push up their sword-blades fine:
                        I know there will not be this year
                        A brighter garden plot than mine.
                    
                    
                        I'll sow the seeds of mignonette,
                        Of snapdragon and sunflowers tall,
                        And scarlet poppies I will set
                        To flower against the southern wall;
                        Already all my lilies show
                        The green crowns baby lilies wear,
                        And all my flowers will grow and blow,
                        Because Love's hand has set them there.
                    
                    
                    
                        I'll plant and water, sow and weed,
                        Till not an inch of earth shows brown,
                        And take a vow of each small seed
                        To grow to greenness and renown:
                        And then some day you'll pass my way,
                        See gold and crimson, bell and star,
                        And catch my garden's soul, and say:
                        “How sweet these cottage gardens are!”
                    
                
                
                    
                    SURRENDER
                    
                        THE wild wind wails in the poplar tree,
                        I sit here alone.
                        O heart of my heart, come hither to me!
                        Come to me straight over land and sea,
                        My soul—my own!
                    
                    
                        Not now—the clock's slow tick I hear,
                        And nothing more.
                        The year is dying, the leaves are sere,
                        No ghost of the beautiful young crowned year
                        Knocks at my door.
                    
                    
                        But one of these nights, a wild, late night,
                        I, waiting within,
                        Shall hear your hand on the latch—and spite
                        Of prudence and folly and wrong and right,
                        I shall let you in.
                    
                
            
            
                
                
                ROSE
                
                
                    
                    SONG OF THE ROSE
                    
                        THE lilac-time is over,
                        Laburnum's day is past,
                        The red may-blossoms cover
                        The white ones, fallen too fast.
                        And guelder-roses hang like snow,
                        Where purple flag-flowers grow.
                    
                    
                        And still the tulip lingers,
                        The wall-flower's red like blood
                        The ivy spreads pale fingers,
                        The rose is in the bud.
                        Good-bye, sweet lilac, and sweet may!
                        The Rose is on the way.
                    
                    
                        You were but heralds sent us—
                        All April's buds, and May's—
                        But painted missals lent us
                        That we might learn her praise,
                        Might cast down every bud that blows
                        Before our Queen, the Rose!
                    
                
                
                    
                    MORNING
                    
                        DAWN in the east, and chill dew falling—
                        Tears of the new-born day;
                        Dew on the lawn, and blackbirds calling,
                        Music and mild mid-May.
                        The lilac, see, wins back the colour
                        Lost on the field of Night
                        See, the spent stars grow dimmer, duller!
                        Look forth, my life's delight!
                    
                    
                        Open your window, lean above me,
                        Rose, my white rose, my song!
                        Leave your white nest, love, if you love me—
                        Night is so lonely-long.
                        Day is our own, and day's a-breaking;
                        Sweet sleepy eyes of grey,
                        You shall not chide an early waking
                        When Night grows kind as Day!
                    
                
                
                    
                    A GARDEN OF GIRLS
                    
                        KATE is like a violet, Gertrude's like a rose,
                        Jane is like a gillyflower smart;
                        But Laura's like a lily, the purest bud that blows,
                        Whose white, white petals veil the golden heart.
                        Girls in the garden—one and two and three—
                        One for song and one for play and one—ah, one for me!
                        Gillyflowers and violets and roses fair and fine,
                        But only one a lily, and that one lily mine!
                    
                    
                        Bertha is a hollyhock, stately, tall, and fair,
                        Mabel has the daisy's dainty grace,
                        Edith has the gold of the sunflower on her hair,
                        But Laura wears the lily in her face.
                        Girls in the garden—five and six and seven—
                        Three to take, and three to give, but one—ah! one is given—
                        Hollyhocks and daisies, and sunflowers like the sun,
                        But only one a lily, and that one lily won.
                    
                
                
                    
                    MARGARET
                    
                        I KNOW a garden where white lilies grow,
                        Under the grey sweet-laden apple boughs;
                        It is a garden where the roses blow,
                        And honeysuckle covers half the house.
                        O happy garden, do you keep the vows
                        Breathed in your quiet ear beneath the rose,
                        Or do you tell the tale to each soft wind that blows?
                    
                    
                        Across your grassy paths she used to stray,
                        She moved among you like a living flower,
                        Her beauty drank your beauty every day,
                        Your beauty decked her beauty every hour.
                        You gave her rose and lily for a dower,
                        With all sweet flowers and fruits your bosom bore—
                        She took them all—and now she comes not any more.
                    
                    
                    
                        O garden, if you breathe such secret things
                        To the south wind who loves you, tell him this:
                        To spread the scented softness of his wings,
                        And seek that other garden where she is,
                        And bid him bear no blossom and no kiss;
                        Only, dear garden, tell the wind to say
                        How grey the world is grown since Margaret went away!
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE GLOW-WORM TO HER LOVE
                    
                        BENEATH cool ferns, in dewy grass,
                        Among the leaves that fringe the stream,
                        I hear the feet of lovers pass,
                        —I hide all day, and dream.
                    
                    
                        But when the night, with wide soft wings,
                        Droops on the trembling waiting wood,
                        And lulls the restless woodland things
                        Within its solitude,
                    
                    
                        Ah, then my soft green lamp I light,
                        That thou may'st find me by its fire—
                        Come, crown me, O my winged delight
                        My darling, my desire.
                    
                    
                        Yet they who praise the lamp I bear
                        Have never a word of praise for thee,
                        My love, my life, my King of Air,
                        Who lightest the lamp in me.
                    
                    
                    
                        Thine, thine should be the praise they give
                        My King, who art all praise above,
                        Since but for thee I dream and live,
                        And light the lamp of love.
                    
                
                
                
                    IN SANCTUARY
                    
                        THE young Spring air was strong like wine,
                        The sky reflected in your eyes
                        Was of a blue as deep-divine
                        As ever glowed in southern skies.
                    
                    
                        We passed from out the sunny lane
                        Into the green wood's shadowing;
                        And, sudden, all Love's words seemed vain
                        In that calm temple of the Spring.
                    
                    
                        Our god hears fair and tuneful words,
                        And splendid flowers his altars bear;
                        With choric song of leaves and birds,
                        Another god was worshipped there.
                    
                    
                        Silent, we passed the woodland, through
                        The coloured maze that Springtime weaves—
                        The light leaves dancing to the blue,
                        The sunlight dancing to the leaves;
                    
                    
                    
                        I could not speak. I touched your hand
                        At the green arch that ends the wood:
                        “Ah—if she should not understand!”
                        Ah—if you had not understood!
                    
                
                
                    
                    IN THE ROSE GARDEN
                    
                        RED roses bright, pink roses and white
                        That bud and blossom and fall;
                        The very sight of my heart's delight
                        Is more than worth them all!
                        Is worth far more than the whole sweet store
                        That ever a garden grew— 
                        She plucked the best to die at her breast,
                        But it laughed and it bloomed anew!
                    
                    
                        The red rose lay at her lips to-day,
                        And flushed with the joy thereof;
                        She said a word that the white rose heard,
                        And the white rose paled with love.
                        But the west wind blows, and my lady goes,
                        And she leaves the world forlorn;
                        And every rose that the garden grows,
                        Might just as well be a thorn!
                    
                
            
            
                
                ROSEMARY
                
                
                    
                    A SONG OF PARTINGS
                    
                        DEDICATION
                        QUEEN of my Life, who gave me for my song
                        The richest crown a poet ever wore,
                        Since I have given you songs a whole year long,
                        Stoop, of your grace, and take this one song more.
                    
                    
                        I
                        It was upon a golden first June day
                        I chanced to take the quiet meadow way
                        The flowers and grasses met across my feet—
                        Red sorrel, daisies, and pale meadow-sweet,
                        With buttercup that set the field ablaze—
                        The fields have no such flowers now-a-days—
                        The hedges all along were pearly white;
                        And there I met with Chloris, all alone,
                        I drew her face to lean against my own.
                        The branch of May that hid her maiden eyes
                        
                        Was scented like the rose of Paradise—
                        The May-bough fell: I knew what youth was worth,
                        And sunshine and the pleasant green-gowned earth,
                        When first love rhymed to summer and delight.
                        Yet, since my ship must sail away that day,
                        Despair new-born met new-born joy half-way.
                        And I, 'mid rapture and tears, found voice to say
                        “Farewell—my Love—to leave you is to die,
                        I never shall forget you, dear!—Good-bye!”
                    
                    
                        II
                        At parting from Clarinda life was gray,
                        With the cold haze of mutual weariness;
                        The treasure our souls were bartered to possess,
                        We saw as ashes in the cold new day,
                        And only longed for leave to steal away
                        And wash remembrance from our tired eyes,
                        To cleanse our lips of kisses and of lies,
                        And to forget the barren fairy gold
                        For which we had journeyed such a weary road,
                        Had borne so hard a chain, so great a load,
                        Yet none the less was the old story told;
                        The old refrain re-iterate none the less,
                        “My life's one love,” we said, with sigh for sigh,
                        “I never can forget you, dear!—Good-bye!”
                    
                    
                    
                        III
                        You were so innocent, so sure, so shy,
                        Life was a chart well-marked for you, you knew—
                        With rocks and quicksands plainly set in view,
                        And, fitly beaconed by a heavenly star,
                        The port you sought marked unmistakeably
                        Attainable, and not so very far.
                        So of your charity you chose to try
                        To take a pirate bark to haven with you.
                        Ah! child, I had learned to steer on other seas,
                        Through other shoals—by other stars than these.
                        My chart had other ports you knew not of,
                        And so, one day, my black sails took the breeze,
                        And, ere you knew it, I was leagues away:
                        Yet not so far but you could hear me cry
                        Across the waters of your sheltered bay—
                        “Farewell, my child! Farewell, my only love!
                        I never can forget you, dear!—Good-bye!”
                    
                    
                        IV
                        When I had courted Chloe half a year
                        She bade me go—she could not hold me dear,
                        We parted in the orchard, very late:
                        The dew lay on the white sweet clover flowers
                        
                        The moon shone through the pear-tree by the gate,
                        And on the grass the blossoms fell in showers.
                        “Pray Heaven,” I cried, “to bless you—none the less
                        That you have cursed my life eternally!”
                        She laughed—my pretty china shepherdess,
                        Kissed her white hand towards the white full moon.
                        “Up there,” she said, “the folk who say farewell
                        Never intone it to a funeral bell,
                        But sing it to the sweet old-fashioned tune!
                        Go there and learn!”—“I have learned that tune,” quoth I
                        “‘I never can forget you, dear!—Good-bye!’”
                    
                    
                        V
                        In that far land where myrtles dream of love,
                        Where soft winds whisper through the orange grove;
                        And, 'twixt the sapphire of the seas and skies,
                        The sunshine of perpetual summer lies,
                        I brought white flowers to lie where Clemence lay.
                        The shutters, closed, strove with the radiant day,
                        And in her villa all was still and chill.
                        Flowers die, they say, but these flowers never will,—
                        Whenever I see a rose I smell them still;
                        
                        I laid them by her on the strait white bed:
                        There were no kisses given, no tears were shed,
                        And never a whisper of farewell was said;
                        Yet, when they had laid her underneath the clay,
                        And paid their prayers and tears, and gone their way,
                        My heart stirred, and I found the old word to say—
                        This time—this one time—and this last time—true:
                        “White lady, my white flowers touch you where you lie,
                        I never shall forget you! Dear, good-bye!”
                    
                    
                        Envoy.
                        Queen of my life, and of the songs I sing,
                        Whose love sets life to such a royal tune;
                        This song of parting to your hands I bring,
                        As I bring honour and faith and everything:
                        Because I know our parting shall be soon—
                        Since violets hardly live one happy moon,
                        And love, full-fledged, is ready to take wing;
                        But, when he flies, part we the silent way,
                        And, if you ever loved me, do not say:
                        “Farewell, my only love—I love you still,
                        I never will forget you!”—For you will!
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE GHOST
                    
                        NOW that the curtains are drawn close
                        Now that the fire burns low,
                        And on her narrow bed the rose
                        Is stark laid out in snow;
                        Now that the wind of winter blows
                        Bid my heart say if still it knows
                        The step it used to know.
                    
                    
                        I hear the silken gown you wear
                        Sweep on the gallery floor,
                        Your step comes up the wide, dark stair
                        And pauses at my door.
                        My heart with the old hope flowers fair—
                        That shrivels to the old despair,
                        For you come in no more!
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE WAY OF THE WOOD
                    
                        WHERE baby oaks play in the breeze
                        Among wood-sorrel and fringed fern,
                        Through the green garments of the trees
                        The quivering shafts of sunlight burn,
                    
                    
                        And all along the wet green ride
                        The dripping hazel-boughs between,
                        The spotted orchis, stiff with pride,
                        Stands guard before the eglantine.
                    
                    
                        Sweet chestnuts droop their long, sharp leaves
                        By knotted tree roots, mossed and brown,
                        Round which the honeysuckle weaves
                        Its scented golden wild-wood crown.
                    
                    
                        O wood, last year you saw us meet,
                        For her your leaves and buds were gay,
                        Your moss spread velvet for her feet.
                        Your flowers upon her bosom lay.
                    
                    
                        This year you wear your raiment bright,
                        As fair as ever yet you wore.
                        And, none the less, the world's delight
                        Walks in your ways no more, no more.
                    
                
                
                    
                    QUIETA NE MOVETE
                    
                        DEAR, if I told you, made your sorrow certain,
                        Showed you the ghosts that o'er my pillow lean,
                        What joy were mine—to cast aside the curtain
                        And clasp you close with no base lies between!
                    
                    
                        You have given all, and still would find to give me
                        More love, more tenderness than ever yet:
                        You would forgive me—ah, you would forgive me,
                        But all your life you never would forget.
                    
                    
                        And I, thank God, can still in your embraces
                        Forget the past, with all its strife and stain,
                        —But if you, too, beheld the evil faces,
                        I should forget them never, never again!
                    
                
                
                    
                    ENVOYS
                    
                        BROWN leaves forget the green of May,
                        The earth forgets the kiss of Spring;
                        And down our happy woodland way
                        Gray mists go wandering.
                    
                    
                        You have forgotten too, they say;
                        Yet, does no stealthy memory creep
                        Among the mist wreaths, ghostly gray,
                        Where spell-bound violets sleep?
                    
                    
                        Ah, send your thought sometimes to stray
                        By paths that knew our lingering feet.
                        My thought walks there this many a day,
                        And they, at least, may meet.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE GARDEN
                    
                        CHOKED with ill weeds my garden lay a-dying,
                        Hard was the ground, no bud had heart to blow,
                        Yet shone your smile there, with your soft breath sighing:
                        “Have patience, for some day the flowers will grow.”
                    
                    
                        Some weeds you killed, you made a plot and tilled it;
                        “My plot,” you said, “rich harvest yet shall give,”
                        With sun-warmed seeds of hope your dear hands filled it,
                        With rain-soft tears of pity bade them live.
                    
                    
                        So, weak among the weeds that had withstood you,
                        One little pure white flower grew by-and-by;
                        You could not pluck my flower—alas! how should you?
                        You sowed the seed, but let the blossom die.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THROUGH THE WOOD
                    
                        THROUGH the wood, the green wood, the wet wood, the
                            light wood,
                        Love and I went maying a thousand lives ago;
                        Shafts of golden sunlight had made a golden bright wood
                        In my heart reflected, because I loved you so.
                    
                    
                        Through the wood, the chill wood, the brown wood, the bare wood,
                        I alone went lonely no later than last year,
                        What had thinned the branches, and wrecked my dear and fair wood,
                        Killed the pale wild roses and left the rose-thorns sere?
                    
                    
                        Through the wood, the dead wood, the sad wood, the lone wood,
                        Winds of winter shiver through lichens old and grey,
                        You ride past forgetting the wood that was our own wood
                        All our own—and withered as ever a flower of May.
                    
                
                
                    
                    A KENTISH GARDEN
                    
                        THERE is a grey-walled garden, far away
                        From noise and smoke of cities, where the hours
                        Pass with soft wings among the happy flowers,
                        And lovely leisure blossoms every day.
                    
                    
                        There, tall and white, the sceptral lily blows;
                        There grow the pansy, pink, and columbine,
                        Brave hollyhocks, and star-white jessamine,
                        And the red glory of the royal rose.
                    
                    
                        There greeny glow-worms gem the dusky lawn,
                        The lime-trees breathe their fragrance to the night,
                        Pink roses sleep, and dream that they are white,
                        Until they wake to colour with the dawn.
                    
                    
                        There, in the splendour of the sultry noon,
                        The sunshine sleeps upon the garden bed
                        Where the white poppy droops a drowsy head
                        And dreams of kisses from the white full moon.
                    
                    
                    
                        And there, some days, all wild with wind and rain,
                        The tossed trees show the white side of their leaves,
                        While the great drops drip from the ivied eaves,
                        And birds are still—till the sun shines again.
                    
                    
                        And there, all days, my heart goes wandering,
                        Because there, first, my heart began to know
                        The glories of the summer and the snow,
                        The loveliness of harvest and of spring.
                    
                    
                        There may be fairer gardens; but I know
                        There is no other garden half so dear;
                        Because 'tis there, this many, many a year,
                        The sacred, sweet, white flowers of memory grow!
                    
                
            
            
                
                
                MYRRH
                
                
                    
                    THE PAST
                    
                        MAKE strong your door with bolt and bar,
                        Make every window fast;
                        Strong brass and iron as they are,
                        They are so easy passed—
                        So easy broken and cast aside,
                        And by the open door
                        My footsteps come to your guarded home,
                        And pass away no more.
                    
                    
                        In the golden noon—by the lovers' moon,
                        My shadow bars your way,
                        My shroud shows white in the blackest night
                        And grey in the gladdest day.
                        And by your board and by your bed
                        There is a place for me,
                        And in the glow when the coals burn low,
                        My face is the face ye see
                    
                    
                    
                        I come between when ye laugh and lean,
                        I burn in the tears ye weep:
                        I am there when ye wake in the gray day-break
                        From the gold of a lovers' sleep.
                        I wither the rose and I spoil the song,
                        And Death is not strong to save—
                        For I shall creep while your mourners weep,
                        And wait for you in your grave.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE BETTER PART
                    
                        THERE'S a grey old church on a wind-swept hill
                        Where three bent yew trees cower,
                        The gipsy roses grow there still,
                        And the thyme and Saint John's gold flower,
                        The pale blue violets that love the chalk
                        Cling light round the lichened stone,
                        And starlings chatter and grey owls talk
                        In the belfry o' nights alone.
                    
                    
                        It's a thousand leagues and a thousand years
                        From the brick-built, gas-lit town
                        To the little church where the wild thyme hears
                        The bees and the breeze of the down.
                        The town is crowded and hard and rough;
                        Let those fight in its press who will—
                        But the little churchyard is quiet enough,
                        And there's room in the churchyard still.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE GRAY FOLK
                    
                        THE house, with blind unhappy face,
                        Stands lonely in the last year's corn,
                        And in the grayness of the morn
                        The gray folk come about the place.
                    
                    
                        By many pathways, gliding gray
                        They come past meadow, wood, and wold,
                        Come by the farm and by the fold
                        From the green fields of yesterday.
                    
                    
                        Past lock and chain and bolt and bar
                        They press, to stand about my bed,
                        And like the faces of the dead
                        I know their hidden faces are.
                    
                    
                        They will not leave me in the day
                        And when night falls they will not go,
                        Because I silenced, long ago,
                        The only voice that they obey.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE TREASURE
                    
                        UNDER our lead we lie
                        While the sun and the snow go by,
                        And our shrouds lie close, lie close,
                        Like the leaves of a shut white rose
                        That knows not what summer knows
                        Before it is time to die.
                    
                    
                        You, in the sun, up there
                        Where the wild thyme scents the air;
                        Is it warm still—and sweet and gay
                        Up there in the wide blue day?
                        Do you pity us, shut away
                        From the fields where the flowers are fair?
                    
                    
                        Pity us here? shut in
                        In the dark, where the flowers begin?
                        The coins lie light on our eyes,
                        In our empty hands is the prize,
                        The treasure that fools and wise
                        Are breaking their hearts to win!
                    
                
                
                    
                    NEW YEAR SNOW
                    
                        THE white snow falls on hill and dale,
                        The snow falls white by square and street,
                        Falls on the town, a bridal veil,
                        And on the fields a winding-sheet.
                    
                    
                        A winding-sheet for last year's flowers,
                        For last year's love, and last year's tear,
                        A bridal veil for the New Hours,
                        For the New Love and the New Year.
                    
                    
                        Soft snow, spread out his winding-sheet!
                        Spin fine her veil, O bridal snow!
                        Cover the print of her dancing feet,
                        And the place where he lies low.
                    
                
                
                    
                    LOVE'S GUERDONS
                    
                        DEAREST, if I almost cease to weep for you,
                        Do not doubt I love you just the same;
                        'Tis because my life has grown to keep for you
                        All the hours that sorrow does not claim.
                    
                    
                        All the hours when I may steal away to you,
                        Where you lie alone through the long day,
                        Lean my face against your turf and say to you
                        All that there is no one else to say.
                    
                    
                        Do they let you listen—do you lean to me?
                        Know now what in life you never knew,
                        When I whisper all that you have been to me,
                        All that I might never be to you?
                    
                    
                        Dear, lie still. No tears but mine are shed for you,
                        No one else leaves kisses day by day,
                        No one's heart but mine has beat and bled for you,
                        No one else's flowers push mine away.
                        
                        No one else remembers—do not call to her,
                        Not alone she treads the churchyard grass;
                        You are nothing now who once were all to her,
                        Do not call her—let the strangers pass!
                    
                
            
            
                
                MUSK
                
                
                    
                    INDISCRETION
                    
                        RED tulip-buds last night caressed
                        The sacred ivory of her breast.
                        She met me, eager to divine
                        What gold-heart bud of hope was mine.
                    
                    
                        Nor eyes nor lips were strong to part
                        The close-curled petals round my heart;
                        The joy I knew no monarch knows,
                        Yet not a petal would unclose.
                    
                    
                        But, ah!—the tulip-buds, unwise,
                        Warmed with the sunshine of her eyes,
                        And by her soft breath glorified
                        Went mad with love and opened wide.
                    
                    
                        She saw their hearts, all golden-gay,
                        Laughed, frowned, and flung the flowers away.
                        Poor flowers, in Heaven as you were,
                        Why did you show your hearts to her?
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE INVITATION
                    
                        DELIA, my dear, delightful Lady,
                        Time flies in town, you say,
                        New gowns shine fresh as May,
                        The Park is glad and gay,
                        Ah—but the woods are green and shady—
                        Come, Delia, come away!
                    
                    
                        The crown your kneeling slaves award you
                        Is beauty's royal right;
                        Your beauty, Delia, might
                        Win crowns more sweet, more bright:
                        Your niggard world will not afford you
                        The crown of Heart's delight.
                    
                    
                        Sable your court will wear—to lose you;
                        My garden's dressed in green,
                        Such buds its leaves between
                        As never yet were seen;
                        There is no flower it can refuse you—
                        Come to your King, my Queen!
                    
                
                
                    
                    TO ONE WHO BADE HIM WORK
                    
                        EACH day Work bids my heart anew,
                        Fold wings and watch my brain at play;
                        But brain and heart will fly your way,
                        And find their natural home in you!
                        Come to me—'tis the only way!
                    
                    
                        For heart and brain have had to learn
                        Such carrier-pigeon feats of flight,
                        That were you here, my heart's delight,
                        My brain and heart to Work would turn,
                        Spread wings, and flutter from your sight.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE CLAIM
                    
                        OH! I admit I'm dull and poor,
                        And plain and gloomy, as you tell me;
                        And dozens flock around your door
                        Who in all points but one excel me.
                    
                    
                        You smile on them, on me you frown,
                        They worship for the wage you pay;
                        I lay life, love, and honour down
                        For you to walk on every day.
                    
                    
                        I am the only one who sees
                        That though such gifts can never move you,
                        A meagre price are gifts like these
                        For life's high privilege—to love you.
                    
                    
                        I am the one among your train
                        Who sees that loving you is worth
                        A thousand times the certain gain
                        Of all the heaped-up joys of earth.
                        
                        And you, who know as well as I,
                        What your glass tells you every morning—
                        A kindred soul you should descry,
                        Dilute with sympathy your scorning.
                    
                    
                        At least you should approve the intense
                        Love that gives all for you to waste;
                        Your other lovers have more sense,
                        Admit that I have better taste.
                    
                
                
                    
                    TO HIS LADY
                    (Who asked a Song in Spring)
                    
                        WHY do you bid your poet sing,
                        Who has no mind to song—
                        Who only wants to see the Spring,
                        Long sought and tarrying long?
                        The shivering, dreary winter through
                        My song enshrined my vow;
                        If then my songs were sweet to you,
                        Let me be silent now!
                    
                    
                        Have I not duly sung, my dear,
                        Your goodness and your grace?
                        Now that your rival, Spring, is here,
                        O let me see her face!
                        The hedge is white with buds of May,
                        The fields are green with Spring,
                        Oh, give your bard a holiday:
                        He does not want to sing!
                    
                    
                    
                        He wants to listen; all alone,
                        He wants to steal away
                        To hear the ring-doves' tender tone,
                        And what the thrushes say.
                        He wants to hear what can't be heard
                        When you and love are near—
                        The sweet Spring's soft and secret word;
                        Oh, let him go, my dear!
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE CHARM
                    
                        LIKE crimson lamps the tulips swing,
                        The lily flowers their incense bring,
                        The daisies votive garlands fling
                        Before the altar of the Spring.
                    
                    
                        And you and I in this green May,
                        When thrushes sing, and white lambs play,
                        Go glad at heart—so glad and gay,
                        No word seems good enough to say.
                    
                    
                        Yet there's a charm, it would appear,
                        Which, if I spoke it in your ear,
                        Would fix the spring for ever here;
                        Pass on—I will not speak it, dear.
                    
                
                
                    
                    DEFERRED
                    
                        NOT now, when skies are gold and blue
                        And you have me and I have you,
                        When there are roses all the way,
                        And April days and nights of May,
                        And life is joy the whole day long—
                        Not now can passion flower in song.
                    
                    
                        But in the dark days by-and-by,
                        When, deep divided, you and I,
                        Shivering among the rose-thorns bare,
                        At last confess what fools we were;
                        Then, neatly wired, a nosegay fine
                        Shall deck your heart—O heart of mine!
                    
                
                
                    
                    SPRING SONG
                    
                        ALL winter through I sat alone,
                        Doors barred and windows shuttered fast,
                        And listened to the wind's faint moan,
                        And ghostly mutterings of the past;
                        And in the pauses of the rain,
                        'Mid whispers of dead sorrow and sin,
                        Love tapped upon the window pane:
                        I had no heart to let him in.
                    
                    
                        But now, with spring, my doors stand wide;
                        My windows let delight creep through;
                        I hear the skylark sing outside;
                        I see the crocus, golden new.
                        The pigeons on my window-sill,
                        Winging and wooing, flirt and flout,—
                        Now Love must enter if he will,
                        I have no heart to keep him out.
                    
                
            
            
                
                BERGAMOT
                
                
                    
                    VILLEGGIATURE
                    
                        MY window, framed in pear-tree bloom,
                        White-curtained shone, and softly lighted:
                        So, by the pear-tree, to my room
                        Your ghost last night climbed uninvited.
                    
                    
                        Your solid self, long leagues away,
                        Deep in dull books, had hardly missed me;
                        And yet you found this Romeo's way,
                        And through the blossom climbed and kissed me.
                    
                    
                        I watched the still and dewy lawn,
                        The pear-tree boughs hung white above you;
                        I listened to you till the dawn,
                        And half forgot I did not love you.
                    
                    
                        Oh, dear! what pretty things you said,
                        What pearls of song you threaded for me!
                        I did not—till your ghost had fled—
                        Remember how you always bore me!
                    
                
                
                    
                    TOWN AND COUNTRY
                    
                        THE Sun tells to Trafalgar Square
                        His old and radiant story,
                        And touches in the young spring air
                        The pepper-pots to glory.
                    
                    
                        Spring's robe down Piccadilly floats,
                        The parks glow with her treasure,
                        And button-holes of morning coats
                        Rhyme with her royal pleasure.
                    
                    
                        Now persons beautifully dressed
                        In Bond-street shop and saunter,
                        And town—by Spring's soft breath caressed—
                        Would as its mistress vaunt her.
                    
                    
                        But far away from square and street,
                        Where willows shine and shiver,
                        The splendour of her silver feet
                        Is on the wood and river.
                    
                    
                        She laughs among the tree-roots brown,
                        Among the dewy clover,
                        For Spring coquets but with the town;
                        The country is her lover.
                    
                
                
                    
                    REJECTED
                    
                        WE wandered down the meadow way—
                        The path beside the hedge is shady,—
                        You did not see the silver may,
                        You talked of Art, my sweet blind Lady.
                    
                    
                        You talked of values and of tone,
                        Of square touch and New English crazes;
                        Could you not see we were alone,
                        Where God's hand paints the world with daisies?
                    
                    
                        You spoke of Paris and of Rome
                        And in the hedgerow's thorny shadows
                        A white-throat sang a song of home,
                        Of English lanes and English meadows.
                    
                    
                        You talked about the aims of Art
                        And how all Art must needs be moral;
                        I heard you with a sinking heart
                        And watched the waving crimson sorrel.
                    
                    
                        For when I found you had not heard
                        The song—nor seen the dewy clover,
                        I cared no more to find the word
                        Should make you hear and see a lover!
                    
                
                
                    
                    COMPENSATION
                    
                        LADY, I see you every day—
                        More than your other lovers do;
                        I sit beside you at the Play,
                        And in the Park I ride with you.
                    
                    
                        Through picture shows with you I roam
                        With you I shop and dance and dine;
                        I know the hours when you're “at home”
                        To no one else's knock but mine.
                    
                    
                        And yet so near and yet so far,
                        I scarce dare look at you, for fear
                        I should remark, “How sweet you are,
                        How charming, and how very dear!”
                    
                    
                        I dare not touch that hand of yours,
                        Or lend my voice a tender tone;
                        I know my state of grace endures
                        By fasting and by prayer alone.
                    
                    
                        But, in my lonely dreamlit nights,
                        I kiss your hands, your lips, your eyes;
                        For absence grants me all the rights
                        Your presence evermore denies.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE LAST DITCH
                    
                        LOVE, through your varied views on Art
                        Untiring have I followed you,
                        Content to know I had your heart
                        And was your Art-ideal, too.
                    
                    
                        As, dear, I was when first we met.
                        ('Twas at the time you worshipped Leighton,
                        And were attempting to forget
                        Your Foster and your Noel Paton.)
                    
                    
                        “Love rhymes with Art,” said your dear voice,
                        And, at my crude, uncultured age,
                        I could but blushingly rejoice
                        That you had passed the Rubens stage.
                    
                    
                        When Madox Brown and Morris swayed
                        Your taste, did I not dress and look
                        Like any Middle Ages maid
                        In an illuminated book?
                    
                    
                        I wore strange garments, without shame,
                        Of formless form and toneless tones,
                        I might have stepped out of the frame
                        Of a Rossetti or Burne-Jones.
                    
                    
                    
                        I stole soft frills from Marcus Stone,
                        My waist wore Herkomer's disguise,
                        My slender purse was strained, I own,
                        But—my silk lay as Sargent's lies.
                    
                    
                        And when you were abroad—in Prague—
                        'Mid Cherets I had shone, a star;
                        Then for your sake I grew as vague
                        As Mr. Whistler's ladies are.
                    
                    
                        But now at last you sue in vain,
                        For here a life's submission ends:
                        Not even for you will I grow plain
                        As Aubrey Beardsley's “lady friends.”
                    
                    
                        Here I renounce your hand—unless
                        You find your Art-ideal elsewhere;
                        I will not wear the kind of dress
                        That Laurence Housman's people wear!
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE CHOICE
                    
                        PLAGUE take the dull and dusty town,
                        Its paved and sordid mazes,
                        Now Spring has trimmed her pretty gown
                        With buttercups and daisies!
                    
                    
                        With half my heart I long to lie
                        Among the flowered grasses,
                        And hear the loving leaves that sigh
                        As their sweet Mistress passes.
                    
                    
                        Through picture-shows I make my way
                        While flower-crowned maids go maying,
                        And all the cultured things I say
                        That cultured folk are saying.
                    
                    
                        For I renounce Spring's darling face,
                        With may-bloom fresh upon it:
                        My Mistress lives in Grosvenor-place
                        And wears a Bond-street bonnet!
                    
                
                
                    
                    A COMEDY
                    
                        MADAM, you bade me act a part,
                        A comedy of your devising—
                        Forbade me to consult my heart,
                        To be sincere—or compromising.
                    
                    
                        The play was not my own device,
                        My stage-struck youth lies far behind me;
                        And yet—I thought it would be nice
                        To play the part that you assigned me.
                    
                    
                        Thus have I learned my rôle so well
                        That, as I play, you question whether
                        Fate has not taught your jest a spell
                        To bind me to you altogether.
                    
                    
                        The truth is this: so ill I wrought
                        In mastering the part you gave me,
                        That now 'tis tyrant of my thought,
                        And nothing in the world can save me!
                    
                    
                        Between me and my work, your face,
                        In haunting fashion, daily lingers;
                        Your eyes make mine their dwelling place
                        Your dream-hand thrills my idle fingers.
                    
                    
                    
                        Through death-white nights I dream of you—
                        Of what might move, and what has moved you—
                        Ah! no! There's nothing you can do!...
                        ...It's not as though I really loved you.
                    
                
                
                    
                    THE END
                    
                        ADIEU, Madame! The moon of May
                        Wanes now above the orchard grey;
                        The white May-blossoms fall like snow,
                        As Love foretold a month ago—
                        Or was it only yesterday?
                    
                    
                        All pleasant things must pass away;
                        You would not, surely, have me stay?
                        I own I shun the inference! No!
                        Adieu, Madame!
                    
                    
                        Come, dry your eyes, for not this way
                        Should end your pretty pastoral play.
                        You have no heart—you told me so—
                        And I adore you, as you know;
                        Smile, while I break my heart and say
                        Adieu, Madame!
                    
                
            
            TURNBULL AND SPEARS, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.
        
        
                
            
                Publisher's Catalogue
                
                1895.
                List of Books IN BELLES LETTRES
                (Including some Transfers)
                Published by John Lane The Bodley Head VIGO STREET, LONDON, W.
                
                    N.B.—The Authors and Publisher reserve the right of reprinting any book in
                        this list if a new edition is called for, except in cases where a
                        stipulation has been made to the contrary, and of printing a separate
                        edition of any of the books for America irrespective of the numbers to which
                        the English editions are limited. The numbers mentioned do not include
                        copies sent to the public libraries, nor those sent for review.
                
                
                    ADAMS (FRANCIS). ESSAYS IN MODERNITY. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. [Shortly.
                        Chicago: Stone & Kimball. A CHILD OF THE AGE. (See KEYNOTES
                        SERIES.)
                    ALLEN (GRANT). 
                            THE LOWER SLOPES: A Volume of Verse. With Title-page and Cover
                                Design by J. ILLINGWORTH KAY. 600 copies. Crown 8vo. 5s. net.
                                Chicago: Stone & Kimball.
                            THE WOMAN WHO DID. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                            THE BRITISH BARBARIANS. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                        
                    BAILEY (JOHN C). AN ANTHOLOGY OF ENGLISH ELEGIES. [In preparation.
                    
                    BEARDSLEY (AUBREY). THE STORY OF VENUS AND TANNHÄUSER, in which is set
                        forth an exact account of the Manner of State held by Madam Venus, Goddess
                        and Meretrix, under the famous Hörselberg, and containing the adventures of
                        Tannhäuser in that place, his repentance, his journeying to Rome, and return
                        to the loving mountain. By AUBREY BEARDSLEY. With 20 full-page
                        Illustrations, numerous ornaments, and a cover from the same hand. Sq. 16mo.
                        10s. 6d. net. [In preparation.
                    BEDDOES (T.L.) See GOSSE (EDMUND}.
                    BEECHING (REV. H.C.) IN A GARDEN: Poems. With Title-page designed by ROGER
                        FRY. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. New York: Macmillan & Co.
                    BENSON (ARTHUR CHRISTOPHER). LYRICS. Fcap. 8vo., buckram. 5s. net. New
                        York: Macmillan & Co.
                    BRIDGES (ROBERT). SUPPRESSED CHAPTERS AND OTHER BOOKISHNESS. Crown 8vo.
                        3s. 6d. net. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons.
                    BROTHERTON (MARY). ROSEMARY FOR REMEMBRANCE. With Title-page and Cover
                        Design by WALTER WEST. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. net.
                    BUCHAN (JOHN). MUSA PISCATRIX. [In preparation.
                    CAMPBELL (GERALD). THE JONESES AND THE ASTERISKS. (See MAYFAIR
                        SET.)
                    CASE (ROBERT). AN ANTHOLOGY OF ENGLISH EPITHALAMIES. [In
                        preparation.
                    CASTLE (MRS EGERTON) MY LITTLE LADY ANNE. (See PIERROT'S LIBRARY.)
                    CASTLE (EGERTON). See STEVENSON (ROBERT LOUIS).
                    CRAIG (R. MANIFOLD). THE SACRIFICE OF FOOLS: A Novel. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.
                        net. [In preparation.
                    
                    CRANE (WALTER). TOY BOOKS. Re-issue. Each with new Cover Design and end
                        papers. 9d. net. The group of three bound in one volume, with a decorative
                        cloth cover, end papers, and a newly written and designed preface. 3s. 6d.
                        net. 
                            I. THIS LITTLE PIG.
                            II. THE FAIRY SHIP.
                            III. KING LUCKIEBOY'S PARTY.
                         Chicago: Stone & Kimball.
                    CROSSE (VICTORIA). THE WOMAN WHO DIDN'T. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    DALMON (C.W.). SONG FAVOURS. With a Title-page designed by J. P. DONNE.
                        Sq. 16mo. 3s. 6d. net. Chicago: Way & Williams.
                    D'ARCY (ELLA). MONOCHROMES. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    DAVIDSON (JOHN). 
                            PLAYS: An Unhistorical Pastoral; A Romantic Farce; Bruce, a
                                Chronicle Play; Smith, a Tragic Farce; Scaramouch in Naxos, a
                                Pantomime, with a Frontispiece and Cover Design by AUBREY BEARDSLEY.
                                Printed at the Ballantyne Press. 500 copies. Small 4to. 7s. 6d. net.
                                Chicago: Stone & Kimball.
                            FLEET STREET ECLOGUES. Fcap. 8vo, buckram. 5s. net. [Out of Print
                                at present.
                            A RANDOM ITINERARY AND A BALLAD. With a Frontispiece and
                                Title-page by LAURENCE HOUSMAN. 600 copies. Fcap. 8vo, Irish Linen.
                                5s. net. Boston: Copeland & Day.
                            BALLADS AND SONGS. With a Title-page and Cover Design by WALTER
                                WEST. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, buckram. 5s. net. Boston: Copeland
                                & Day.
                        
                    DAWE (W. CARLTON). YELLOW AND WHITE. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    
                    DE TABLEY (LORD). 
                            POEMS, DRAMATIC AND LYRICAL. By JOHN LEICESTER WARREN {Lord De
                                Tabley). Illustrations and Cover Design by C.S. RICKETTS. Second
                                Edition. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. net. New York: Macmillan &
                                Co.
                            POEMS, DRAMATIC AND LYRICAL. Second Series, uniform in binding
                                with the former volume. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. New York: Macmillan
                                & Co.
                        
                    DIX (GERTRUDE). THE GIRL FROM THE FARM. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    DOSTOIEVSKY (F.). See KEYNOTES SERIES, Vol. III.
                    ECHEGARAY (JOSÉ). See LYNCH (HANNAH).
                    EGERTON (GEORGE). 
                            KEYNOTES. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                            DISCORDS. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                            YOUNG OFEG'S DITTIES. A translation from the Swedish of OLA
                                HANSSON. With Title-page and Cover Design by AUBREY BEARDSLEY. Crown
                                8vo. 3s. 6d. net. Boston: Roberts Bros.
                        
                    FARR (FLORENCE). THE DANCING FAUN. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    FLEMING (GEORGE). FOR PLAIN WOMEN ONLY. (See MAYFAIR SET.)
                    FLETCHER (J.S.). THE WONDERFUL WAPENTAKE. By ‘A SON OF THE SOIL.’ With 18
                        full-page Illustrations by J.A. SYMINGTON. Crown 8vo. 5s. 6d. net. Chicago:
                        A. C. McClurg & Co.
                    FREDERIC (HAROLD). MRS ALBERT GRUNDY. (See MAYFAIR SET.)
                    GALE (NORMAN). ORCHARD SONGS. With Title-page and Cover Design by J.
                        ILLINGWORTH KAY. Fcap 8vo, Irish Linen. 5s. net. Also a Special Edition
                        limited in number on hand-made paper bound in English vellum. £1, 1s. net.
                        New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.
                    
                    GARNETT (RICHARD). 
                            POEMS. With Title-page by J. ILLINGWORTH KAY. 350 copies. Crown
                                8vo. 5s. net. Boston: Copeland & Day.
                            DANTE, PETRARCH, CAMOENS, cxxiv Sonnets rendered in English. Crown
                                8vo. 5s. net. [In preparation.
                        
                    GEARY (NEVILL). A LAWYER'S WIFE: A Novel. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. net. [In
                        preparation.
                    GOSSE (EDMUND). THE LETTERS OF THOMAS LOVELL BEDDOES. Now first edited.
                        Pott 8vo. 5s. net. Also 25 copies large paper. 12s. 6d. net. New York:
                        Macmillan & Co.
                    GRAHAME (KENNETH). PAGAN PAPERS: A Volume of Essays. With Title-page by
                        AUBREY BEARDSLEY. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. net. Chicago: Stone &
                        Kimball.
                    GREENE (G.A.). ITALIAN LYRISTS OF TO-DAY. Translations in the original
                        metres from about thirty-five living Italian poets, with bibliographical and
                        biographical notes. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. New York: Macmillan &
                        Co.
                    GREENWOOD (FREDERICK). IMAGINATION IN DREAMS. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. New
                        York: Macmillan & Co.
                    HAKE (T. GORDON). A SELECTION FROM HIS POEMS. Edited by Mrs MEYNELL. With
                        a Portrait after D. G. ROSSETTI, and a Cover Design by GLEESON WHITE. Crown
                        8vo. 5s. net. Chicago: Stone and Kimball.
                    HANSSON (LAURA MARHOLM). MODERN WOMEN: Six Psychological Sketches. [Sophia
                        Kovalevsky, George Egerton, Eleanora Duse, Amalie Skram, Marie Bashkirtseff,
                        A. Edgren Leffler.] Translated from the German by HERMIONE RAMSDEN. Crown
                        8vo. 3s. 6d. net. [In preparation.
                    
                    HANSSON (OLA). See EGERTON.
                    HARLAND (HENRY). GREY ROSES. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    HAYES (ALFRED). THE VALE OF ARDEN AND OTHER POEMS. With a Title-page and a
                        Cover designed by E. H. NEW. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. net. Also 25 copies large
                        paper. 15s. net.
                    HEINEMANN WILLIAM). THE FIRST STEP. A Dramatic Moment. Small 4to. 3s. 6d.
                        net.
                    HOPPER (NORA). 
                            BALLADS IN PROSE. With a Title-page and Cover by WALTER WEST. Sq.
                                16mo. 5s. net. Boston: Roberts Bros.
                            A VOLUME OF POEMS. With Title-page designed by PATTEN WILSON. Sq.
                                16mo. 5s. net. [In preparation.
                        
                    HOUSMAN (CLEMENCE). THE WERE WOLF. With six Full-page Illustrations,
                        Title-page and Cover Design, by LAURENCE HOUSMAN. Sq. 16mo. 4s. net. [In
                        preparation.
                    HOUSMAN (LAURENCE). GREEN ARRAS: Poems. With Illustrations by the Author.
                        Crown 8vo. 5s. net. [In preparation.
                    IRVING (LAURENCE). GODEFROI AND YOLANDE: A Play. With three Illustrations
                        by AUBREY BEARDSLEY. Sm. 4to. 5s. net. [In preparation.
                    JAMES (W.P.) ROMANTIC PROFESSIONS: A Volume of Essays. With Title-page
                        designed by J. ILLINGWORTH KAY. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. New York: Macmillan
                        & Co.
                    JOHNSON (LIONEL). THE ART OF THOMAS HARDY: Six Essays. With Etched
                        Portrait by WM. STRANG, and Bibliography by JOHN LANE. Second Edition. Crown
                        8vo. 5s. 6d. net. Also 150 copies, large paper, with proofs of the portrait.
                        £1, 1s. net. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
                    
                    JOHNSON (PAULINE). WHITE WAMPUM: Poems. With a Title-page and Cover Design
                        by E. H. NEW. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. Boston: Lamson, Wolffe &
                        Co.
                    JOHNSTONE (C.E.). BALLADS OF BOY AND BEAK. With a Title-page designed by
                        F. H. TOWNSEND. Sq. 32mo. 2s. 6d. net. [In preparation.
                    KEYNOTES SERIES. Each volume with specially designed Title-page by AUBREY
                        BEARDSLEY. Crown 8vo, cloth. 3s. 6d. net. 
                            Vol. I. KEYNOTES. By GEORGE EGERTON. [Seventh edition now
                                ready.
                            Vol. II. THE DANCING FAUN. By FLORENCE FARR.
                            Vol. III. POOR FOLK. Translated from the Russian of F. Dostoievsky
                                by LENA MILMAN. With a Preface by GEORGE MOORE.
                            Vol. IV. A CHILD OF THE AGE. By FRANCIS ADAMS.
                            Vol. V. THE GREAT GOD PAN AND THE INMOST LIGHT. By ARTHUR MACHEN.
                                [Second edition now ready.
                            Vol. VI. DISCORDS. By GEORGE EGERTON. [Fourth edition now
                                ready.
                            Vol. VII. PRINCE ZALESKI. By M. P. SHIEL.
                            Vol. VIII. THE WOMAN WHO DID. By GRANT ALLEN. [Eighteenth edition
                                now ready.
                            Vol. IX. WOMEN'S TRAGEDIES. By H.D. LOWRY.
                            Vol. X. GREY ROSES. By HENRY HARLAND.
                            Vol. XI. AT THE FIRST CORNER AND OTHER STORIES. By H.B. MARRIOTT
                                WATSON.
                            Vol. XII. MONOCHROMES. By ELLA D'ARCY.
                            Vol. XIII. AT THE RELTON ARMS. By EVELYN SHARP.
                            Vol. XIV. THE GIRL FROM THE FARM. By GERTRUDE DIX.
                            Vol. XV. THE MIRROR OF MUSIC. By STANLEY V. MAKOWER.
                            Vol. XVI. YELLOW AND WHITE. By W. CARLTON DAWE.
                            Vol. XVII. THE MOUNTAIN LOVERS. By FIONA MACLEOD.
                            Vol. XVIII. THE WOMAN WHO DIDN'T. By VICTORIA CROSSE. [Second
                                edition now ready.
                        
                    
                    KEYNOTES SERIES—continued. The following are in rapid preparation. 
                            Vol.XIX. THE THREE IMPOSTORS. By ARTHUR MACHEN.
                            Vol. XX. NOBODY'S FAULT. By NETTA SYRETT.
                            Vol. XXI. THE BRITISH BARBARIANS. By GRANT ALLEN.
                            Vol. XXII. IN HOMESPUN. By E. NESBIT.
                            Vol. XXIII. PLATONIC AFFECTIONS. By JOHN SMITH.
                            Vol. XXIV. NETS FOR THE WIND. By UNA TAYLOR.
                            Vol. XXV. ORANGE AND GREEN. By CALDWELL LIPSETT.
                         Boston: Roberts Bros.
                    KING (MAUDE EGERTON). ROUND ABOUT A BRIGHTON COACH OFFICE. With 30
                        Illustrations by LUCY KEMP WELCH. Cr. 8vo. 5s. net. [In preparation.
                    LANDER (HARRY). WEIGHED IN THE BALANCE: A Novel. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. net.
                        [In preparation.
                    LANG (ANDREW). See STODDART.
                    LEATHER (R.K.). VERSES. 250 copies. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. net. Transferred by the
                        Author to the present Publisher.
                    LE GALLIENNE (RICHARD). 
                            PROSE FANCIES. With Portrait of the Author by WILSON STEER. Fourth
                                Edition. Crown 8vo. Purple cloth. 5s. net. Also a limited large
                                paper edition. 12s. 6d. net. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.
                            THE BOOK BILLS OF NARCISSUS, An Account rendered by RICHARD LE
                                GALLIENNE. Third Edition. With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Purple
                                cloth. 3s. 6d. net. Also 50 copies on large paper. 8vo. 10s. 6d.
                                net. New York: G.P. Putman's Sons.
                            ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON, AN ELEGY, AND OTHER POEMS, MAINLY
                                PERSONAL. With Etched Title-page by D.Y. CAMERON. Cr. 8vo. Purple
                                cloth. 4s. 6d. net. Also 75 copies on large paper. 8vo. 12s. 6d.
                                net. Boston: Copeland & Day.
                            ENGLISH POEMS. Fourth Edition, revised. Crown 8vo. Purple cloth.
                                4s. 6d. net. Boston: Copeland & Day.
                        
                    
                    LE GALLIENNE (RICHARD). 
                            RETROSPECTIVE REVIEWS, A LITERARY LOG, 1891-1895. 2 vols. crown
                                8vo. Purple cloth. 9s. net. [In preparation. New York: Dodd, Mead
                                & Co.
                            GEORGE MEREDITH: Some Characteristics. With a Bibliography (much
                                enlarged) by JOHN LANE, Portrait, etc. Fourth Edition. Cr. 8vo.
                                Purple cloth. 5s. 6d. net.
                            THE RELIGION OF A LITERARY MAN. 5th thousand. Crown 8vo. Purple
                                cloth. 3s. 6d. net. Also a special rubricated edition on hand-made
                                paper. 8vo. 10s. 6d. net. New York: G.P. Putnam's Sons.
                        
                    LIPSETT (CALDWELL). ORANGE AND GREEN. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    LOWRY (H.D.). WOMEN'S TRAGEDIES. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    LUCAS (WINIFRED). A VOLUME OF POEMS. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. net. [In
                        preparation.
                    LYNCH (HANNAH). THE GREAT GALEOTO AND FOLLY OR SAINTLINESS. Two Plays,
                        from the Spanish of José ECHEGARAY, with an Introduction. Small 4to. 5s. 6d.
                        net. Boston: Lamson, Wolffe & Co.
                    MACHEN (ARTHUR). 
                            THE GREAT GOD PAN. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                            THE THREE IMPOSTORS. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                        
                    MACLEOD (FIONA). THE MOUNTAIN LOVERS. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    MAKOWER (STANLEY V.). THE MIRROR OF MUSIC. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    MARZIALS (THEO.). THE GALLERY OF PIGEONS AND OTHER POEMS. Post 8vo. 4s.
                        6d. net. [Very few remain. Transferred by the Author to the present
                        Publisher.
                    MATHEW (FRANK). THE WOOD OF THE BRAMBLES: A Novel. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. net.
                        [In preparation.
                    
                    THE MAYFAIR SET. Each volume fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. net. 
                            Vol. I. THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A BOY: Passages selected by his
                                Friend, G.S. STREET. With a Title-page designed by C. W. FURSE.
                                [Fourth Edition now ready.
                            Vol. II. THE JONESES AND THE ASTERISKS: a Story in Monologue. By
                                GERALD CAMPBELL. With Title-page and six Illustrations by F.H.
                                TOWNSEND.
                            Vol. III. SELECT CONVERSATIONS WITH AN UNCLE NOW EXTINCT. By H.G.
                                WELLS. With Title-page by F.H. TOWNSEND. The following are in
                                preparation.
                            Vol. IV. THE FEASTS OF AUTOLYCUS: The Diary of a Greedy Woman.
                                Edited by ELIZABETH ROBINS PENNELL.
                            Vol. V. MRS ALBERT GRUNDY: Observations in Philistia. By HAROLD
                                FREDERIC.
                            Vol. VI. FOR PLAIN WOMEN ONLY. By GEORGE FLEMING. New York: The
                                Merriam Company.
                        
                    MEREDITH (GEORGE). THE FIRST PUBLISHED PORTRAIT OF THIS AUTHOR, engraved
                        on the wood by W. BISCOMBE GARDNER, after the painting by G.F. WATTS. Proof
                        copies on Japanese vellum, signed by painter and engraver. £1, 1s.
                        net.
                    MEYNELL (MRS.), (ALICE C. THOMPSON). 
                            POEMS. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. net. [Out of Print at present. A few of
                                the 50 large paper copies (First Edition) remain, 12s. 6d.
                                net.
                            THE RHYTHM OF LIFE AND OTHER ESSAYS. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo.
                                3s. 6d. net. A few of the 50 large paper copies (First Edition)
                                remain, 12s. 6d. net. See also HAKE.
                        
                    MILLER (JOAQUIN). THE BUILDING OF THE CITY BEAUTIFUL. Fcap. 8vo. With a
                        Decorated Cover. 5s. net. Chicago: Stone & Kimball.
                    MILMAN (LENA). DOSTOIEVSKY'S POOR FOLK. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    
                    MONKHOUSE (ALLAN). BOOKS AND PLAYS: A Volume of Essays on Meredith,
                        Borrow, Ibsen, and others. 400 copies. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. Philadelphia:
                        J.B. Lippincott Co.
                    MOORE (GEORGE). See KEYNOTES SERIES, Vol. III.
                    NESBIT (E.). 
                            A POMANDER OF VERSE. With a Title-page and Cover designed by
                                LAURENCE HOUSMAN. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. Chicago: A.C. McClurg
                                & Co.
                            IN HOMESPUN. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                        
                    NETTLESHIP (J.T.). ROBERT BROWNING: Essays and Thoughts. Third Edition.
                        With a Portrait. Crown 8vo. 5s. 6d. net. New York: Chas. Scribner's
                        Sons.
                    NOBLE (JAS. ASHCROFT). THE SONNET IN ENGLAND AND OTHER ESSAYS. Title-page
                        and Cover Design by AUSTIN YOUNG. 600 copies. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. Also 50
                        copies large paper. 12s. 6d. net.
                    O'SHAUGHNESSY (ARTHUR). HIS LIFE AND HIS WORK. With Selections from his
                        Poems. By LOUISE CHANDLER MOULTON. Portrait and Cover Design. Fcap. 8vo. 5s.
                        net. Chicago: Stone & Kimball.
                    OXFORD CHARACTERS. A series of lithographed portraits by WILL ROTHENSTEIN,
                        with text by F. YORK POWELL and others. To be issued monthly in term. Each
                        number will contain two portraits. Parts I. to VI. ready. 200 sets only,
                        folio, wrapper, 5s. net per part; 25 special large paper sets containing
                        proof impressions of the portraits signed by the artist, 10s. 6d. net per
                        part.
                    PENNELL (ELIZABETH ROBINS). THE FEASTS OF AUTOLYCUS. (See MAYFAIR
                        SET.)
                    PETERS (WM. THEODORE). POSIES OUT OF RINGS. Sq. 16mo. 3s. 6d. net. [In
                        preparation.
                    
                    PIERROT'S LIBRARY. Each volume with Title-page, Cover Design, and
                        End-papers designed by AUBREY BEARDSLEY. Sq. 16mo. 2s. 6d. net. The
                        following are in preparation. 
                            Vol. I. PIERROT. By H. DE VERE STACPOOLE.
                            Vol. II. MY LITTLE LADY ANNE. By Mrs EGERTON CASTLE.
                            Vol. III. DEATH, THE KNIGHT AND THE LADY. By H. DE VERE
                                STACPOOLE.
                            Vol. IV. SIMPLICITY. By A.T.G. PRICE.
                         Philadelphia: Henry Altemus.
                    PISSARRO (LUCIEN). THE QUEEN OF THE FISHES. A Story of the Valois, adapted
                        by MARGARET RUST, being a printed manuscript, decorated with pictures and
                        other ornaments, cut on the wood by LUCIEN PISSARO, and printed by him in
                        divers colours and in gold at his press in Epping. Edition limited to 70
                        copies, each numbered and signed. Crown 8vo, on Japanese hand-made paper,
                        bound in vellum, £1 net.
                    PLARR (VICTOR). IN THE DORIAN MOOD: Poems. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. [In
                        preparation.
                    PRICE (A.T.G.). SIMPLICITY. (See PIERROT'S LIBRARY.)
                    RADFORD (DOLLIE). SONGS AND OTHER VERSES. With Title-page designed by
                        PATTEN WILSON. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. net. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott
                        Co.
                    RAMSDEN (HERMIONE). See HANSSON.
                    RICKETTS (C.S.) AND C.H. SHANNON. HERO AND LEANDER. By CHRISTOPHER MARLOWE
                        and GEORGE CHAPMAN. With Borders, Initials, and Illustrations designed and
                        engraved on the wood by C. S. RICKETTS and C. H. SHANNON. Bound in English
                        vellum and gold. 200 copies only. 35s. net. Boston: Copeland &
                        Day.
                    RHYS (ERNEST). A LONDON ROSE AND OTHER RHYMES. With Title-page designed by
                        SELWYN IMAGE. 350 copies. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. New York: Dodd, Mead &
                        Co.
                    
                    ROBERTSON (JOHN M.). ESSAYS TOWARDS A CRITICAL METHOD. (New Series.) Crown
                        8vo. 5s. net. [In preparation.
                    ROBINSON (C. NEWTON). THE VIOL OF LOVE. With Ornaments and Cover Design by
                        LAURENCE HOUSMAN. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. Boston: Lamson, Wolffe &
                        Co.
                    ST. CYRES (LORD). THE LITTLE FLOWERS OF ST. FRANCIS: A new rendering into
                        English of the Fioretti di San Francesco. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. [In
                        preparation.
                    SHARP (EVELYN). AT THE RELTON ARMS. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    SHIEL (M. P.). PRINCE ZALESKI. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    SMITH (JOHN). PLATONIC AFFECTIONS. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    STACPOOLE (H. DE VERE). 
                            PIERROT. (See PIERROT'S LIBRARY.)
                            DEATH, THE KNIGHT AND THE LADY. (See PIERROT'S LIBRARY).
                        
                    STEVENSON (ROBERT LOUIS). 
                            PRINCE OTTO. A rendering in French by EGERTON CASTLE. Crown 8vo.
                                5s. net. [In preparation. Also 100 copies on large paper, uniform in
                                size with the Edinburgh Edition of the Works.
                            A CHILD'S GARDEN OF VERSES. With nearly 100 Illustrations by
                                CHARLES ROBINSON. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. [In preparation.
                        
                    STODDART (THOS. TOD). THE DEATH WAKE. With an Introduction by ANDREW LANG.
                        Fcap. 8vo. 5s. net. Chicago: Way &Williams.
                    STREET (G.S.). 
                            THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A BOY. (See MAYFAIR SET.)
                            MINIATURES AND MOODS. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. net. Transferred by the
                                Author to the present Publisher. New York: The Merriam Co.
                        
                    SWETTENHAM (F.A.). MALAY SKETCHES. With Title-page and Cover Design by
                        PATTEN WILSON. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. New York: Macmillan & Co.
                    SYRETT (NETTA). NOBODY'S FAULT. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    
                    TABB (JOHN B.). POEMS. Sq. 32mo. 4s. 6d. net. Boston: Copeland &
                        Day.
                    TAYLOR (UNA). NETS FOR THE WIND. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                    TENNYSON (FREDERICK). POEMS OF THE DAY AND YEAR. With a Title-page by
                        PATTEN WILSON. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. Chicago: Stone &Kimball.
                    THIMM (C.A.). A COMPLETE BIBLIOGRAPHY OF THE ART OF FENCE, DUELLING, ETC.
                        With Illustrations. [In preparation.
                    THOMPSON (FRANCIS). 
                            POEMS. With Frontispiece, Title-page, and Cover Design by LAURENCE
                                HOUSMAN. Fourth Edition. Pott 4to. 5s. net. Boston: Copeland
                                & Day.
                            SISTER SONGS: An Offering to Two Sisters. With Frontispiece,
                                Title-page, and Cover Design by LAURENCE HOUSMAN. Pott 4to. 5s. net.
                                Boston: Copeland & Day.
                        
                    THOREAU (HENRY DAVID). POEMS OF NATURE. Selected and edited by HENRY S.
                        SALT and FRANK B. SANBORN, with a Title-page designed by PATTEN WILSON.
                        Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. net. [In preparation. Boston and New York: Houghton,
                        Mifflin & Co.
                    TYNAN HINKSON (KATHARINE). 
                            CUCKOO SONGS. With Title-page and Cover Design by LAURENCE
                                HOUSMAN. Fcap. 8vo. 5s. net. Boston: Copeland & Day.
                            MIRACLE PLAYS: OUR LORD'S COMING AND CHILDHOOD. With Six
                                Illustrations and a Title-page by PATTEN WILSON. Fcap. 8vo. net. [In
                                preparation. Chicago: Stone & Kimball.
                        
                    WATSON (ROSAMUND MARRIOTT). 
                            VESPERTILIA AND OTHER POEMS. With a Title-page designed by R.
                                ANNING BELL. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. net.
                            A SUMMER NIGHT AND OTHER POEMS. New edition, with a decorative
                                Title-page. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. net. Chicago: Way & Williams. [In
                                preparation.
                        
                    WATSON (H.B. MARRIOTT). 
                            AT THE FIRST CORNER. (See KEYNOTES SERIES.)
                            THE KING'S HIGHWAY. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. net. [In
                                preparation.
                        
                    
                    WATSON (WILLIAM). 
                            ODES AND OTHER POEMS. Fourth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, buckram. 4s. 6d.
                                net. New York: Macmillan & Co.
                            THE ELOPING ANGELS: A Caprice. Second Edition. Square 16mo,
                                buckram. 3s. 6d. net. New York: Macmillan & Co.
                            EXCURSIONS IN CRITICISM: being some Prose Recreations of a Rhymer.
                                Second Edition. Cr. 8vo. 5s. net. New York: Macmillan &
                                Co.
                            THE PRINCE'S QUEST AND OTHER POEMS. With a Bibliographical Note
                                added. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d. net.
                        
                    WATT (FRANCIS). THE LAW'S LUMBER ROOM. Fcap. 8vo. 3s. 6d. net. Chicago:
                        A.C. McClurg & Co.
                    WATTS (THEODORE). POEMS. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. [In preparation. There will
                        also be an Edition de Luxe of this volume printed at the Kelmscott
                        Press.
                    WELLS (H.G.). SELECT CONVERSATIONS WITH AN UNCLE. (See MAYFAIR
                        SET.)
                    WHARTON (H.T.). SAPPHO. Memoir, Text, Selected Renderings, and a Literal
                        Translation by HENRY THORNTON WHARTON. With three Illustrations in
                        Photogravure, and a Cover designed by AUBREY BEARDSLEY. Fcap. 8vo. 7s. 6d.
                        net. Chicago: A.C. McClurg & Co.
                    THE YELLOW BOOK An Illustrated Quarterly Pott 4to. 5s. net. 
                            VOLUME I. April 1894. 272 pages. 15 Illustrations. [Out of
                                print.
                            VOLUME II. July 1894. 364 pages. 23 Illustrations.
                            VOLUME III. October 1894. 280 pages. 15 Illustrations.
                            VOLUME IV. January 1895. 285 pages. 16 Illustrations.
                            VOLUME V. April 1895. 317 pages. 14 Illustrations.
                            VOLUME Vl. July 1895. 335 pages. 16 Illustrations.
                         Boston: Copeland & Day.
                
            
        
    
