
     ----CITATION----
        Meynell, Alice Christiana Thompson (1847-1922). Hearts of Controversy. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 137 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (8-Apr-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7075
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    HEARTS OF CONTROVERSY 
                
                BY ALICE MEYNELL 
                
                    BURNS & OATES
                        28 Orchard Street.
                    LONDON W
                
            
            
            
                THE CONTENTS
                
                    SOME THOUGHTS OF A READER OF TENNYSON 1
                    DICKENS AS A MAN OF LETTERS 23
                    SWINBURNE’S LYRICAL POETRY 53
                    CHARLOTTE AND EMILY BRONTË 77
                    CHARMIAN 101
                    THE CENTURY OF MODERATION 109
                
            
            
            
                INTRODUCTION
                WHEN Wordworth’s little boy visited Charles Lamb in London, his host
                    wrote to the father at the Lakes that the boy was looking about him and making
                    observations. “Perhaps,” writes Lamb, “he has hitherto paid too little attention
                    to other men’s inventions, preferring, like Lord Foppington, the natural sprouts
                    of his own.”
                We must study other men’s inventions in our closet, but need we now print our
                    comments on them? Exposition, interpretation, by themselves are not necessary.
                    But for controversy there is cause.
            
        
        
            
            
                SOME THOUGHTS OF A READER OF TENNYSON
                FIFTY years after Tennyson's birth he was saluted a great poet by that
                    unanimous acclamation which includes mere clamour. Fifty further years, and his
                    centenary was marked by a new detraction. It is sometimes difficult to
                    distinguish the obscure but not unmajestic law of change from the sorry custom
                    of reaction. Change hastes not and rests not, reaction beats to and fro,
                    flickering about the moving mind of the world. Reaction—the paltry precipitancy
                    of the multitude—rather than the novelty of change, has brought about a ferment
                    and corruption of opinion on Tennyson's poetry. It may be said that opinion is
                    the same now as it was in the middle of the nineteenth century—the same, but
                    turned. All that was not worth having of admiration then has soured into
                    detraction now. It is of no more significance, acrid, than it was, sweet. What
                    the herding of opinion gave yesterday it is able
                    to take away to?day, that and no more.
                But besides the common favour?disfavour of the day, there is the tendency of
                    educated opinion, once disposed to accept the whole of Tennyson's poetry as
                    though he could not be “parted from himself,” and now disposed to reject the
                    whole, on the same plea. But if ever there was a poet who needed to be thus
                    “parted”—the word is his own—it is he who wrote both narrowly for his time and
                    liberally for all time, and who—this is the more important character of his
                    poetry—had both a style and a manner: a masterly style, a magical style, a too
                    dainty manner, nearly a trick; a noble landscape and in it figures something
                    ready?made. He is a subject for our alternatives of feeling, nay, our conflicts,
                    as is hardly another poet. We may deeply admire and wonder, and, in another line
                    or hemistich, grow indifferent or delightly averse. He sheds the luminous suns
                    of dreams upon men and women who would do well with footlights; waters their way
                    with rushing streams of Paradise and cataracts from visionary hills; laps
                        them in divine darkness; leads them into
                    those touching landscapes, “the lovely that are not beloved;” long grey fields,
                    cool sombre summers, and meadows thronged with unnoticeable flowers; speeds his
                    carpet knight—or is that hardly a just name for one whose sword “smites” so
                    well?—upon a carpet of authentic wild flowers; pushes his rovers, in costume,
                    from off blossoming shores, on the keels of old romance. The style and the
                    manner, I have said, run side by side. If we may take one poet's too violent
                    phrase, and consider poets to be “damned to poetry,” why, then, Tennyson is
                    condemned by a couple of sentences, “to run concurrently.” We have the style and
                    the manner locked together at times in a single stanza, locked and yet not
                    mingled. There should be no danger for the more judicious reader lest impatience
                    at the peculiar Tennyson trick should involve the great Tennyson style in a
                    sweep of protest. Yet the danger has in fact proved real within the present and
                    recent years, and seems about to threaten still more among the less judicious.
                    But it will not long prevail. The vigorous
                    little nation of lovers of poetry, alive one by one within the vague multitude
                    of the nation of England, cannot remain finally insensible to what is at once
                    majestic and magical in Tennyson. For those are not qualities they neglect in
                    their other masters. How, valuing singleness of heart in the sixteenth century,
                    splendour in the seventeenth, composure in the eighteenth; how, with a spiritual
                    ear for the note—commonly called Celtic, albeit it is the most English thing in
                    the world—the wild wood note of the remoter song; how, with the educated sense
                    of style, the liberal sense of ease; how, in a word, fostering Letters and
                    loving Nature, shall that choice nation within England long disregard these
                    virtues in the nineteenth?century master? How disregard him, for more than the
                    few years of reaction, for the insignificant reasons of his bygone taste, his
                    insipid courtliness, his prettiness, or what not? It is no dishonour to
                    Tennyson, for it is a dishonour to our education, to disparage a poet who wrote
                    but the two—had he written no more of their kind—lines of “The Passing of
                    Arthur,” of which, before I quote them, I will
                    permit myself the personal remembrance of a great contemporary author's opinion.
                    Mr. Meredith, speaking to me of the high?water mark of English style in poetry
                    and prose, cited those lines as topmost in poetry:— 
                        On one side lay the ocean, and on one
                        Lay a great water, and the moon was full.
                     Here is no taint of manner, no pretty posture or habit, but the simplicity
                    of poetry and the simplicity of Nature, something on the yonder side of imagery.
                    It is to be noted that this noble passage is from Tennyson's generally weakest
                    kind of work—blank verse; and should thus be a sign that the laxity of so many
                    parts of the “Idylls” and other blank verse poems was a quite unnecessary fault.
                    Lax this form of poetry undoubtedly is with Tennyson. His blank verse is often
                    too easy; it cannot be said to fly, for the paradoxical reason that it has no
                    weight; it slips by, without halting or tripping indeed, but also without the
                    friction of the movement of vitality. This quality, which is so near to a fault,
                    this quality of ease, has come to be disregarded in our day. That Horace Walpole overpraised this virtue is not good
                    reason that we should hold it for a vice. Yet we do more than undervalue it; and
                    several of our authors, in prose and poetry, seem to find much merit in the
                    manifest difficulty; they will not have a key to turn, though closely and
                    tightly, in oiled wards; let the reluctant iron catch and grind, or they would
                    even prefer to pick you the lock.
                But though we may think it time that the quality once over?prized should be
                    restored to a more proportionate honour, our great poet Tennyson shows us that
                    of all merits ease is, unexpectedly enough, the most dangerous. It is not only,
                    with him, that the wards are oiled, it is also that the key turns loosely. This
                    is true of much of the beautiful “Idylls,” but not of their best passages, nor
                    of such magnificent heroic verse as that of the close of “A Vision of Sin,” or
                    of “Lucretius.” As to the question of ease, we cannot have a better maxim than
                    Coventry Patmore's saying that poetry “should confess, but not suffer from, its
                    difficulties.” And we could hardly find a more curious example of the present
                    love of verse that not only confesses but brags
                    of difficulties, and not only suffers from them but cries out under the
                    suffering, and shows us the grimace of the pain of it, than I have lighted upon
                    in the critical article of a recent quarterly. Reviewing the book of a “poet”
                    who manifestly has an insuperable difficulty in hacking his work into
                    ten?syllable blocks, and keeping at the same time any show of respect for the
                    national grammar, the critic gravely invites his reader to “note” the phrase
                    “neath cliffs” (apparently for “beneath the cliffs”) as “characteristic.” Shall
                    the reader indeed “note” such a matter? Truly he has other things to do. This is
                    by the way. Tennyson is always an artist, and the finish of his work is one of
                    the principal notes of his versification. How this finish comports with the
                    excessive ease of his prosody remains his own peculiar secret. Ease, in him,
                    does not mean that he has any unhandsome slovenly ways. On the contrary, he
                    resembles rather the warrior with the pouncet box. It is the man of “neath
                    cliffs” who will not be at the trouble of making a place for so much as a definite article. Tennyson certainly
                        worked, and the exceeding ease of his blank verse comes perhaps
                    of this little paradox—that he makes somewhat too much show of the hiding of his
                    art.
                In the first place the poet with the great welcome style and the little unwelcome
                    manner, Tennyson is, in the second place, the modern poet who withstood France.
                    (That is, of course, modern France—France since the Renaissance. From medieval
                    Provence there is not an English poet who does not own inheritance.) It was some
                    time about the date of the Restoration that modern France began to be modish in
                    England. A ruffle at the Court of Charles, a couplet in the ear of Pope, a
                        tour de phrase from Mme. de Sévigné much
                    to the taste of Walpole, later the good example of French painting—rich interest
                    paid for the loan of our Constable's initiative—later still a scattering of
                    French taste, French critical business, over all the shallow places of our
                    literature—these have all been phases of a national vanity of ours, an eager and
                    anxious fluttering or jostling to be foremost and French. Matthew Arnold's essay on criticism fostered this
                    anxiety, and yet I find in this work of his a lack of easy French knowledge,
                    such as his misunderstanding of the word brutalité, which means no more, or little more, than roughness.
                    Matthew Arnold, by the way, knew so little of the French character as to be
                    altogether ignorant of French provincialism, French practical sense, and French
                    “convenience.” “Convenience” is his dearest word of contempt, “practical sense”
                    his next dearest, and he throws them a score of times in the teeth of the
                    English. Strange is the irony of the truth. For he bestows those withering words
                    on the nation that has the fifty religions, and attributes “ideas”—as the
                    antithesis of “convenience” and “practical sense”—to the nation that has the
                    fifty sauces. And not for a moment does he suspect himself of this blunder, so
                    manifest as to be disconcerting to his reader. One seems to hear an incurably
                    English accent in all this, which indeed is reported, by his acquaintance, of
                    Matthew Arnold's actual speaking of French. It is certain that he has not the interest of familiarity with the language,
                    but only the interest of strangeness. Now, while we meet the effect of the
                    French coat in our seventeenth century, of the French light verse in our earlier
                    eighteenth century, and of French philosophy in our later, of the French
                    revolution in our Wordsworth, of the French painting in our nineteenth?century
                    studios, of French fiction—and the dregs are still running—in our libraries, of
                    French poetry in our Swinburne, of French criticism in our Arnold, Tennyson
                    shows the effect of nothing French whatever. Not the Elizabethans, not
                    Shakespeare, not Jeremy Taylor, not Milton, not Shelley were (in their art, not
                    in their matter) more insular in their time. France, by the way, has more than
                    appreciated the homage of Tennyson's contemporaries; Victor Hugo avers, in
                        Les Misérables, that our people imitate his people in all
                    things, and in particular he rouses in us a delighted laughter of surprise by
                    asserting that the London street?boy imitates the Parisian street?boy. There is,
                    in fact, something of a street?boy in some of our late more literary
                    mimicries.
                
                We are apt to judge a poet too exclusively by his imagery. Tennyson is hardly a
                    great master of imagery. He has more imagination than imagery. He sees the
                    thing, with so luminous a mind's eye, that it is sufficient to him; he needs not
                    to see it more beautifully by a similitude. “A clear?walled city” is enough;
                    “meadows” are enough—indeed Tennyson reigns for ever over all meadows; “the
                    happy birds that change their sky”; “Bright Phosphor, fresher for the night”;
                    “Twilight and evening bell”; “the stillness of the central sea”; “that friend of
                    mine who lives in God”; “the solitary morning”; “Four grey walls and four grey
                    towers”; “Watched by weeping queens”; these are enough, illustrious, and needing
                    not illustration.
                If we do not see Tennyson to be the lonely, the first, the one that
                    he is, this is because of the throng of his following, though a number that are
                    of that throng hardly know, or else would deny, their flocking. But he added to
                    our literature not only in the way of cumulation, but by the advent of his
                    single genius. He is one of the few fountain?head poets of the world. The new landscape which was his—the lovely
                    unbeloved—is, it need hardly be said, the matter of his poetry and not its
                    inspiration. It may have seemed to some readers that it is the novelty, in
                    poetry, of this homely unscenic scenery—this Lincolnshire quality—that accounts
                    for Tennyson's freshness of vision. But it is not so. Tennyson is fresh also in
                    scenic scenery; he is fresh with the things that others have outworn; mountains,
                    desert islands, castles, elves, what you will that is conventional. Where are
                    there more divinely poetic lines than those, which will never be wearied with
                    quotation, beginning, “A splendour falls”? What castle walls have stood in such
                    a light of old romance, where in all poetry is there a sound wilder than that of
                    those faint “horns of elfland”? Here is the remoteness, the beyond, the light
                    delirium, not of disease but of more rapturous and delicate health, the closer
                    secret of poetry. This most English of modern poets has been taunted with his
                    mere gardens. He loved, indeed, the “lazy lilies,” of the exquisite garden of
                    “The Gardener's Daughter,” but he betook his
                    ecstatic English spirit also far afield and overseas; to the winter places of
                    his familiar nightingale:— 
                        When first the liquid note beloved of men
                        Comes flying over many a windy wave;
                     to the lotus?eaters' shore; to the outland landscapes of “The Palace of
                    Art”—the “clear?walled city by the sea,” the “pillared town,” the “full?fed
                    river”; to the “pencilled valleys” of Monte Rosa; to the “vale in Ida”; to that
                    tremendous upland in the “Vision of Sin”:— 
                        At last I heard a voice upon the slope
                        Cry to the summit, Is there any hope?
                        To which an answer pealed from that high land,
                        But in a tongue no man could understand.
                     The Cleopatra of “The Dream of Fair Women” is but a ready?made Cleopatra,
                    but when in the shades of her forest she remembers the sun of the world, she
                    leaves the page of Tennyson's poorest manner and becomes one with Shakespeare's
                    queen:— 
                        We drank the Libyan sun to sleep.
                     Nay, there is never a passage of manner but a great passage of style
                    rebukes our dislike and recalls our heart again. The dramas, less than the lyrics, and even less than the “Idylls,” are
                    matter for the true Tennysonian. Their action is, at its liveliest rather
                    vivacious than vital, and the sentiment, whether in “Becket” or in “Harold,” is
                    not only modern, it is fixed within Tennyson's own peculiar score or so of
                    years. But that he might have answered, in drama, to a stronger stimulus, a
                    sharper spur, than his time administered, may be guessed from a few passages of
                    “Queen Mary,” and from the dramatic terror of the arrow in “Harold.” The line
                    has appeared in prophetic fragments in earlier scenes, and at the moment of doom
                    it is the outcry of unquestionable tragedy:— 
                        Sanguelac—Sanguelac—the arrow—the arrow!—Away!
                    
                Tennyson is also an eminently all?intelligible poet. Those whom he puzzles or
                    confounds must be a flock with an incalculable liability to go wide of any
                    road—“down all manner of streets,” as the desperate drover cries in the
                    anecdote. But what are streets, however various, to the ways of error that a
                    great flock will take in open country—
                        min? utely
                        minutely
                    , individually wrong, making mistakes upon hardly perceptible
                    occasions, or none—“minute fortuitous variations in any possible direction,” as
                    used to be said in exposition of the Darwinian theory? A vast outlying public,
                    like that of Tennyson, may make you as many blunders as it has heads; but the
                    accurate clear poet proved his meaning to all accurate perceptions. Where he
                    hesitates, his is the sincere pause of process and uncertainty. It has been said
                    that Tennyson, midway between the student of material science and the mystic,
                    wrote and thought according to an age that wavered, with him, between the two
                    minds, and that men have now taken one way or the other. Is this indeed true,
                    and are men so divided and so sure? Or have they not rather already turned, in
                    numbers, back to the parting, or meeting, of eternal roads? The religious
                    question that arises upon experience of death has never been asked with more
                    sincerity and attention than by him. If “In Memoriam” represents the mind of
                    yesterday it represents no less the mind of to?morrow. It is true that
                        pessimism and insurrection in their
                    ignobler forms—nay, in the ignoblest form of a fashion—have, or had but
                    yesterday, the control of the popular pen. Trivial pessimism or trivial
                    optimism, it matters little which prevails. For those who follow the one habit
                    to?day would have followed the other in a past generation. Fleeting as they are,
                    it cannot be within their competence to neglect or reject the philosophy of “In
                    Memoriam.” To the dainty stanzas of that poem, it is true, no great struggle of
                    reasoning was to be committed, nor would any such dispute be judiciously
                    entrusted to the rhymes of a song of sorrow. Tennyson here proposes, rather than
                    closes with, the ultimate question of our destiny. The conflict, for which he
                    proves himself strong enough, is in that magnificent poem of a thinker,
                    “Lucretius.” But so far as “In Memoriam” attempts, weighs, falters, and
                    confides, it is true to the experience of human anguish and intellect.
                I say intellect advisedly. Not for him such blunders of thought as Coleridge's in
                    “The Ancient Mariner” or Wordsworth's in “
                        Hart? leap
                        Hartleap
                     Well.” Coleridge names the sun, moon, and stars as when, in a dream,
                    the sleeping imagination is threatened with some significant illness. We see
                    them in his great poem as apparitions. Coleridge's senses are infinitely and
                    transcendently spiritual. But a candid reader must be permitted to think the
                    mere story silly. The wedding?guest might rise the morrow morn a sadder but he
                    assuredly did not rise a wiser man.
                As for Wordsworth, the most beautiful stanzas of “Hartleap Well” are fatally
                    rebuked by the truths of Nature. He shows us the ruins of an aspen wood, a
                    blighted hollow, a dreary place, forlorn because an innocent stag, hunted, had
                    there broken his heart in a leap from the rocks above; grass would not grow
                    there. 
                        This beast not unobserved by Nature fell,
                        His death was mourned by sympathy divine.
                     And the signs of that sympathy are cruelly asserted by the poet to be these
                    woodland ruins—cruelly, because the daily sight of the world blossoming over the
                    agonies of beast and bird is made less tolerable to us by such a fiction.
                    
                        The Being that is in the clouds and air
                        . . . . . .
                        Maintains a deep and reverential care
                        For the unoffending creature whom He loves.
                     The poet offers us as a proof of that “reverential care,” the visible
                    alteration of Nature at the scene of suffering—an alteration we have to dispense
                    with every day we pass in the woods. We are tempted to ask whether Wordsworth
                    himself believed in a sympathy he asks us—on such grounds!—to believe in? Did he
                    think his faith to be worthy of no more than a fictitious sign and a false
                    proof?
                Nowhere in the whole of Tennyson's thought is there such an attack upon our
                    reason and our heart. He is more serious than the solemn Wordsworth.
                And this poem, with all else that Tennyson wrote, tutors, with here and there a
                    subtle word, this nature?loving nation to perceive land, light, sky, and ocean,
                    as he perceived. To this we return, upon this we dwell. He has been to us,
                    firstly, the poet of two geniuses—a small and an immense; secondly, the modern
                    poet who answered in the negative that most significant modern question, French
                    or not French? But he was, before the outset of
                    all our study of him, of all our love of him, the poet of landscape, and this he
                    is more dearly than pen can describe him. This eternal character of his is keen
                    in the verse that is winged to meet a homeward ship with her “dewy decks,” and
                    in the sudden island landscape, 
                        The clover sod,
                        That takes the sunshine and the rains,
                        Or where the kneeling hamlet drains
                        The chalice of the grapes of God.
                     It is poignant in the garden?night:— 
                        A breeze began to tremble o'er
                        The large leaves of the sycamore,
                        . . . . . .
                        And gathering freshlier overhead,
                        Rocked the full?foliaged elm, and swung
                        The heavy?folded rose, and flung
                        The lilies to and fro, and said
                        “The dawn, the dawn,” and died away.
                    
                His are the exalted senses that sensual poets know nothing of. I think the sense
                    of hearing as well as the sense of sight, has never been more greatly exalted
                    than by Tennyson:— 
                        As from beyond the limit of the world,
                        Like the last echo born of a great cry.
                    
                As to this garden?character so much decried I confess that the “lawn” does not
                        generally delight me, the word nor the
                    thing. But in Tennyson's page the word is wonderful, as though it had never been
                    dull: “The mountain lawn was dewy?dark.” It is not that he brings the mountains
                    too near or ranks them in his own peculiar garden?plot, but that the word
                    withdraws, withdraws to summits, withdraws into dreams; the lawn is aloft,
                    alone, and as wild as ancient snow. It is the same with many another word or
                    phrase changed, by passing into his vocabulary, into something rich and strange.
                    His own especially is the March month—his “roaring moon.” His is the spirit of
                    the dawning month of flowers and storms; the golden, soft names of daffodil and
                    crocus are caught by the gale as you speak them in his verse, in a fine
                    disproportion with the energy and gloom. His was a new apprehension of nature,
                    an increase in the number, and not only in the sum, of our national
                    apprehensions of poetry in nature. Unaware of a separate angel of modern poetry
                    is he who is insensible to the Tennyson note—the new note that we reaffirm even
                    with the notes of Vaughan, Traherne, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Blake well in our ears—the Tennyson note of
                    splendour, all?distinct. He showed the perpetually transfigured landscape in
                    transfiguring words. He is the captain of our dreams. Others have lighted a
                    candle in England, he lit a sun. Through him our daily suns, and also the
                    backward and historic suns long since set, which he did not sing, are magnified;
                    and he bestows upon us an exalted retrospection. Through him Napoleon's sun of
                    Austerlitz rises, for us, with a more brilliant menace upon arms and the plain;
                    through him Fielding's “most melancholy sun” lights the dying man to the
                    setting?forth on that last voyage of his with such an immortal gleam, denying
                    hope, as would not have lighted, for us, the memory of that seaward morning, had
                    our poetry not undergone the illumination, the transcendent vision, of
                    Tennyson's genius.
                Emerson knew that the poet speaks adequately then only when he speaks “a little
                    wildly, or with the flower of the mind.” Tennyson, the clearest?headed of poets,
                    is our wild poet; wild, notwithstanding that little foppery we know of in
                    him—that walking delicately, like Agag; wild,
                    notwithstanding the work, the ease, the neatness, the finish; notwithstanding
                    the assertion of manliness which, in asserting, somewhat misses that mark; a
                    wilder poet than the rough, than the sensual, than the defiant, than the
                    accuser, than the denouncer. Wild flowers are his—great poet—wild winds, wild
                    lights, wild heart, wild eyes!
            
            
            
                DICKENS AS A MAN OF LETTERS
                IT was said for many years, until the reversal that now befalls the
                    sayings of many years had happened to this also, that Thackeray was the unkind
                    satirist and Dickens the kind humourist. The truth seems to be that Dickens
                    imagined more evil people than did Thackeray, but that he had an eager faith in
                    good ones. Nothing places him so entirely out of date as his trust in human
                    sanctity, his love of it, his hope for it, his leap at it. He saw it in a
                    woman's face first met, and drew it to himself in a man's hand first grasped. He
                    looked keenly for it. And if he associated minor degrees of goodness with any
                    kind of folly or mental ineptitude, he did not so relate sanctity; though he
                    gave it, for companion, ignorance; and joined the two, in Joe Gargery, most
                    tenderly. We might paraphrase, in regard to these two great authors, Dr.
                    Johnson's famous sentence: “Marriage has many pains, but celibacy has no joys.” Dickens has many
                    scoundrels, but Thackeray has no saints. Helen Pendennis is not holy, for she is
                    unjust and cruel; Amelia is not holy, for she is an egoist in love; Lady
                    Castlewood is not holy, for she too is cruel; and even Lady Jane is not holy,
                    for she is jealous; nor is Colonel Newcome holy, for he is haughty; nor Dobbin,
                    for he turns with a taunt upon a plain sister; nor Esmond, for he squanders his
                    best years in love for a material beauty; and these are the best of his good
                    people. And readers have been taught to praise the work of him who makes none
                    perfect; one does not meet perfect people in trains or at dinner, and this
                    seemed good cause that the novelist should be praised for his moderation; it
                    seemed to imitate the usual measure and moderation of nature.
                But Charles Dickens closed with a divine purpose divinely different. He consented
                    to the counsels of perfection. And thus he made Joe Gargery, not a man one might
                    easily find in a forge; and Esther Summerson, not a girl one may easily meet at
                    a dance; and Little Dorrit, who does not come to do a day's 
                        sew? ing
                        sewing
                    ; not that the man and the women are inconceivable, but that they are
                    unfortunately improbable. They are creatures created through a creating mind
                    that worked its six days for the love of good, and never rested until the
                    seventh, the final Sabbath. But granting that they are the counterpart, the
                    heavenly side, of caricature, this is not to condemn them. Since when has
                    caricature ceased to be an art good for man—an honest game between him and
                    nature? It is a tenable opinion that frank caricature is a better incident of
                    art than the mere exaggeration which is the more modern practice. The words mean
                    the same thing in their origin—an overloading. But as we now generally delimit
                    the words, they differ. Caricature, when it has the grotesque inspiration, makes
                    for laughter, and when it has the celestial, makes for admiration; in either
                    case there is a good understanding between the author and the reader, or between
                    the draughtsman and the spectator. We need not, for example, suppose that Ibsen
                    sat in a room surrounded by a repeating pattern of his hair and whiskers on the
                        wallpaper, but it makes us most exceedingly
                    mirthful and joyous to see him thus seated in Mr. Max Beerbohm's drawing; and
                    perhaps no girl ever went through life without harbouring a thought of self, but
                    it is very good for us all to know that such a girl was thought of by Dickens,
                    that he loved his thought, and that she is ultimately to be traced, through
                    Dickens, to God.
                But exaggeration establishes no good understanding between the reader and the
                    author. It is a solemn appeal to our credulity, and we are right to resent it.
                    It is the violence of a weakling hand—the worst manner of violence. Exaggeration
                    is conspicuous in the newer poetry, and is so far, therefore, successful,
                    conspicuousness being its aim. But it was also the vice of Swinburne, and was
                    the bad example he set to the generation that thought his tunings to be the
                    finest “music.” For instance, in an early poem he intends to tell us how a man
                    who loved a woman welcomed the sentence that condemned him to drown with her,
                    bound, his impassioned breast against hers, abhorring. He might have convinced
                        us of that welcome by one phrase of the
                    profound exactitude of genius. But he makes his man cry out for the greatest
                    bliss and the greatest imaginable glory to be bestowed upon the judge who
                    pronounces the sentence. And this is merely exaggeration. One takes pleasure in
                    rebuking the false ecstasy by a word thus prim and prosaic. The poet intended to
                    impose upon us, and he fails; we “withdraw our attention,” as Dr. Johnson did
                    when the conversation became foolish. In truth we do more, for we resent
                    exaggeration if we care for our English language. For exaggeration writes
                    relaxed, and not elastic, words and verses; and it is possible that the language
                    suffers something, at least temporarily—during the life of a couple of
                    generations, let us say—from the loss of elasticity and rebound brought about by
                    such strain. Moreover, exaggeration has always to outdo itself progressively.
                    There should have been a Durdles to tell this Swinburne that the habit of
                    exaggerating, like that of boasting, “grows upon you.”
                It may be added that later poetry shows us an
                    instance of exaggeration in the work of that major poet, Mr. Lascelles
                    Abercrombie. His violence and vehemence, his extremity, are generally signs not
                    of weakness but of power; and yet once he reaches a breaking?point that power
                    should never know. This is where his Judith holds herself to be so smirched and
                    degraded by the proffer of a reverent love (she being devoted to one only, a
                    dead man who had her heart) that thenceforth no bar is left to her entire
                    self?sacrifice to the loathed enemy Holofernes. To this, too, the prim rebuke is
                    the just one, a word for the mouth of governesses: “My dear, you
                    exaggerate.”
                It may be briefly said that exaggeration takes for granted some degree of
                    imbecility in the reader, whereas caricature takes for granted a high degree of
                    intelligence. Dickens appeals to our intelligence in all his caricature, whether
                    heavenly, as in Joe Gargery, or impish, as in Mrs. Micawber. The word
                    “caricature” that is used a thousand times to reproach him is the word that does
                    him singular honour.
                
                If I may define my own devotion to Dickens, it may be stated as chiefly, though
                    not wholly, admiration of his humour, his dramatic tragedy, and his watchfulness
                    over inanimate things and landscape. Passages of his books that are ranged
                    otherwise than under those characters often leave me out of the range of their
                    appeal or else definitely offend me. And this is not for the customary
                    reason—that Dickens could not draw a gentleman, that Dickens could not draw a
                    lady. It matters little whether he could or not. But as a fact he did draw a
                    gentleman, and drew him excellently well, in Cousin Feenix, as Mr. Chesterton
                    has decided. The question of the lady we may waive; if it is difficult to prove
                    a negative, it is difficult also to present one; and to the making, or
                    producing, or liberating, or detaching, or exalting, of the character of a lady
                    there enter many negatives; and Dickens was an obvious and a positive man.
                    Esther Summerson is a lady, but she is so much besides that her ladyhood does
                    not detach itself from her sainthood and her angelhood, so as to be
                    conspicuous—if, indeed, conspicuousness may be
                    properly predicated of the quality of a lady. It is a conventional saying that
                    sainthood and angelhood include the quality of a lady, but that saying is not
                    true; a lady has a great number of negatives all her own, and also some things
                    positive that are not at all included in goodness. However this may be—and it is
                    not important—Dickens, the genial Dickens, makes savage sport of women. Such a
                    company of envious dames and damsels cannot be found among the persons of the
                    satirist Thackeray. Kate Nickleby's beauty brings upon her at first sight the
                    enmity of her workshop companions; in the innocent pages of “Pickwick” the aunt
                    is jealous of the niece, and the niece retorts by wounding the vanity of the
                    aunt as keenly as she may; and so forth through early books and late. He takes
                    for granted that the women, old and young, who are not his heroines, wage this
                    war within the sex, being disappointed by defect of nature and fortune. Dickens
                    is master of wit, humour, and derision; and it must be confessed that his
                    derision is abundant, and is cast upon an artificially exposed and 
                        help? less
                        helpless
                     people; that is, he, a man, derides the women who miss what a man
                    declared to be their “whole existence.”
                The advice which M. Rodin received in his youth from Constant—“Learn to see the
                    other side; never look at forms only in extent; learn to see them always in
                    relief”—is the contrary of the counsel proper for a reader of Dickens. That
                    counsel should be, “Do not insist upon seeing the immortal figures of comedy ‘in
                    the round.’ You are to be satisfied with their face value, the face of two
                    dimensions. It is not necessary that you should seize Mr. Pecksniff from beyond,
                    and grasp the whole man and his destinies.” The hypocrite is a figure dreadful
                    and tragic, a shape of horror; and Mr. Pecksniff is a hypocrite, and a bright
                    image of heart?easing comedy. For comic fiction cannot exist without some such
                    paradox. Without it, where would our laugh be in response to the generous genius
                    which gives us Mr. Pecksniff's parenthesis to the mention of sirens (“Pagan, I
                    regret to say”); and the scene in which Mr. Pecksniff, after a stormy domestic
                    scene within, goes as it were accidentally to
                    the door to admit the rich kinsman he wishes to propitiate? “Then Mr. Pecksniff,
                    gently warbling a rustic stave, put on his garden hat, seized a spade, and
                    opened the street door, as if he thought he had, from his vineyard, heard a
                    modest rap, but was not quite certain.” The visitor had thundered at the door
                    while outcries of family strife had been rising in the house. “‘It is an ancient
                    pursuit, gardening. Primitive, my dear sir; for, if I am not mistaken, Adam was
                    the first of the calling. My Eve, I grieve to say, is no more, sir; but’ (and
                    here he pointed to his spade, and shook his head, as if he were not cheerful
                    without an effort) ‘but I do a little bit of Adam still.’ He had by this time
                    got them into the best parlour, where the portrait by Spiller and the bust by
                    Spoker were.” And again, Mr. Pecksniff, hospitable at the supper table: “‘This,’
                    he said, in allusion to the party, not the wine, ‘is a Mingling that repays one
                    for much disappointment and vexation. Let us be merry.’ Here he took a captain's
                    biscuit. ‘It is a poor heart that never rejoices; and our hearts are not poor.
                    No!’ With such stimulants to merriment did he
                    beguile the time and do the honours of the table.” Moreover it is a mournful
                    thing and an inexplicable, that a man should be as mad as Mr. Dick. None the
                    less is it a happy thing for any reader to watch Mr. Dick while David explains
                    his difficulty to Traddles. Mr. Dick was to be employed in copying, but King
                    Charles the First could not be kept out of the manuscripts; “Mr. Dick in the
                    meantime looking very deferentially and seriously at Traddles, and sucking his
                    thumb.” And the amours of the gentleman in gaiters who threw the
                    vegetable?marrows over the garden wall. Mr. F.'s aunt, again! And Augustus
                    Moddle, our own Moddle, whom a great French critic most justly and accurately
                    brooded over. “Augustus, the gloomy maniac,” says Taine, “makes us shudder.” A
                    good medical diagnosis. Long live the logical French intellect!
                Truly, Humour talks in his own language, nay, his own dialect, whereas Passion
                    and Pity speak the universal tongue.
                It is strange—it seems to me deplorable—that Dickens himself was not content to
                        leave his wonderful hypocrite—one who
                    should stand imperishable in comedy—in the two dimensions of his own admirable
                    art. After he had enjoyed his own Pecksniff, tasting him with the “strenuous
                    tongue” of Keats's voluptuary bursting “joy's grapes against his palate fine,”
                    Dickens most unfairly gives himself the other and incompatible joy of grasping
                    his Pecksniff in the third dimension, seizes him “in the round,” horsewhips him
                    out of all keeping, and finally kicks him out of a splendid art of fiction into
                    a sorry art of “poetical justice,” a Pecksniff not only defeated but undone.
                And yet Dickens's retribution upon sinners is a less fault than his reforming
                    them. It is truly an act denoting excessive simplicity of mind in him. He never
                    veritably allows his responsibility as a man to lapse. Men ought to be good, or
                    else to become good, and he does violence to his own excellent art, and yields
                    it up to his sense of morality. Ah, can we measure by years the time between
                    that day and this? Is the fastidious, the impartial, the non?moral novelist only
                    the grandchild, and not the remote posterity,
                    of Dickens, who would not leave Scrooge to his egoism, or Gradgrind to his
                    facts, or Mercy Pecksniff to her absurdity, or Dombey to his pride? Nay, who
                    makes Micawber finally to prosper? Truly, the most unpardonable thing Dickens
                    did in those deplorable last chapters of his was the prosperity of Mr. Micawber.
                    “Of a son, in difficulties”—the perfect Micawber nature is respected as to his
                    origin, and then perverted as to his end. It is a pity that Mr. Peggotty ever
                    came back to England with such tidings. And our last glimpse of the emigrants
                    had been made joyous by the sight of the young Micawbers on the eve of
                    emigration; “every child had its own wooden spoon attached to its body by a
                    strong line,” in preparation for Colonial life. And then Dickens must needs go
                    behind the gay scenes, and tell us that the long and untiring delight of the
                    book was over. Mr. Micawber, in the Colonies, was never again to make punch with
                    lemons, in a crisis of his fortunes, and “resume his peeling with a desperate
                    air”; nor to observe the expression of his friends' faces during Mrs. Micawber's masterly exposition of the financial
                    situation or of the possibilities of the coal trade; nor to eat walnuts out of a
                    paper bag what time the die was cast and all was over. Alas! nothing was over
                    until Mr. Micawber's pecuniary liabilities were over, and the perfect comedy
                    turned into dulness, the joyous impossibility of a figure of immortal fun into
                    cold improbability.
                There are several such late or last chapters that one would gladly cut away: that
                    of Mercy Pecksniff's pathos, for example; that of Mr. Dombey's installation in
                    his daughter's home; that which undeceives us as to Mr. Boffin's antic
                    disposition. But how true and how whole a heart it was that urged these unlucky
                    conclusions! How shall we venture to complain? The hand that made its Pecksniff
                    in pure wit, has it not the right to belabour him in earnest—albeit a kind of
                    earnest that disappoints us? And Mr. Dombey is Dickens's own Dombey, and he must
                    do what he will with that finely wrought figure of pride. But there is a little
                    irony in the fact that Dickens leaves more than one villain to his orderly fate
                    for whom we care little either way; it is
                    nothing to us, whom Carker never convinced, that the train should catch him, nor
                    that the man with the moustache and the nose, who did but weary us, should be
                    crushed by the falling house. Here the end holds good in art, but the art was
                    not good from the first. But then, again, neither does Bill Sikes experience a
                    change of heart, nor Jonas Chuzzlewit; and the end of each is most excellently
                    told.
                George Meredith said that the most difficult thing to write in fiction was
                    dialogue. But there is surely one thing at least as difficult—a thing so rarely
                    well done that a mere reader might think it to be more difficult than dialogue;
                    and that is the telling what happened. Something of the fatal
                    languor and preoccupation that persist beneath all the violence of our stage—our
                    national undramatic character—is perceptible in the narrative of our literature.
                    The things the usual modern author says are proportionately more energetically
                    produced than those he tells. But Dickens, being simple and dramatic and capable
                    of one thing at a time, and that thing whole,
                    tells us what happened with a perfect speed which has neither hurry nor delays.
                    Those who saw him act found him a fine actor, and this we might know by reading
                    the murder in Oliver Twist, the murder in Martin
                        Chuzzlewit, the coming of the train upon Carker, the long moment of
                    recognition when Pip sees his guest, the convict, reveal himself in his chambers
                    at night. The swift spirit, the hammering blow of his narrative, drive the great
                    storm in David Copperfield through the poorest part of the
                    book—Steerforth's story. There is surely no greater gale to be read of than
                    this: from the first words, “‘Don't you think that,’ I said to the coachman, ‘a
                    very remarkable sky?’” to the end of a magnificent chapter. “Flying clouds
                    tossed up into most remarkable heaps, suggesting greater heights in the clouds
                    than there were depths below them.... There had been a wind all day; and it was
                    rising then with an extraordinary great sound ... Long before we saw the sea,
                    its spray was on our lips ... The water was out over the flat country, and every
                    sheet and puddle lashed its banks, and had its stress of little breakers. When we came within sight of the
                    sea, the waves on the horizon, caught at intervals above the boiling abyss, were
                    like glimpses of another shore, with towers and buildings.... The people came to
                    their doors all aslant, and with streaming hair.” David dreams of a cannonade,
                    when at last he “fell—off a tower and down a precipice—into the depths of
                    sleep.” In the morning, “the wind might have lulled a little, though not more
                    sensibly than if the cannonading I had dreamed of had been diminished by the
                    silencing of half a dozen guns out of hundreds.” “It went from me with a shock,
                    like a ball from a rifle,” says David in another place, after the visit of a
                    delirious impulse; here is the volley of departure, the shock of passion
                    vanishing more perceptibly than it came.
                The tempest in David Copperfield combines Dickens's dramatic tragedy
                    of narrative with his wonderful sense of sea and land. But here are landscapes
                    in quietness: “There has been rain this afternoon, and a wintry shudder goes
                    among the little pools in the cracked, uneven
                    flag?stones.... Some of the leaves, in a timid rush, seek sanctuary within the
                    low?arched cathedral door; but two men coming out resist them, and cast them out
                    with their feet.” The autumn leaves fall thick, “but never fast, for they come
                    circling down with a dead lightness.” Again, “Now the woods settle into great
                    masses as if they were one profound tree.” And yet again, “I held my mother in
                    my embrace, and she held me in hers; and among the still woods in the silence of
                    the summer day there seemed to be nothing but our two troubled minds that was
                    not at peace.” Yet, with a thousand great felicities of diction, Dickens had no
                        body of style.
                Dickens, having the single and simple heart of a moralist, had also the simple
                    eyes of a free intelligence, and the light heart. He gave his senses their way,
                    and well did they serve him. Thus his eyes—and no more modern man in anxious
                    search of “impressions” was ever so simple and so masterly: “Mr. Vholes gauntly
                    stalked to the fire, and warmed his funereal gloves.” “‘I thank you,’ said Mr.
                    Vholes, putting out his long black sleeve, to
                    check the ringing of the bell, ‘not any.’” Mr. and Mrs. Tope “are daintily
                    sticking sprigs of holly into the carvings and sconces of the cathedral stalls,
                    as if they were sticking them into the button?holes of the Dean &
                    Chapter.” The two young Eurasians, brother and sister, “had a certain air upon
                    them of hunter and huntress; yet withal a certain air of being the objects of
                    the chase rather than the followers.” This phrase lacks elegance—and Dickens is
                    not often inelegant, as those who do not read him may be surprised to learn—but
                    the impression is admirable; so is that which follows: “An indefinable kind of
                    pause coming and going on their whole expression, both of face and form.” Here
                    is pure, mere impression again: “Miss Murdstone, who was busy at her
                    writing?desk, gave me her cold finger?nails.” Lady Tippins's hand is “rich in
                    knuckles.” And here is vision with great dignity: “All beyond his figure was a
                    vast dark curtain, in solemn movement towards one quarter of the heavens.”
                With that singleness of sight—and his whole body was full of the light of it—he
                        had also the single hearing; the scene is
                    in the Court of Chancery on a London November day: “Leaving this address ringing
                    in the rafters of the roof, the very little counsel drops, and the fog knows him
                    no more.” “Mr. Vholes emerged into the silence he could scarcely be said to have
                    broken, so stifled was his tone.” “Within the grill?gate of the chancel, up the
                    steps surmounted loomingly by the fast?darkening organ, white robes could be
                    dimly seen, and one feeble voice, rising and falling in a cracked monotonous
                    mutter, could at intervals be faintly heard ... until the organ and the choir
                    burst forth and drowned it in a sea of music. Then the sea fell, and the dying
                    voice made another feeble effort; and then the sea rose high and beat its life
                    out, and lashed the roof, and surged among the arches, and pierced the heights
                    of the great tower; and then the sea was dry and all was still.” And this is how
                    a listener overheard men talking in the cathedral hollows: “The word
                    ‘confidence,’ shattered by the echoes, but still capable of being pieced
                    together, is uttered.”
                
                Wit, humour, derision—to each of these words we assign by custom a part in the
                    comedy of literature; and (again) those who do not read Dickens—perhaps even
                    those who read him a little—may acclaim him as a humourist and not know him as a
                    wit. But that writer is a wit, whatever his humour, who tells us of a member of
                    the Tite Barnacle family who had held a sinecure office against all protest,
                    that “he died with his drawn salary in his hand.” But let it be granted that
                    Dickens the humourist is foremost and most precious. For we might well spare the
                    phrase of wit just quoted rather than the one describing Traddles (whose hair
                    stood up), as one who looked “as though he had seen a cheerful ghost.” Or rather
                    than this:— 
                        He was so wooden a man that he seemed to have taken his wooden leg
                            naturally, and rather suggested to the fanciful observer that he might
                            be expected—if his development received no untimely check—to be
                            completely set up with a pair of wooden legs in about six months.
                     Or rather than the incident of the butcher and the beef?steak. He gently
                    presses it, in a cabbage leaf, into Tom Pinch's pocket. “‘For meat,‘ he said with some emotion, ‘must be humoured,
                    not drove.’”
                A generation, between his own and the present, thought Dickens to be vulgar; if
                    the cause of that judgement was that he wrote about people in shops, the cause
                    is discredited now that shops are the scenes of the novelist's research. “High
                    life” and most wretched life have now given place to the little shop and its
                    parlour, during a year or two. But Dr. Brown, the author of Rab and His
                        Friends, thought that Dickens committed vulgarities in his diction.
                    “A good man was Robin” is right enough; but “He was a good man, was Robin” is
                    not so well, and we must own that it is Dickensian; but assuredly Dickens writes
                    such phrases as it were dramatically, playing the cockney. I know of but two
                    words that Dickens habitually misuses, and Charles Lamb misuses one of them
                    precisely in Dickens's manner; it is not worth while to quote them. But for
                    these his English is admirable; he chooses what is good and knows what is not. A
                    little representative collection of the bad or foolish English of his day
                        might be made by gathering up what Dickens
                    forbore and what he derided; for instance, Mr. Micawber's portly phrase,
                    “gratifying emotions of no common description,” and Littimer's report that “the
                    young woman was partial to the sea.” This was the polite language of that time,
                    as we conclude when we find it to be the language that Charlotte Brontë shook
                    off; but before she shook it off she used it. Dickens, too, had something to
                    throw off; in his earlier books there is an inflation—rounded words fill the
                    inappropriate mouth of Bill Sikes himself—but he discarded them with a splendid
                    laugh. They are charged upon Mr. Micawber in his own character as author. See
                    him as he sits by to hear Captain Hopkins read the petition in the debtors'
                    prison “from His Most Gracious Majesty's unfortunate subjects.” Mr. Micawber
                    listened, we read, “with a little of an author's vanity, contemplating (not
                    severely) the spikes upon the opposite wall.” It should be remembered that when
                    Dickens shook himself free of everything that hampered his genius he was not so
                    much beloved or so much applauded as when he
                    gave to his cordial readers matter for facile sentiment and for humour of the
                    second order. His public were eager to be moved and to laugh, and he gave them
                    Little Nell and Sam Weller; he loved to please them, and it is evident that he
                    pleased himself also. Mr. Micawber, Mr. Pecksniff, Mrs. Nickleby, Mrs. Chick,
                    Mrs. Pipchin, Mr. Augustus Moddle, Mrs. Jellyby, Mrs. Plornish, are not so
                    famous as Sam Weller and Little Nell, nor is Traddles, whose hair looked as
                    though he had seen a cheerful ghost.
                We are told of the delight of the Japanese man in a chance finding of something
                    strange?shaped, an asymmetry that has an accidental felicity, an interest. If he
                    finds such a grace or disproportion—whatever the interest may be—in a stone or a
                    twig that has caught his ambiguous eye at the roadside, he carries it to his
                    home to place it in its irregularly happy place. Dickens seems to have had a
                    like joy in things misshapen or strangely shapen, uncommon or grotesque. He
                    saddled even his heroes—those heroes are, perhaps, his worst work, young men at
                    once conventional and improbable—with
                    whimsically ugly names; while his invented names are whimsically perfect: that
                    of Vholes for the predatory silent man in black, and that of Tope for the
                    cathedral verger. A suggestion of dark and vague flight in Vholes; something of
                    old floors, something respectably furtive and musty, in Tope. In Dickens, the
                    love of lurking, unusual things, human and inanimate—he wrote of his discoveries
                    delightedly in his letters—was hypertrophied; and it has its part in the
                    simplest and the most fantastic of his humours, especially those that are due to
                    his child?like eyesight; let us read, for example, of the rooks that seemed to
                    attend upon Dr. Strong (late of Canterbury) in his Highgate garden, “as if they
                    had been written to about him by the Canterbury rooks and were observing him
                    closely in consequence”; and of Master Micawber, who had a remarkable head
                    voice—“On looking at Master Micawber again I saw that he had a certain
                    expression of face as if his voice were behind his eyebrows”; and of Joe in his
                    Sunday clothes, “a scarecrow in good circumstances”; and of the cook's cousin in the Life Guards, with such long
                    legs that “he looked like the afternoon shadow of somebody else”; and of Mrs.
                    Markleham, “who stared more like a figure?head intended for a ship to be called
                    the Astonishment, than anything else I can think of.” But there is no reader who
                    has not a thousand such exhilarating little sights in his memory of these pages.
                    From the gently grotesque to the fantastic run Dickens's enchanted eyes, and in
                    Quilp and Miss Mowcher he takes his joy in the extreme of deformity; and a
                    spontaneous combustion was an accident much to his mind.
                Dickens wrote for a world that either was exceedingly excitable and sentimental,
                    or had the convention or tradition of great sentimental excitability. All his
                    people, suddenly surprised, lose their presence of mind. Even when the surprise
                    is not extraordinary their actions are wild. When Tom Pinch calls upon John
                    Westlock in London, after no very long separation, John, welcoming him at
                    breakfast, puts the rolls into his boots, and so forth. And this kind of
                    distraction comes upon men and women everywhere
                    in his books—distractions of laughter as well. All this seems artificial to?day,
                    whereas Dickens in his best moments is the simplest, as he is the most vigilant,
                    of men. But his public was as present to him as an actor's audience is to the
                    actor, and I cannot think that this immediate response was good for his art.
                    Assuredly he is not solitary. We should not wish him to be solitary as a poet
                    is, but we may wish that now and again, even while standing applauded and
                    acclaimed, he had appraised the applause more coolly and more justly, and within
                    his inner mind.
                Those critics who find what they call vulgarisms think they may safely go on to
                    accuse Dickens of bad grammar. The truth is that his grammar is not only good
                    but strong; it is far better in construction than Thackeray's, the ease of whose
                    phrase sometimes exceeds and is slack. Lately, during the recent centenary time,
                    a writer averred that Dickens “might not always be parsed,” but that we loved
                    him for his, etc., etc. Dickens's page is to be parsed as strictly as any man's.
                    It is, apart from the matter of grammar, a
                    wonderful thing that he, with his little education, should have so excellent a
                    diction. In a letter that records his reluctance to work during a holiday, the
                    word “wave” seems to me perfect: “Imaginary butchers and bakers wave me to my
                    desk.” In his exquisite use of the word “establishment” in the following phrase,
                    we find his own perfect sense of the use of words in his own day; but in the
                    second quotation given there is a most beautiful sign of education. “Under the
                    weight of my wicked secret” (the little boy Pip had succoured his convict with
                    his brother?in?law's provisions) “I pondered whether the Church would be
                    powerful enough to shield me ... if I divulged to that establishment.” And this
                    is the phrase that may remind us of the eighteenth?century writers of prose, and
                    among those writers of none so readily as of Bolingbroke: it occurs in that
                    passage of Esther's life in which, having lost her beauty, she resolves to
                    forego a love unavowed. “There was nothing to be undone; no chain for him to
                    drag or for me to break.”
                
                If Dickens had had the education which he had not, his English could not have
                    been better; but if he had had the usage du
                        monde which as a young man he had not, there would have been a
                    difference. He would not, for instance, have given us the preposterous scenes in
                        Nicholas Nickleby in which parts are played by Lord Frederick
                    Verisopht, Sir Mulberry Hawke, and their friends; the scene of the hero's
                    luncheon at a restaurant and the dreadful description of the mirrors and other
                    splendours would not have been written. It is a very little thing to forgive to
                    him whom we have to thank for—well, not perhaps for the “housefull of friends”
                    for the gift of whom a stranger, often quoted, once blessed him in the street;
                    we may not wish for Mr. Feeder, or Major Bagstock, or Mrs. Chick, or Mrs.
                    Pipchin, or Mr. Augustus Moddle, or Mr. F.'s aunt, or Mr. Wopsle, or Mr.
                    Pumblechook, as an inmate of our homes. Lack of knowledge of the polite world
                    is, I say, a very little thing to forgive to him whom we thank most chiefly for
                    showing us these interesting people just named as inmates of the comedy homes that are not ours. We thank him because
                    they are comedy homes, and could not be ours or any man's; that is, we thank him
                    for his admirable art.
            
            
            
                SWINBURNE'S LYRICAL POETRY
                The makers of epigrams, of phrases, of pages—of all more or less brief
                    judgements—assuredly waste their time when they sum up any one of all mankind;
                    and how do they squander it when their matter is a poet! They may hardly
                    describe him; nor shall any student's care, or psychologist's formula, or
                    man?of?letters' summary, or wit's sentence define him. Definitions, because they
                    must not be inexact or incomprehensive, sweep too wide, and the poet is not held
                    within them; and out of the mere describer's range and capture he may escape by
                    as many doors as there are outlets from a forest. But much ready?made platitude
                    brings about the world's guesses at a poet, and false and flat thought lies
                    behind its epigrams. It is not long since the general guess?work assigned
                    melancholy, without authority, to a poet lately deceased. Real poets, it was said, are unhappy, and this was one
                    exceptionally real. How unhappy must he, then, certainly have been! And the
                    blessed Blake himself was incidentally cited as one of the company of depression
                    and despair! It is, perhaps, a liking for symmetry that prompts these futile
                    syllogisms; perhaps, also, it is the fear of human mystery. The biographer used
                    to see “the finger of God” pat in the history of a man; he insists now that he
                    shall at any rate see the finger of a law, or rather of a rule, a custom, a
                    generality. Law I will not call it; there is no intelligible law that, for
                    example, a true poet should be an unhappy man; but the observer thinks he has
                    noticed a custom or habit to that effect, and Blake, who lived and died in
                    bliss, is named at ignorant random, rather than that an example of the custom
                    should be lost.
                But it is not only such a platitude of observation, such a cheap generality, that
                    is silenced in the presence of the poet whose name is at the head of these
                    pages. For if ever Nature showed us a poet in whom our phrases, and the judgements they record, should be denied,
                    defeated, and confused, Swinburne is he. We predicate of a poet a great
                    sincerity, a great imagination, a great passion, a great intellect; these are
                    the master qualities, and yet we are compelled to see here—if we would not
                    wilfully be blind or blindfold—a poet, yes, a true poet, with a perfervid fancy
                    rather than an imagination, a poet with puny passions, a poet with no more than
                    the momentary and impulsive sincerity of an infirm soul, a poet with small
                    intellect—and thrice a poet.
                And, assuredly, if the creative arts are duly humbled in the universal
                    contemplation of Nature, if they are accused, if they are weighed, if they are
                    found wanting; if they are excused by nothing but our intimate human sympathy
                    with dear and interesting imperfection; if poetry stands outdone by the passion
                    and experience of an inarticulate soul, and painting by the splendour of the
                    day, and building by the forest and the cloud, there is another art also that
                    has to be humiliated, and this is the art and science of criticism, confounded
                    by its contemplation of such a poet. Poor
                    little art of examination and formula! The miracle of day and night and
                    immortality are needed to rebuke the nobler arts; but our art, the critic's,
                    mine to?day, is brought to book, and its heart is broken, and its sincerity
                    disgraced, by the paradoxes of the truth. Not in the heavens nor in the
                    sub?celestial landscape does this minor art find its refutation, but in the
                    puzzle between a man and his gift; and in part the man is ignoble and leads us
                    by distasteful paths, and compels us to a reluctant work of literary detection.
                    Useful is the critical spirit, but it loses heart when (to take a very definite
                    instance) it has to ask what literary sincerity—what value for art and
                    letters—lived in Swinburne, who hailed a certain old friend, in a dedication, as
                    “poet and painter” when he was pleased with him, and declared him “poetaster and
                    dauber” when something in that dead man's posthumous autobiography offended his
                    own self?love; when, I say, criticism finds itself called upon, amid its
                    admiration, to do such scavenger work, it loses heart as well as the clue, and
                    would gladly go out into the free air of
                    greater arts, and, with them, take exterior Nature's nobler reprobation.
                I have to cite this instance of a change of mind, or of terms and titles, in
                    Swinburne's estimate of art and letters, because it is all?important to my
                    argument. It is a change he makes in published print, and, therefore, no private
                    matter. And I cite it, not as a sign of moral fault, with which I have no
                    business, but as a sign of a most significant literary
                    insensibility—insensibility, whether to the quality of a poetaster when he wrote
                    “poet,” or to that of a poet when he wrote “poetaster,” is of no matter.
                Rather than justify the things I have ventured to affirm as to Swinburne's little
                    intellect, and paltry degree of sincerity, and rachitic passion, and tumid
                    fancy—judgement?confounding things to predicate of a poet—I turn to the happier
                    task of praise. A vivid writer of English was he, and would have been one of the
                    recurring renewers of our often?renewed and incomparable language, had his words
                    not become habitual to himself, so that they quickly lost the light, the breeze,
                    the breath; one whose fondness for beauty
                    deserved the serious name of love; one whom beauty at times favoured and filled
                    so visibly, by such obvious visits and possessions, favours so manifest, that
                    inevitably we forget we are speaking fictions and allegories, and imagine her a
                    visiting power exterior to her poet; a man, moreover, of a less, not more, than
                    manly receptiveness and appreciation, so that he was entirely and easily
                    possessed by admirations. Less than manly we must call his extraordinary
                    recklessness of appreciation; it is, as it were, ideally feminine; it is
                    possible, however, that no woman has yet been capable of so entire an emotional
                    impulse and impetus; more than manly it might have been but for the lack of a
                    responsible intellect in that impulse; had it possessed such an intellectual
                    sanction, Swinburne's admiration of Victor Hugo, Mazzini, Dickens, Baudelaire,
                    and Théophile Gautier might have added one to the great generosities of the
                    world.
                We are inclined to complain of such an objection to Swinburne's poetry as was
                    prevalent at his earlier appearance and may be
                    found in criticisms of the time, before the later fashion of praise set in—the
                    obvious objection that it was as indigent in thought as affluent in words; for,
                    though a truth, it is an inadequate truth. It might be affirmed of many a
                    verse?writer of not unusual talent and insignificance, whose affluence of words
                    was inselective and merely abundant, and whose poverty of thought was something
                    less than a national disaster. Swinburne's failure of intellect was, in the
                    fullest and most serious sense, a national disaster, and his instinct for words
                    was a national surprise. It is in their beauty that Swinburne's art finds its
                    absolution from the obligations of meaning, according to the vulgar judgement;
                    and we can hardly wonder.
                I wish it were not customary to write of one art in the terms of another, and I
                    use the words “music” and “musical” under protest, because the world has been so
                    delighted to call any verse pleasant to the ear “musical,” that it has not
                    supplied us with another and more specialised and appropriate word. Swinburne is
                    a complete master of the rhythm and rhyme, the time and accent, the pause,
                        the balance, the flow of vowel and clash of
                    consonant, that make the “music” for which verse is popular and prized. We need
                    not complain that it is for the tune rather than for the melody—if we must use
                    those alien terms—that he is chiefly admired, and even for the jingle rather
                    than for the tune: he gave his readers all three, and all three in perfection.
                    Nineteen out of twenty who take pleasure in this art of his will quote you first 
                        When the hounds of Spring are on winter's traces
                        The Mother of months, in meadow and plain,
                     and the rest of the buoyant familiar lines. I confess there is something
                    too obvious, insistent, emphatic, too dapper, to give me more than a slight
                    pleasure; but it is possible that I am prejudiced by a dislike of English
                    anapæsts (I am aware that the classic terms are not really applicable to our
                    English metres, but the reader will underhand that I mean the metre of the lines
                    just quoted.) I do not find these anapæsts in the Elizabethan or in the
                    seventeenth century poets, or most rarely. They were dear to the eighteenth
                    century, and, much more than the heroic couplet, are the distinctive metre of that age. They swagger—or,
                    worse, they strut—in its lighter verse, from its first year to its last.
                    Swinburne's anapæsts are far too delicate for swagger or strut; but for all
                    their dance, all their spring, all their flight, all their flutter, we are
                    compelled to perceive that, as it were, they perform. I love to see
                    English poetry move to many measures, to many numbers, but chiefly with the
                    simple iambic and the simple trochaic foot. Those two are enough for the
                    infinite variety, the epic, the drama, the lyric, of our poetry. It is,
                    accordingly, in these old traditional and proved metres that Swinburne's music
                    seems to me most worthy, most controlled, and most lovely. There is
                    his best dignity, and therefore his best beauty. For even beauty is not to be
                    thrust upon us; she is not to solicit us or offer herself thus to the first
                    comer; and in the most admired of those flying lyrics she is thus immoderately
                    lavish of herself. “He lays himself out,” wrote Francis Thompson in an anonymous
                    criticism, “to delight and seduce. The great poets entice by a glorious accident
                    ... but allurement, in Mr. Swinburne's poetry,
                    is the alpha and omega.” This is true of all that he has written, but it is
                    true, in a more fatal sense, of these famous tunes of his “music.” Nay, delicate
                    as they are, we are convinced that it is the less delicate ear that most surely
                    takes much pleasure in them, the dull ear that chiefly they delight.
                Compare with such luxurious canterings the graver movement of this “Vision of
                    Spring in Winter”: 
                        Sunrise it sees not, neither set of star,
                        Large nightfall, nor imperial plenilune,
                        Nor strong sweet shape of the full?breasted noon;
                        But where the silver?sandalled shadows are,
                        Too soft for arrows of the sun to mar,
                        Moves with the mild gait of an ungrown moon.
                     Even more valuable than this exquisite rhymed stanza is the blank verse
                    which Swinburne released into new energies, new liberties, and new movements.
                    Milton, it need hardly be said, is the master of those who know how to place and
                    displace the stress and accent of the English heroic line in epic poetry. His
                    most majestic hand undid the mechanical bonds of the national line and made it
                    obey the unwritten laws of his genius. His blank verse marches, pauses, lingers,
                        and charges. It feels the strain, it
                    yields, it resists; it is all?expressive. But if the practice of some of the
                    poets succeeding him had tended to make it rigid and tame again, Swinburne was a
                    new liberator. He writes, when he ought, with a finely appropriate regularity,
                    as in the lovely line on the forest glades 
                        That fear the faun's and know the dryad's foot,
                     in which the rule is completely kept, every step of the five stepping from
                    the unaccented place to the accented without a tremor. (I must again protest
                    that I use the word “accent” in a sense that has come to be adapted to English
                    prosody, because it is so used by all writers on English metre, and is therefore
                    understood by the reader, but I think “stress” the better word.) But having
                    written this perfect English?iambic line so wonderfully fit for the sensitive
                    quiet of the woods, he turns the page to the onslaught of such lines—heroic
                    lines with a difference—as report the short?breathed messenger's reply to
                    Althea's question by whose hands the boar of Calydon had died: 
                        A maiden's and a prophet's and thy son's.
                     It is lamentable that in his latest blank
                    verse Swinburne should have made a trick and a manner of that most energetic
                    device of his by which he leads the line at a rush from the first syllable to
                    the tenth, and on to the first of the line succeeding, with a great recoil to
                    follow, as though a rider brought a horse to his haunches. It is in the same
                    boar hunt: 
                        And fiery with invasive eyes,
                        And bristling with intolerable hair,
                        Plunged;—
                    
                Sometimes we may be troubled with a misgiving that Swinburne's fine narrative, as
                    well as his descriptive writing of other kinds, has a counterpart in the
                    programme?music of some now by?gone composers. It is even too descriptive, too
                    imitative of things, and seems to out?run the province of words, somewhat as
                    that did the province of notes. But, though this hunting, and checking, and
                    floating, and flying in metre may be to strain the arts of prosody and diction,
                    with how masterly a hand is the straining accomplished! The spear, the arrow,
                    the attack, the charge, the footfall, the pinion, nay, the very stepping of the
                    moon, the walk of the wind, are mimicked in
                    this enchanting verse. Like to programme?music we must call it, but I wish the
                    concert?platform had ever justified this slight perversion of aim, this
                    excess—almost corruption—of one kind of skill, thus miraculously well.
                Now, if Swinburne's exceptional faculty of diction led him to immoderate
                    expressiveness, to immodest sweetness, to a jugglery, and prestidigitation, and
                    conjuring of words, to transformations and transmutations of sound—if, I say,
                    his extraordinary gift of diction brought him to this exaggeration of the
                    manner, what a part does it not play in the matter of his poetry! So overweening
                    a place does it take in this man's art that I believe the words to hold and use
                    his meaning, rather than the meaning to compass and grasp and use the word. I
                    believe that Swinburne's thoughts have their source, their home, their origin,
                    their authority and mission in those two places—his own vocabulary and the
                    passion of other men. This is a grave charge.
                First, then, in regard to the passion of other men. I have given to his own
                    emotion the puniest name I could find for it; I
                    have no nobler name for his intellect. But other men had thoughts, other men had
                    passions; political, sexual, natural, noble, vile, ideal, gross, rebellious,
                    agonising, imperial, republican, cruel, compassionate; and with these he fed his
                    verses. Upon these and their life he sustained, he fattened, he enriched his
                    poetry. Mazzini in Italy, Gautier and Baudelaire in France, Shelley in England,
                    made for him a base of passionate and intellectual supplies. With them he kept
                    the all?necessary line of communication. We cease, as we see their active hearts
                    possess his active art, to think a question as to his sincerity seriously worth
                    asking; what sincerity he has is so absorbed in the one excited act of
                    receptivity. That, indeed, he performs with all the will, all the precipitation,
                    all the rush, all the surrender, all the wholehearted weakness of his
                    subservient and impetuous nature. I have not named the Greeks, nor the English
                    Bible, nor Milton, as his inspirers. These he would claim; they are not his. He
                    received too partial, too fragmentary, too arbitrary an inheritance of the
                        Greek spirit, too illusory an idea of
                    Milton, of the English Bible little more than a tone;—this poet of eager, open
                    capacity, this poet who is little more, intellectually, than a too?ready,
                    too?vacant capacity, for those three august seventies has not room enough.
                Charged, then, with other men's purposes—this man's Italian patriotism; this
                    man's love of sin (by that name, for sin has been denied, as a fiction, but
                    Swinburne, following Baudelaire, acknowledges it to love it); this man's despite
                    against the Third Empire or what not; this man's cry for a political liberty
                    granted or gained long ago—a cry grown vain; this man's contempt for the
                    Boers—nay, was it so much as a man, with a man's evil to answer for, that
                    furnished him here; was it not rather that less guilty judge, the crowd?—this
                    man's—nay, this boy's—erotic sickness, or his cruelty—charged with all these,
                    Swinburne's poetry is primed; it explodes with thunder and fire. But such
                    sharing is somewhat too familiar for dignity; such community of goods parodies
                    the Franciscans. As one friar goes darned for another's rending, having no property in cassock or cowl, so does many a
                    poet, not in humility, but in a paradox of pride, boast of the past of others.
                    And yet one might rather choose to make use of one's fellow?men's old shoes than
                    to put their old secrets to usufruct, and dress poetry in a motley of shed
                    passions, twice corrupt. Promiscuity of love we have heard of; Pope was accused,
                    by Lord Hervey's indignation and wit, of promiscuity of hatred, and of
                    scattering his disfavours in the stews of an indiscriminate malignity; and here
                    is another promiscuity—that of memories, and of a licence partaken.
                But by the unanimous poets' splendid love of the landscape and the skies, by this
                    also was Swinburne possessed, and in this he triumphed. By this, indeed, he
                    profited; here he joined an innumerable company of that heavenly host of earth.
                    Let us acknowledge then his honourable alacrity here, his quick fellowship, his
                    agile adoption, and his filial tenderness—nay, his fraternal union with his
                    poets. No tourist's admiration for all things French, no tourist's politics in
                    Italy—and Swinburne's French and Italian admirations have the tourist manner of enthusiasm—prompts him here. Here he
                    aspires to brotherhood with the supreme poets of supreme England, with the
                    sixteenth century, the seventeenth, and the nineteenth, the impassioned
                    centuries of song. Happy is he to be admitted among these, happy is he to merit
                    by his wonderful voice to sing their raptures. Here is no humiliation in
                    ready?made lendings; their ecstasy becomes him. He is glorious with them, and we
                    can imagine this benign and indulgent Nature confounding together the sons she
                    embraces, and making her poets—the primary and the secondary, the greater and
                    the lesser—all equals in her arms. Let us see him in that company where he looks
                    noble amongst the noble; let us not look upon him in the company of the ignoble,
                    where he looks ignobler still, being servile to them; let us look upon him with
                    the lyrical Shakespeare, with Vaughan, Blake, Wordsworth, Patmore, Meredith; not
                    with Baudelaire and Gautier; with the poets of the forest and the sun, and not
                    with those of the alcove. We can make peace with him for love of them; we can
                    imagine them 
                        thank? ful
                        thankful
                     to him who, poor and perverse in thought in so many pages, could yet
                    join them in such a song as this: 
                        And her heart sprang in Iseult, and she drew
                        With all her spirit and life the sunrise through,
                        And through her lips the keen triumphant air
                        Sea?scented, sweeter than land?roses were,
                        And through her eyes the whole rejoicing east
                        Sun?satisfied, and all the heaven at feast
                        Spread for the morning; and the imperious mirth
                        Of wind and light that moved upon the earth,
                        Making the spring, and all the fruitful might
                        And strong regeneration of delight
                        That swells the seedling leaf and sapling man.
                     He, nevertheless, who was able, in high company, to hail the sea with such
                    fine verse, was not ashamed, in low company, to sing the famous absurdities
                    about “the lilies and languors of virtue and the roses and raptures of vice,”
                    with many and many a passage of like character. I think it more generous, seeing
                    I have differed so much from the Nineteenth Century's chorus of excessive
                    praise, to quote little from the vacant, the paltry, the silly—no word is so fit
                    as that last little word—among his pages. Therefore, I have justified my praise,
                    but not my blame. It is for the reader to turn
                    to the justifying pages: to “A Song of Italy,” “Les Noyades,” “Hermaphroditus,”
                    “Satia te Sanguine,” “Kissing her Hair,” “An Interlude,” “In a Garden,” or such
                    a stanza as the one beginning 
                        
                            O thought illimitable and infinite heart
                            Whose blood is life in limbs indissolute
                            That all keep heartless thine invisible part
                            And inextirpable thy viewless root
                            Whence all sweet shafts of green and each thy dart
                            Of sharpening leaf and bud resundering shoot.
                        
                     It is for the reader who has preserved rectitude of intellect, sincerity of
                    heart, dignity of nerves, unhurried thoughts, an unexcited heart, and an ardour
                    for poetry, to judge between such poems and an authentic passion, between such
                    poems and truth, I will add between such poems and beauty.
                Imagery is a great part of poetry; but out, alas! vocabulary has here too the
                    upper hand. For in what is still sometimes called the magnificent chorus in
                    “Atalanta” the words have swallowed not the thought only but the imagery. The
                    poet's grievance is that the pleasant streams flow into the sea. What would he
                    have? The streams turned loose all over the
                    unfortunate country? There is, it is true, the river Mole in Surrey. But I am
                    not sure that some foolish imagery against the peace of the burrowing river
                    might not be due from a poet of facility. I am not censuring any insincerity of
                    thought; I am complaining of the insincerity of a paltry, shaky, and unvisionary
                    image.
                Having had recourse to the passion of stronger minds for his provision of
                    emotions, Swinburne had direct recourse to his own vocabulary as a kind of
                    “safe” wherein he stored what he needed for a song. Claudius stole the precious
                    diadem of the kingdom from a shelf and put it in his pocket; Swinburne took from
                    the shelf of literature—took with what art, what touch, what cunning, what
                    complete skill!—the treasure of the language, and put it in his pocket.
                He is urgent with his booty of words, for he has no other treasure. Into his
                    pocket he thrusts a hand groping for hatred, and draws forth “blood” or
                    “Hell”—generally “Hell,” for I have counted many “Hells” in a quite short poem.
                    In search of wrath he takes hold of “fire”;
                    anxious for wildness he takes “foam,” for sweetness he brings out “flower,”"
                    much linked, so that “flower?soft” has almost become his, and not Shakespeare's.
                    For in that compound he labours to exaggerate Shakespeare, and by his insistence
                    and iteration goes about to spoil for us the “flower?soft hands” of Cleopatra's
                    rudder?maiden; but he shall not spoil Shakespeare's phrase for us. And behold,
                    in all this fundamental fumbling Swinburne's critics saw only a “mannerism,” if
                    they saw even thus much offence.
                One of the chief pocket?words was “Liberty.” O Liberty! what verse is committed
                    in thy name! Or, to cite Madame Roland more accurately, O Liberty, how have they
                    “run” thee!
                Who, it has been well asked by a citizen of a modern free country, is thoroughly
                    free except a fish? Et encore—even the “silent
                    and footless herds” may have more inter?accommodation than we are aware. But in
                    the pocket of the secondary poet how easy and how ready a word is this, a word
                    implying old and true heroisms, but significant
                    here of an excitable poet's economies. Yes, economies of thought and passion.
                    This poet, who is conspicuously the poet of excess, is in deeper truth the poet
                    of penury and defect.
                And here is a pocket?word which might have astonished us had we not known how
                    little anyway it signified. It occurs in something customary about Italy: 
                        Hearest thou,
                        Italia? Tho' deaf sloth hath sealed thine ears,
                        The world has heard thy children—and God hears.
                     Was ever thought so pouched, so produced, so surely a handful of loot, as
                    the last thought of this verse?
                What, finally, is his influence upon the language he has ransacked? A temporary
                    laying?waste, undoubtedly. That is, the contemporary use of his vocabulary is
                    spoilt, his beautiful words are wasted, spent, squandered, gaspillés. The contemporary use—I will not say the
                    future use, for no critic should prophesy. But the past he has not been able to
                    violate. He has had no power to rob of their freshness the sixteenth?century
                    flower, the seventeenth?century fruit, or by
                    his violence to shake from either a drop of their dews.
                At the outset I warned the judges and the pronouncers of sentences how this poet,
                    with other poets of quite different character, would escape their summaries, and
                    he has indeed refuted that maxim which I had learned at illustrious knees, “You
                    may not dissociate the matter and manner of any of the greatest poets; the two
                    are so fused by integrity of fire, whether in tragedy or epic or in the simplest
                    song, that the sundering is the vainest task of criticism.” But I cannot read
                    Swinburne and not be compelled to divide his secondhand and enfeebled and
                    excited matter from the successful art of his word. Of that word Francis
                    Thompson has said again, “It imposes a law on the sense.” Therefore, he too
                    perceived that fatal division. Is, then, the wisdom of the maxim confounded? Or
                    is Swinburne's a “single and excepted case”? Excepted by a thousand degrees of
                    talent from any generality fitting the obviously lesser poets, but, possibly,
                    also excepted by an essential inferiority from this great maxim fitting only the
                    greatest?
            
            
            
                CHARLOTTE AND EMILY BRONTË
                THE controversy here is with those who admire Charlotte Brontë
                    throughout her career. She altered greatly. She did, in fact, inherit a manner
                    of English that had been strained beyond restoration, fatigued beyond recovery,
                    by the “corrupt following” of Gibbon; and there was within her a sense of
                    propriety that caused her to conform. Straitened and serious elder daughter of
                    her time, she kept the house of literature. She practised those verbs, to
                    evince, to reside, to intimate, to peruse. She wrote “communicating instruction”
                    for teaching; “an extensive and eligible connexion”; “a small competency”; “an
                    establishment on the Continent”; “It operated as a barrier to further
                    intercourse”; and of a child (with a singular unfitness with childhood) “For the
                    toys he possesses he seems to have contracted a partiality amounting to 
                        affec? tion
                        affection
                    .” I have been already reproached for a word on Gibbon written by way
                    of parenthesis in the course of an appreciation of some other author. Let me,
                    therefore, repeat that I am writing of the corrupt following of that apostle and
                    not of his own style. Gibbon's grammar is frequently weak, but the corrupt
                    followers have something worse than poor grammar. Gibbon set the fashion of “the
                    latter” and “the former.” Our literature was for at least half a century strewn
                    with the wreckage of Gibbon. “After suppressing a competitor who had assumed the
                    purple at Mentz, he refused to gratify his troops with the plunder of the
                    rebellious city,” writes the great historian. When Mr. Micawber confesses
                    “gratifying emotions of no common description” he conforms to a lofty and a
                    distant Gibbon. So does Mr. Pecksniff when he says of the copper?founder's
                    daughter that she “has shed a vision on my path refulgent in its nature.” And
                    when an author, in a work on “The Divine Comedy,” recently told us that Paolo
                    and Francesca were to receive from Dante “such alleviation as circumstances
                        would allow,” that also is a shattered, a
                    waste Gibbon, a waif of Gibbon. For Johnson less than Gibbon inflated the
                    English our fathers inherited; because Johnson did not habitually or often use
                    imagery, whereas Gibbon did use habitual imagery, and such use is what deprives
                    a language of elasticity, and leaves it either rigid or languid, oftener
                    languid. Encumbered by this drift and refuse of English, Charlotte Brontë yet
                    achieved the miracle of her vocabulary. It is less wonderful that she should
                    have appeared out of such a parsonage than that she should have arisen out of
                    such a language.
                A re?reading of her works is always a new amazing of her reader who turns back to
                    review the harvest of her English. It must have been with rapture that she
                    claimed her own simplicity. And with what a moderation, how temperately, and how
                    seldom she used her mastery! To the last she has an occasional attachment to her
                    bonds; for she was not only fire and air. In one passage of her life she may
                    remind us of the little colourless and thrifty hen?bird that Lowell watched
                        nest?building with her mate, and cutting
                    short the flutterings and billings wherewith he would joyously interrupt the
                    business; Charlotte's nesting bird was a clergyman. He came, lately affianced,
                    for a week's visit to her parsonage, and she wrote to her friend before his
                    arrival: “My little plans have been disarranged by an intimation that Mr.— is
                    coming on Monday”; and afterwards, in reference to her sewing, “he hindered me
                    for a full week.”
                In alternate pages Villette is a book of spirit and fire, and a
                    novel of illiberal rancour, of ungenerous, uneducated anger, ungentle, ignoble.
                    In order to forgive its offences, we have to remember in its author's favour not
                    her pure style set free, not her splendour in literature, but rather the
                    immeasurable sorrow of her life. To read of that sorrow again is to open once
                    more a wound which most men perhaps, certainly most women, received into their
                    hearts in childhood. For the Life of Charlotte Brontë is one of the first books
                    of biography put into the hands of a child, to whom Jane Eyre is
                    allowed only in passages. We are young when we first hear in what narrow beds “the three are laid”—the two sisters and
                    the brother—and in what a bed of living insufferable memories the one left lay
                    alone, reviewing the hours of their death—alone in the sealed house that was
                    only less narrow than their graves. The rich may set apart and dedicate a room,
                    the poor change their street, but Charlotte Brontë, in the close captivity of
                    the fortunes of mediocrity, rested in the chair that had been her dying
                    sister's, and held her melancholy bridals in the dining room that had been the
                    scene of terrible and reluctant death.
                But closer than the conscious house was the conscious mind. Locked with intricate
                    wards within the unrelaxing and unlapsing thoughts of this lonely sister, dwelt
                    a sorrow inconsolable. It is well for the perpetual fellowship of mankind that
                    no child should read this life and not take therefrom a perdurable scar, albeit
                    her heart was somewhat frigid towards childhood, and she died before her
                    motherhood could be born.
                Mistress of some of the best prose of her century, Charlotte Brontë was subject
                    to a Lewes, a Chorley, a Miss Martineau: that
                    is, she suffered what in Italian is called soggezione in their presence. When she had met six minor
                    contemporary writers—by?products of literature—at dinner, she had a headache and
                    a sleepless night. She writes to her friend that these contributors to the
                    quarterly press are greatly feared in literary London, and there is in her
                    letter a sense of tremor and exhaustion. And what nights did the heads of the
                    critics undergo after the meeting? Lewes, whose own romances are all condoned,
                    all forgiven by time and oblivion, who gave her lessons, who told her to study
                    Jane Austen? The others, whose reviews doubtless did their proportionate part in
                    still further hunting and harrying the tired English of their day? And before
                    Harriet Martineau she bore herself reverently. Harriet Martineau, albeit a woman
                    of masculine understanding (we may imagine we hear her contemporaries give her
                    the title), could not thread her way safely in and out of two or three
                    negatives, but wrote—about this very Charlotte Brontë: “I did not consider the
                    book a coarse one, though I could not answer
                    for it that there were no traits which, on a second leisurely reading, I might
                    not dislike.” Mrs. Gaskell quotes the passage with no consciousness of anything
                    amiss.
                As for Lewes's vanished lesson upon the methods of Jane Austen, it served one
                    only sufficient purpose. Itself is not quoted by anyone alive, but Charlotte
                    Brontë's rejoinder adds one to our little treasury of her incomparable pages. If
                    they were twenty, they are twenty?one by the addition of this, written in a
                    long?neglected letter and saved for us by Mr. Shorter's research, for I believe
                    his is the only record: “What sees keenly, speaks aptly, moves flexibly, it
                    suits her to study; but what throbs fast and full, though hidden, what blood
                    rushes through, what is the unseen seat of life and the sentient target of
                    death—that Miss Austen ignores.”
                When the author of Jane Eyre faltered before six authors, more or
                    less, at dinner in London, was it the writer of her second?class English who was
                    shy? or was it the author of the passages here to follow?—and therefore one for
                    whom the national tongue was much the better?
                    There can be little doubt. The Charlotte Brontë who used the English of a world
                    long corrupted by “one good custom”—the good custom of Gibbon's Latinity grown
                    fatally popular—could at any time hold up her head amongst her reviewers; for
                    her there was no sensitive interior solitude in that society. She who cowered
                    was the Charlotte who made Rochester recall “the simple yet sagacious grace” of
                    Jane's first smile; she who wrote: “I looked at my love; it shivered in my heart
                    like a suffering child in a cold cradle”; who wrote: “To see what a heavy lid
                    day slowly lifted, what a wan glance she flung upon the hills, you would have
                    thought the sun's fire quenched in last night's floods.” This new genius was
                    solitary and afraid, and touched to the quick by the eyes and voice of judges.
                    In her worse style there was no “quick.” Latin?English, whether scholarly or
                    unscholarly, is the mediate tongue. An unscholarly Latin?English is proof
                    against the world. The scholarly Latin?English wherefrom it is disastrously
                    derived is, in its own nobler measure, a defence against more august assaults
                    than those of criticism. In the strength of it
                    did Johnson hold parley with his profounder sorrows—hold parley (by his phrase),
                    make terms (by his definition), give them at last lodging and entertainment
                    after sentence and treaty.
                And the meaner office of protection against reviewers and the world was doubtless
                    done by the meaner Latinity. The author of the phrase “The child contracted a
                    partiality for his toys” had no need to fear any authors she might meet at
                    dinner. Against Charlotte Brontë's sorrows her worse manner of English never
                    stands for a moment. Those vain phrases fall from before her face and her bared
                    heart. To the heart, to the heart she took the shafts of her griefs. She tells
                    them therefore as she suffered them, vitally and mortally. “A great change
                    approached. Affliction came in that shape which to anticipate is dread; to look
                    back on, grief. My sister Emily first declined. Never in all her life had she
                    lingered over any task that lay before her, and she did not linger now. She made
                    haste to leave us.” “I remembered where the three were laid—in what narrow, dark
                    dwellings.” “Do you know this place? No, you
                    never saw it; but you recognize the nature of these trees, this foliage—the
                    cypress, the willow, the yew. Stone crosses like these are not unfamiliar to
                    you, nor are these dim garlands of everlasting flowers. Here is the place.”
                    “Then the watcher approaches the patient's pillow, and sees a new and strange
                    moulding of the familiar features, feels at once that the insufferable moment
                    draws nigh.” In the same passage comes another single word of genius, “the sound
                    that so wastes our strength.” And, fine as “wastes,” is the “wronged” of another
                    sentence—“some wronged and fettered wild beast or bird.”
                It is easy to gather such words, more difficult to separate the best from such a
                    mingled page as that on “Imagination”: “A spirit, softer and better than human
                    reason, had descended with quiet flight to the waste”; and “My hunger has this
                    good angel appeased with food sweet and strange”; and “This daughter of Heaven
                    remembered me to?night; she saw me weep, and she came with comfort; ‘Sleep,’ she
                    said, ‘sleep sweetly—I gild thy dreams.’“ “Was
                    this feeling dead? I do not know, but it was buried. Sometimes I thought the
                    tomb unquiet.”
                Perhaps the most “eloquent” pages are unluckily those wherein we miss the
                    friction—friction of water to the oar, friction of air to the pinion—friction
                    that sensibly proves the use, the buoyancy, the act of language. Sometimes an
                    easy eloquence resembles the easy labours of the daughters of Danaus. To draw
                    water in a sieve is an easy art, rapid and relaxed.
                But no laxity is ever, I think, to be found in her brief passages of landscape.
                    “The keen, still cold of the morning was succeeded, later in the day, by a sharp
                    breathing from the Russian wastes; the cold zone sighed over the temperate zone
                    and froze it fast.” “Not till the destroying angel of tempest had achieved his
                    perfect work would he fold the wings whose waft was thunder, the tremor of whose
                    plumes was storm.” “The night is not calm: the equinox still struggles in its
                    storms. The wild rains of the day are abated: the great single cloud disappears
                    and rolls away from Heaven, not passing and leaving a sea all 
                        sap? phire
                        sapphire
                    , but tossed buoyant before a continued, long?sounding, high?rushing
                    moonlight tempest.... No Endymion will watch for his goddess to?night: there are
                    no flocks on the mountains.” See, too, this ocean: “The sway of the whole Great
                    Deep above a herd of whales rushing through the livid and liquid thunder down
                    from the frozen zone.” And this promise of the visionary Shirley: “I am to be
                    walking by myself on deck, rather late of an August evening, watching and being
                    watched by a full harvest moon: something is to rise white on the surface of the
                    sea, over which that moon mounts silent, and hangs glorious.... I think I hear
                    it cry with an articulate voice.... I show you an image fair as alabaster
                    emerging from the dim wave.”
                Charlotte Brontë knew well the experience of dreams. She seems to have undergone
                    the inevitable dream of mourners—the human dream of the Labyrinth, shall I call
                    it? the uncertain spiritual journey in search of the waiting and sequestered
                    dead, which is the obscure subject of the “Eurydice” of Coventry Patmore's Odes.
                    There is the lately dead, in exile, remote,
                    betrayed, foreign, indifferent, sad, forsaken by some vague malice or neglect,
                    sought by troubled love astray.
                In Charlotte Brontë's page there is an autumnal and tempestuous dream. “A
                    nameless experience that had the hue, the mien, the terror, the very tone of a
                    visitation from eternity.... Suffering brewed in temporal or calculable measure
                    tastes not as this suffering tasted.” Finally, is there any need to cite the
                    passage of Jane Eyre that contains the avowal, the vigil in the
                    garden? Those are not words to be forgotten. Some tell you that a fine style
                    will give you the memory of a scene and not of the recording words that are the
                    author's means. And others again would have the phrase to be remembered
                    foremost. Here, then, in Jane Eyre, are both memories equal. The
                    night is perceived, the phrase is an experience; both have their place in the
                    reader's irrevocable past. “Custom intervened between me and what I naturally
                    and inevitably loved.” “Jane, do you hear that nightingale singing in the wood?”
                    “A waft of wind came sweeping down the laurel walk, and trembled through the boughs of the chestnut; it wandered away
                    to an infinite distance.... The nightingale's voice was then the only voice of
                    the hour; in listening I again wept.”
                Whereas Charlotte Brontë walked, with exultation and enterprise, upon the road of
                    symbols, under the guidance of her own visiting genius, Emily seldom went out
                    upon those far avenues. She was one who practised little or no imagery. Her
                    style had the key of an inner prose which seems to leave imagery behind in the
                    way of approaches—the apparelled and arrayed approaches and ritual of
                    literature—and so to go further and to be admitted among simple realities and
                    antitypes.
                Charlotte Brontë also knew that simple goal, but she loved her imagery. In the
                    passage of Jane Eyre that tells of the return to Thornfield Hall,
                    in ruins by fire, she bespeaks her reader's romantic attention to an image which
                    in truth is not all golden. She has moments, on the other hand, of pure
                    narrative, whereof each word is such a key as I spoke of but now, and unlocks an
                    inner and an inner plain door of spiritual
                    realities. There is, perhaps, no author who, simply telling what happened, tells
                    it with so great a significance: “Jane, did you hear that nightingale singing in
                    the wood?” and “She made haste to leave us.” But her characteristic calling is
                    to images, those avenues and temples oracular, and to the vision of symbols.
                You may hear the poet of great imagery praised as a great mystic. Nevertheless,
                    although a great mystical poet makes images, he does not do so in his greatest
                    moments. He is a great mystic, because he has a full vision of the mystery of
                    realities, not because he has a clear invention of similitudes. 
                        Of many thousand kisses the poor last,
                     and 
                        Now with his love, now in the colde grave
                     are lines on the yonder side of imagery. So is this line also: 
                        Sad with the promise of a different sun,
                     and 
                        Piteous passion keen at having found,
                        After exceeding ill, a little good.
                     Shakespeare, Chaucer and Patmore yield us
                    these great examples. Imagery is for the time when, as in these lines, the shock
                    of feeling (which must needs pass, as the heart beats and pauses) is gone by: 
                        Thy heart with dead winged innocences filled,
                        Even as a nest with birds,
                        After the old ones by the hawk are killed.
                     I cite these last lines because of their imagery in a poem that without
                    them would be insupportably close to spiritual facts; and because it seems to
                    prove with what a yielding hand at play the poet of realities holds his symbols
                    for a while. A great writer is both a major and a minor mystic, in the self?same
                    poem; now suddenly close to his mystery (which is his greater moment) and anon
                    making it mysterious with imagery (which is the moment of his most beautiful
                    lines).
                The student passes delighted through the several courts of poetry, from the outer
                    to the inner, from riches to more imaginative riches, and from decoration to
                    more complex decoration; and prepares himself for the greater opulence of the
                    innermost chamber. But when he crosses the last
                    threshold he finds this mid?most sanctuary to be a hypæthral temple, and in its
                    custody and care a simple earth and a space of sky.
                Emily Brontë seems to have a nearly unparalleled unconsciousness of the delays,
                    the charms, the pauses and preparations of imagery. Her strength does not dally
                    with the parenthesis, and her simplicity is ignorant of those rites. Her lesser
                    work, therefore, is plain narrative, and her greater work is no more. On the
                    hither side—the daily side—of imagery she is still a strong and solitary writer;
                    on the yonder side she has written some of the most mysterious passages in all
                    plain prose. And with what direct and incommunicable art! “‘Let me alone, let me
                    alone,’ said Catherine. ‘If I've done wrong, I'm dying for it. You left me too
                    ... I forgive you. Forgive me!’ ‘It is hard to forgive, and to look at those
                    eyes and feel those wasted hands,’ he answered. ‘Kiss me again, and don't let me
                    see your eyes! I forgive what you have done to me. I love my murderer—but
                        yours! How can I?’ They were silent, their faces hid against
                    each other, and washed by each other's tears.”
                    “So much the worse for me that I am strong,” cries Heathcliff in the same scene.
                    “Do I want to live? What kind of living will it be when you—Oh God, would you
                    like to live with your soul in the grave?”
                Charlotte Brontë's noblest passages are her own speech or the speech of one like
                    herself acting the central part in the dreams and dramas of emotion that she had
                    kept from her girlhood—the unavowed custom of the ordinary girl by her so
                    splendidly avowed in a confidence that comprised the world. Emily had no such
                    confessions to publish. She contrived—but the word does not befit her singular
                    spirit of liberty, that knew nothing of stealth—to remove herself from the
                    world; as her person left no pen?portrait, so her “I” is not heard here. She
                    lends her voice in disguise to her men and women; the first narrator of her
                    great romance is a young man, the second a servant woman; this one or that among
                    the actors takes up the story, and her great words sound at times in paltry
                    mouths. It is then that for a moment her reader seems about to come into her immediate presence, but by a fiction
                    she denies herself to him. To a somewhat trivial girl (or a girl who would be
                    trivial in any other book, but Emily Brontë seems unable to create anything
                    consistently meagre or common)—to Isabella Linton she commits one of her most
                    memorable passages, and one which has the rare image—I had almost written the
                    only image, so rare is it: “His attention was roused, I saw, for his eyes rained
                    down tears among the ashes.... The clouded windows of hell flashed for a moment
                    towards me; the fiend which usually looked out was so dimmed and drowned.” But
                    in Heathcliff's own speech there is no veil or circumstance. “I'm too happy; and
                    yet I'm not happy enough. My soul's bliss kills my body, but does not satisfy
                    itself.” “I have to remind myself to breathe, and almost to remind my heart to
                    beat.” “Being alone, and conscious two yards of loose earth was the sole barrier
                    between us, I said to myself: ‘I'll have her in my arms again.’ If she be cold,
                    I'll think it is this north wind that chills me; and if she be motionless, it is
                    sleep.” What art, moreover, what knowledge,
                    what a fresh ear for the clash of repetition; what a chime in that phrase: “I
                    dreamt I was sleeping the last sleep by that sleeper, with my heart stopped, and
                    my cheek frozen against hers.”
                Emily Brontë was no student of books. It was not from among the fruits of any
                    other author's labour that she gathered these eminent words. But I think I have
                    found the suggestion of this action of Heathcliff's—the disinterment. Not in any
                    inspiring ancient Irish legend, as has been suggested, did Emily Brontë find her
                    incident; she found it (but she made, and did not find, its beauty) in a mere
                    costume romance of Bulwer Lytton, whom Charlotte Brontë, as we know, did not
                    admire. And Emily showed no sign at all of admiration when she did him so much
                    honour as to borrow the action of his studio?bravo.
                Heathcliff's love for Catherine's past childhood is one of the profound surprises
                    of this unparalleled book; it is to call her childish ghost—the ghost of the
                    little girl—when she has been a dead adult woman twenty years that the inhuman
                    lover opens the window of the house on the
                    Heights. Something is this that the reader knew not how to look for. Another
                    thing known to genius and beyond a reader's hope is the tempestuous purity of
                    those passions. This wild quality of purity has a counterpart in the brief
                    passages of nature that make the summers, the waters, the woods, and the windy
                    heights of that murderous story seem so sweet. The “beck” that was audible
                    beyond the hills after rain, the “heath on the top of Wuthering Heights”
                    whereon, in her dream of Heaven, Catherine, flung out by angry angels, awoke
                    sobbing for joy; the bird whose feathers she—delirious creature—plucks from the
                    pillow of her deathbed (“This—I should know it among a thousand—it's a
                    lapwing's. Bonny bird; wheeling over our heads in the middle of the moor. It
                    wanted to get to its nest, for the clouds had touched the swells and it felt
                    rain coming”); the only two white spots of snow left on all the moors, and the
                    brooks brim?full; the old apple?trees, the smell of stocks and wallflowers in
                    the brief summer, the few fir?trees by Catherine's window?bars, the early moon—I
                    know not where are 
                        land? scapes
                        landscapes
                     more exquisite and natural. And among the signs of death where is any
                    fresher than the window seen from the garden to be swinging open in the morning,
                    when Heathcliff lay within, dead and drenched with rain?
                None of these things are presented by images. Nor is that signal passage
                    wherewith the book comes to a close. Be it permitted to cite it here again. It
                    has taken its place, it is among the paragons of our literature. Our language
                    will not lapse or derogate while this prose stands for appeal: “I lingered ...
                    under that benign sky; watched the moths fluttering among the heath and
                    harebells, listened to the soft wind breathing through the grass, and wondered
                    how anyone could ever imagine unquiet slumbers for the sleepers in that quiet
                    earth.”
                Finally, of Emily Brontë's face the world holds only an obviously unskilled
                    reflection, and of her aspect no record worth having. Wild fugitive, she
                    vanished, she escaped, she broke away, exiled by the neglect of her
                    contemporaries, banished by their disrespect outlawed by their contempt,
                    dismissed by their indifference. And such an
                    one was she as might rather have pronounced upon these the sentence passed by
                    Coriolanus under sentence of expulsion; she might have driven the world from
                    before her face and cast it out from her presence as he condemned his Romans:
                        “I banish you.”
            
            
            
                CHARMIAN
                “SHE is not Cleopatra, but she is at least Charmian,” wrote Keats,
                    conscious that his damsel was not in the vanward of the pageant of ladies. One
                    may divine that he counted the ways wherein she was not Cleopatra, the touches
                    whereby she fell short of and differed from, nay, in which she mimicked, the
                    Queen.
                In like manner many of us have for some years past boasted of our appreciation of
                    the inferior beauty, the substitute, the waiting gentlewoman of corrupt or
                    corruptible heart; Keats confessed, but did not boast. It is a vaunt now, an
                    emulation, who shall discover her beauty, who shall discern her.
                She is most conspicuous in the atmosphere in smoke “effects,” in the “lurid,” the
                    “mystery”; such are the perfervid words. But let us take the natural and
                    authentic light as our symbol of Cleopatra, her sprightly port, her infinite
                    jest, her bluest vein, her variety, her laugh. “O Eastern star!”
                
                Men in cities look upward not much more than animals, and these—except the dog
                    when he bays the moon—look skyward not at all. The events of the sky do not come
                    and go for the citizens, do not visibly approach and withdraw, threaten and
                    pardon; they merely happen. And even when the sun so condescends as to face them
                    at the level of their own horizon (say from the western end of the Bayswater
                    Road), when he searches out the eyes that have neglected him all day, finds a
                    way between their narrowing lids, looks straight into their unwelcoming pupils,
                    explores the careful wrinkles, singles and numbers the dull hairs, even, I say,
                    to sudden sunset in our dim climate, the Londoner makes no reply; he would
                    rather look into puddles than into the pools of light among clouds.
                Yet the light is as characteristic of a country as is its landscape. So that I
                    would travel for the sake of a character of early morning, for a quality of
                    noonday, or a tone of afternoon, or an accident of moonrise, or a colour of
                    dusk, at least as far as for a mountain, a cathedral, rivers, or men. The light
                    is more important than what it illuminates.
                    When Mr. Tomkins—a person of Dickens's earliest invention—calls his
                    fellow?boarders from the breakfast?table to the window, and with emotion shows
                    them the effect of sunshine upon the left side of a neighbouring chimney?pot, he
                    is far from cutting the grotesque figure that the humourist intended to point
                    out to banter. I am not sure that the chimney?pot with the pure light upon it
                    was not more beautiful than a whole black Greek or a whole black Gothic building
                    in the adulterated light of a customary London day. Nor is the pleasure that
                    many writers, and a certain number of painters, tell us they owe to such
                    adulteration anything other than a sign of derogation—in a word, a pleasure in
                    the secondary thing.
                Are we the better artists for our preference of the waiting?woman? It is a
                    strange claim. The search for the beauty of the less?beautiful is a modern
                    enterprise, ingenious in its minor pranks, insolent in its greater. And its
                    chief ignobility is the love of marred, defiled, disordered, dulled, and
                    imperfect skies, the skies of cities.
                
                Some will tell us that the unveiled light is too clear or sharp for art. So much
                    the worse for art; but even on that plea the limitations of art are better
                    respected by natural mist, cloudy gloom of natural rain, natural twilight before
                    night, or natural twilight—Corot's—before day, than by the artificial dimness of
                    our unlovely towns. Those, too, who praise the “mystery” of smoke are praising
                    rather a mystification than a mystery; and must be unaware of the profounder
                    mysteries of light. Light is all mystery when you face the sun, and every
                    particle of the innumerable atmosphere carries its infinitesimal shadow.
                Moreover, it is only in some parts of the world that we should ask for even
                    natural veils. In California we may, not because the light is too luminous, but
                    because it is not tender. Clear and not tender in California, tender and not
                    clear in England; light in Italy and in Greece is both tender and clear.
                When one complains of the ill?luck of modern utilities, the sympathetic listener
                    is apt to agree, but to agree wrongly by denouncing the electric light as
                    something modern to be deplored. But the
                    electric light is the one success of the last century. It is never out of
                    harmony with natural things—villages, ancient streets of cities, where it makes
                    the most beautiful of all street?lighting, swung from house to opposite house in
                    Genoa or Rome. With no shock, except a shock of pleasure, does the judicious
                    traveller, entering some small sub?alpine hamlet, find the electric light,
                    fairly, sparingly spaced, slung from tree to tree over the little road, and note
                    it again in the frugal wine?shop, and solitary and clear over the church
                    portal.
                Yet, forsooth, if yielding to the suggestions of your restless hobby, you
                    denounce, in any company, the spoiling of your Italy, the hearer, calling up a
                    “mumping visnomy,” thinks he echoes your complaint by his sigh, “Ah, yes—the
                    electric light; you meet it everywhere now; so modern, so disenchanting.” It is,
                    on the contrary, enchanting. It is as natural as lightning. By all means let all
                    the waterfalls in all the Alps be “harnessed,” as the lamentation runs, if their
                    servitude gives us electric light. For thus the power of the waterfall kindles a lovely lamp. All this to be done by
                    the simple force of gravitation—the powerful fall of water. “Wonderful, all that
                    water coming down!” cried the tourist at Niagara, and the Irishman said, “Why
                    wouldn't it?” He recognised the simplicity of that power. It is a second?rate
                    passion—that for the waterfall, and often exacting in regard to visitors from
                    town. “I trudged unwillingly,” says Dr. Johnson, “and was not sorry to find it
                    dry.” It was very, very second?rate of an American admirer of scenery to name a
                    waterfall in the Yosemite Valley (and it bears the name to?day) the “Bridal
                    Veil.” His Indian predecessor had called it, because it was most audible in
                    menacing weather, “The Voice of the Evil Wind.” In fact, your cascade is dearer
                    to every sentimentalist than the sky. Standing near the folding?over place of
                    Niagara, at the top of the fall, I looked across the perpetual rainbow of the
                    foam, and saw the whole further sky deflowered by the formless, edgeless,
                    languid, abhorrent murk of smoke from the nearest town. Much rather would I see
                    that water put to use than the sky so outraged. As it is, only by picking one's way between cities can one walk under,
                    or as it were in, a pure sky. The horizon in Venice is thick and ochreous, and
                    no one cares; the sky of Milan is defiled all round. In England I must choose a
                    path alertly; and so does now and then a wary, fortunate, fastidious wind that
                    has so found his exact, uncharted way, between this smoke and that, as to clear
                    me a clean moonrise, and heavenly heavens.
                There was an ominous prophecy to Charmian. “You shall outlive the lady whom you
                    serve.” She has outlived her in every city in Europe; but only for the time of
                    setting straight her crown—the last servility. She could not live but by
                    comparison with the Queen.
            
            
            
                THE CENTURY OF MODERATION
                AFTER a long literary revolt—one of the recurrences of imperishable
                    Romance—against the eighteenth?century authors, a reaction was due, and it has
                    come about roundly. We are guided back to admiration of the measure and
                    moderation and shapeliness of the Augustan age. And indeed it is well enough
                    that we should compare—not necessarily check—some of our habits of thought and
                    verse by the mediocrity of thought and perfect propriety of diction of Pope's
                    best contemporaries. If this were all! But the eighteenth century was not
                    content with its sure and certain genius. Suddenly and repeatedly it aspired to
                    a “noble rage.” It is not to the wild light hearts of the seventeenth century
                    that we must look for extreme conceits and for extravagance, but to the later
                    age, to the faultless, to the frigid, dissatisfied with their own propriety.
                    There were straws, I confess, in the hair of
                    the older poets; the eighteenth century stuck straws in its periwig.
                That time—surpassing and correcting the century then just past in “taste”—was
                    resolved to make a low leg to no age, antique or modern, in the chapter of the
                    passions—nay, to show the way, to fire the nations. Addison taught himself, as
                    his hero “taught the doubtful battle,” “where to rage.” And in the later years
                    of the same literary century Johnson himself summoned the lapsed and alien and
                    reluctant fury. Take such a word as “madded”—“the madded land”; there indeed is
                    a word created for the noble rage, as the eighteenth century understood it. Look
                    you, Johnson himself could lodge the fury in his responsible breast: 
                        And dubious title shakes the madded land.
                    
                There is no author of that time of moderation and good sense who does not thus
                    more or less eat a crocodile. It is not necessary to go to the bad poets; we
                    need go no lower than the good. 
                        And gasping Furies thirst for blood in vain,
                     says Pope seriously (but the sense of burlesque never leaves the reader). Also 
                        There purple vengeance bath'd in gore retires.
                     In the only passage of the Dunciad meant to be poetic and not
                    ironic and spiteful, he has “the panting gales” of a garden he describes. Match
                    me such an absurdity among the “conceits” of the age preceding!
                A noble and ingenious author, so called by high authority but left anonymous,
                    pretends (it is always pretending with these people, never fine fiction or a
                    frank lie) that on the tomb of Virgil he had had a vision of that deceased poet: 
                        Crowned with eternal bays my ravished eyes
                        Beheld the poet's awful form arise.
                     Virgil tells the noble and ingenious one that if Pope will but write upon
                    some graver themes, 
                        Envy to black Cocytus shall retire
                        And howl with furies in tormenting fire.
                     “Genius,” says another authoritative writer in prose, “is caused by a
                    furious joy and pride of soul.”
                If, leaving the great names, we pass in review the worse poets we find, in Pope's
                        essay “On the Art of Sinking in Poetry,”
                    things like these, gathered from the grave writings of his contemporaries: 
                        In flaming heaps the raging ocean rolls,
                        Whose livid waves involve despairing souls;
                        The liquid burnings dreadful colours shew,
                        Some deeply red, and others faintly blue.
                     And a war?horse! 
                        His eye?balls burn, he wounds the smoking plain,
                        And knots of scarlet ribbon deck his mane.
                     And a demon! 
                        Provoking demons all restraint remove.
                     Here is more eighteenth?century “propriety”: 
                        The hills forget they're fixed, and in their fright
                        Cast off their weight, and ease themselves for flight.
                        The woods, with terror winged, out?fly the wind,
                        And leave the heavy, panting hills behind.
                     Again, from Nat Lee's Alexander the Great: 
                        When Glory, like the dazzling eagle, stood
                        Perched on my beaver in the Granic flood;
                        When Fortune's self my standard trembling bore,
                        And the pale Fates stood 'frighted on the shore.
                     Of these lines, with another couplet, Dr. Warburton said that they “contain
                    not only the most sublime but the most judicious imagery that poetry could
                    conceive or paint.” And here are lines from a
                    tragedy, for me anonymous: 
                        Should the fierce North, upon his frozen wings,
                        Bear him aloft above the wondering clouds,
                        And seat him in the Pleiads' golden chariot,
                        Thence should my fury drag him down to tortures.
                     Again: 
                        Kiss, while I watch thy swimming eye?balls roll,
                        Watch thy last gasp, and catch thy springing soul.
                    
                It was the age of common?sense, we are told, and truly; but of common?sense now
                    and then dissatisfied, common?sense here and there ambitious, common?sense of a
                    distinctively adult kind taking on an innocent tone. I find this little
                    affectation in Pope's word “sky” where a simpler poet would have “skies” or
                    “heavens.” Pope has “sky” more than once, and always with a little false air of
                    simplicity. And one instance occurs in that masterly and most beautiful poem,
                    the “Elegy on an Unfortunate Lady”: 
                        Is there no bright reversion in the sky?
                     “Yes, my boy, we may hope so,” is the reader's implicit mental aside, if
                    the reader be a man of humour. Let me, however, suggest no disrespect towards
                    this lovely elegy, of which the last eight
                    lines have an inimitable greatness, a tenderness and passion which the “Epistle
                    of Eloisa” makes convulsive movements to attain but never attains. And yet how
                    could one, by an example, place the splendid seventeenth century in closer—in
                    slighter yet more significant—comparison with the eighteenth than thus? Here is
                    Ben Jonson: 
                        What beckoning ghost, besprent with April dew,
                        Hails me so solemnly to yonder yew?
                     And this is Pope's improvement: 
                        What beckoning ghost along the moonlight shade
                        Invites my steps, and points to yonder glade?
                     But Pope follows this insipid couplet with two lines as exquisitely and
                    nobly modulated as anything I know in that national metre: 
                        'Tis she! but why that bleeding bosom gored,
                        Why dimly gleams the visionary sword?
                     That indeed is “music” in English verse—the counterpart of a great melody,
                    not of a tune.
                The eighteenth century matched its desire for wildness in poetry with a like
                    craving in gardens. The symmetrical and architectural garden, so magnificent in
                    Italy, and stately though more rigid and less
                    glorious in France, was scorned by the eighteenth?century poet?gardeners. Why?
                    Because it was “artificial,” and the eighteenth century must have “nature”—nay
                    passion. There seems to be some passion in Pope's grotto, stuck with spar and
                    little shells.
                Truly the age of the “Rape of the Lock” and the “Elegy” was an age of great wit
                    and great poetry. Yet it was untrue to itself. I think no other century has
                    cherished so persistent a self?conscious incongruity. As the century of good
                    sense and good couplets it might have kept uncompromised the dignity we honour.
                    But such inappropriate pranks have come to pass in history now and again. The
                    Bishop of Hereford, in merry Barnsdale, “danced in his boots”; but he was
                    coerced by Robin Hood.
            
        
    
