
     ----CITATION----
        Caird, Mona (1854-1932). Beyond the Pale. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 164 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University ( 1997).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7025
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    BEYOND THE PALE.
                    AN APPEAL ON BEHALF OF THE VICTIMS OF
                        VIVISECTION.
                
                BY MONA CAIRD. AUTHOR OF "A Sentimental View of
                    Vivisection," etc., etc.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    WILLIAM REEVES,
                        185, FLEET STREET, E.C.
                    
                
            
            
        
        
        
            
            BEYOND THE PALE.
            
                CHAPTER I.
                THE subject of vivisection, in all its aspects, is far too wide to
                    permit of adequate treatment in a pamphlet. I propose merely to lay before my
                    readers, a few of the conclusions to which the study of this question has forced
                    many besides myself, who have consulted the documents at first hand, in the
                    works of the physiologists themselves. Those who still believe, in spite of the
                    easily obtained evidence to the contrary, that vivisection means a pin-prick to
                    a few rabbits, which results in a rich harvest of benefit to mankind, are under
                    a mistake that would be laughable, were it not so tragic in its consequences to
                    thousands of animals, whose helplessness has exposed them to the arbitrary power
                    of man. Alas, man shows himself in this instance, as in all others when his
                    power is arbitrary, utterly unworthy of possessing it.* Towards the * 
                            
                                "I merely desire to call attention to the most grave, and in my
                                    opinion, the most instructive fact which was revealed to us by
                                    this great struggle" (between free enquiry and pure monarchy)
                                    "this is the danger, the evil and the unsurmountable vice of
                                    absolute power, whatever form, whatever name it may bear, and
                                    towards whatever aim it may direct itself
                            
                            —GUIZOT. HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION. VOL II.
                        
                            
                                "In a diploma of the 10th century, Otho I. gives a fortress to a
                                    convent, "with all the freemen commonly called ahrimans." In the
                                    11th century the Emperor Henry IV. made a similar donation to a
                                    monastery, and the ahrimans who inhabited the domain are here
                                    also included. Concessions of this kind were long common; many
                                    documents prove it, and a council of the 10th century forbade
                                    counts "to give the ahrimans of their counties in benefice to
                                    their men."';
                            
                            —GUIZOT. HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION. VOL. III.
                        
                            
                                "It is fitting that henceforth labourers who have thought of
                                    escaping, should be loaded with irons, in the manner of
                                    slaves."
                            
                            —CODE THEODOSIUS. Quoted by GUIZOT. HISTORY OF CIVILIZATION. VOL.
                                III.
                        
                     animals, his position is that of an omnipotent
                    god. Dare he say that he has proved himself a just or a merciful one?
                Really adequate quotation is impossible, in the space I have at command, but I
                    desire not merely to assert my own conviction, but to point out the nature of
                    the evidence on which it is founded, I propose to indicate, by a few extracts,
                    the character of the practice which is tolerated by the public and treated by
                    its supporters, as not merely permissible, but actually laudable and worthy of
                    the applause of those who have the welfare of their race at heart.
                I would strenuously urge all to consult the original sources of information for
                    themselves, for what I adduce is necessarily a mere fragment of the vast mass
                    from which it is taken. In the literature published by those who have been led,
                    through such research, to oppose the practice of experiments on living animals,
                    quotations from the works of physiologists are almost invariably given, with
                    careful references to chapter and page, so that the source of information can be
                    verified by the reader.† Anyone
                    therefore can convince himself of the facts, and it surely behoves him to either
                    con- † All information as to
                        literature on the subject and the means of obtaining it, can be had at the
                        London Anti-Vivisection Society, 32, Sackville Street, and from the Society
                        for the Protection of Animals from Vivisection, 20, Victoria Street,
                        Westminster, London, S.W. Many of the original works can be seen there, and
                        most are obtainable at the British Museum.
                     sult the evidence, or to cease to repeat the
                    parrot-cry: "no cruelty is perpetrated by vivisectors." If he finds that torture
                    is inflicted, a question arises that is not merely technical or scientific, and
                    one on which every layman has a right, and indeed a duty, to form an opinion:
                    viz., Does man"s power over animals justify him in torturing them for his own
                    benefit?
                The present controversy as to whether or not torture is inflicted, is truly
                    ludicrous, seeing that numberless volumes of evidence are extant, written by the
                    physiologists themselves, wherein the contentions of their opponents are proved,
                    and proved again. Indeed the evidence of the operators in these terrible
                    experiments on living creatures, is practically the sole evidence that
                        exists on the subject. Yet so truly ironical is Fate, that this is
                    the evidence that pro-vivisectors deny with so much anger and scorn!
                There are some persons who are able to believe that anti-vivisectionists have
                    originated this movement merely for the love of agitation, and to these, of
                    simple faith, one can but repeat: Consult the evidence.
                It is extremely difficult—I believe almost impossible—for any person not
                    favourable to the practice of vivisection to obtain admission into a
                    physiological laboratory, when the really important experiments are going on.
                    Mr. Amos Waters (Agnostic Journal, June 24, 1892), records an
                    instance when he obtained admission, but he was bound on his honour not to
                    describe the operations that took place (itself rather a significant fact);
                    therefore he can give no details; he can only tell us that "he came out into the
                    sunshine of the outer world sickened, shocked, and revolted beyond measure; the
                    twittering of free and happy birds seemed to thrill the air with tremulous
                    agony, and such agony so miserably meaningless and inexpressibly pitiful" was
                    that he had left behind. "I thought of the Inquisition tortures for the good of
                    souls. Alas! how blind we mortals are."
                I begin, not with the account of an experiment, but with a quotation from Dr.
                    Hoggan on the subject of anaesthetics.  Although
                    the facts he brings forward are well known to those who have any knowledge at
                    all on the subject, the vast majority are perfectly ignorant of it, and are
                    under the erroneous impression that anæsthetics, as they are given to vivisected
                    animals, are always a real safe-guard to the animal against pain. For this
                    reason I quote the passage almost in full. (The italics are all mine.)
                Dr. Hoggan in the Spectator, May 29th, 1875 says:—"The incalculable
                    advantages which mankind has derived from chloroform as a means of destroying
                    the sense of pain have remained a dead letter as regards the lower animals, in
                    consequence of the very unsatisfactory state of our knowledge of the line which
                    separates insensibility from death, especially in some of those classes of
                    animals that are most generally employed as the subjects of physiological
                    experimentation. Many of these die apparently before they can become insensible
                    through chloroform, some of them, indeed as soon as it has been administered.
                    The practical consequence of this uncertainty is that complete and
                        conscientious anæsthesia is seldom ever attempted, the animal getting at
                        most a slight whiff of chloroform, by way of satisfying the conscience of
                        the operator or of enabling him to make statements of a humane
                        character. Not only, however, are numerous cases to be regarded with
                    due suspicion ... but we have also to bear in mind that even where complete
                    insensibility has been produced at the beginning of an operation, this effect
                    only lasts for, at most, a minute or two, and during the rest of the operation,
                    lasting perhaps for hours, the animal must bear its torture as it best may.
                    Continued insensibility could only be maintained by continued careful
                    administration by a special assistant. This, I believe, is seldom, if ever
                    done:... and even if it were so, we should be leaving entirely out of sight
                        that numerous class of operations in which anæsthetics cannot be used,
                        as they would interfere with the correctness of the results: and
                    where, if used, they would render the experiment worse than useless. Personally,
                         I may add, that the first experiments which
                    I attempted to make, as a student, in my own private room, failed, because my
                    anxiety to produce anæsthesia, I found that the animal had died before the
                    experiment could be commenced: this too at a time when I had much experience in
                    administering chloroform in the operating theatre of the hospital. I, therefore,
                    gave up the idea of trying such experiments, until I had had an opportunity of
                    seeing how experienced vivisectors manage it. I have since then had ample
                    opportunity of seeing, and the result of my experience was embodied in a remark
                    I made in a letter published three months ago, that I am inclined to look
                        upon anæsthetics as the greatest curse to vivisectible animals."
                It is clear, then, according to this and other medical evidence, that in studying
                    the accounts of experiments, we dare not jump to the pleasant conclusion that
                    because the animal is said to have been put under an anæsthetic, it felt nothing
                    during the whole course of the experiment—leaving out of count, of course, what
                    it endures after recovery, if allowed to live. As I think Dr. Hoggan points out
                    elsewhere, it is the public, not the animal, that is rendered insensible.
                I now proceed to quote the account of an experiment, from the Journal of
                    Physiology, Vol. 13, No. 5, p.445, not because it is by any means among the most
                    terrible, but because it brings forward, in short space, one or two important
                    points. I copied it, among many others, into a note-book, when studying this and
                    other physiological works in the British Museum.
                "Lannois and Lépine used the intact animal. They opened the abdomen, isolated
                    with ligatures that part of the intestine upon which they desired to make
                    observations, and injected into this part the particular fluid they were using.
                    They then replaced the intestine, sewed up the abdominal wall. After an
                        interval of an hour or more the animal was killed," (italics mine)
                    "and the contents of the isolated portion examined." Then follow some remarks
                    upon the nature of the conclusions to be drawn from the experiment, which  appear not to be relied upon. "It appears
                        possible that in the unanæsthetised animal, the obstructions instituted may
                        have largely hindered normal processes and probably more so than if the
                        animal had been kept under a narcotic." (Italics mine). Here, then,
                    it is beyond all dispute, that the animal was not under an
                    anæsthetic, and that it had to endure its suffering for "an hour or more." (I
                    may note, in passing, that narcotics are not true anæsthetics, and
                    are powerless to render the creature safe against pain, even for the moment; but
                    as to this point, the testimony of the celebrated vivisector, Claude Bernard
                    will presently be adduced.)
                In the experiment quoted above, "the unanæsthetised animal" is spoken of as
                    having inconveniences as regards results, in this case, and "a
                        narcotic" is referred to as the sort of "anæsthetic" that would
                    naturally be employed, if any were used at all. Morphia, be it remembered, is a
                        narcotic, and has the character of all narcotics.
                Now this is what Claude Bernard, the celebrated vivisector, says about narcotics
                    in the "Revue des Cours Scientifiques," Vol. VI., p.446: "You see that the
                    animal has fallen into a state of stupefaction, which leaves them absolutely
                    motionless, for it is evident that if he had not received the morphia, he would
                    not remain thus stretched upon this table without attempting to escape. He has
                    then lost consciousness of the place he is in, he no longer recognises his
                    master. Nevertheless sensibility persists" (italics mine), "for if
                    we pinch the animal, he stirs and cries. But these are only reflex actions....
                    His intellectual faculties are completely benumbed.... You see, moreover, that
                    morphia plunges dogs into a state of immobility which allows one to place them
                    on the experimenting trough without tying or muzzling them."
                Again, Claude Bernard speaks of the nature of another drug that has actually been
                    used as if it were a true anæsthetic, "the hellish wourali," as Tennyson calls
                    it, or curare, as it is called by physiologists. Claude Bernard, in the
                        Revue Scientifique 1871-2, p.892, says "Curare, acting on the
                         nervous system only suppresses the actions
                    of the motor nerves, leaving sensation intact." (Italics mine.) ...
                    "Curare is not an anæsthetic."
                In the same Review for 1874-5, p.1117, he speaks of human patients who have been
                    under the influence of this terrible drug. They give testimony to the frightful
                    pain they suffered, and relate that "during paralysis they had been fully aware
                    of their existence and of all that happened around them."
                Vulpian gives the same testimony ("Leçons sur l'appareil vasomoteur." Paris,
                    1875, p.660).
                Although the following quotation is long, I will cite it, as it will serve two
                    purposes: first, that of giving an idea of the unutterable agony caused by the
                    use of this awful poison, on the testimony of the man who is so well qualified
                    to speak on the subject, and second: that of providing an example that no one
                    can deny or explain away, of the hardening effect of the practice of vivisection
                    upon the character; (since this is a truism that is actually disputed). We see
                    here, by his own testimony, how thoroughly Claude Bernard understood the
                    unspeakable anguish that he was causing, yet we see also that he did not
                    hesitate for a moment to inflict it; in fact, he spent his life in inflicting
                    it; and if we may judge from the whole tenour of his writings, he appears to
                    have derived actual pleasure from his ghastly work. Yet this many is spoken of
                    with respect and admiration by his countrymen, and our leading English
                    physiologists were liberal in their subscriptions towards the statue that was
                    erected in his honour, wherein he is represented, scalpel in hand, with a
                    tortured dog lying in a trough at his feet.
                In his famous paper on Curare ("Revue des Deux Mondes," Sept., 1864, p.173), this
                    prince of vivisectors says: "If in fact we now approach the essential part of
                    our subject, we enter by means of experiments into the organic analysis of vital
                    extinction, we discover that this death which appears to steal on in so gentle a
                    manner and so exempt  from pain, is, on the
                    contrary, accompanied by the most atrocious sufferings that the mind of
                        man can conceive." (Italics mine). On p.162 he says: "In this
                    motionless body, behind that glazing eye, and with all the appearance of death,
                    sensitiveness and intelligence persist in their entirety. This corpse before us
                    hears and distinguishes all that is done around it. It suffers when pinched or
                    irritated: in a word, it still has consciousness and volition, but it has lost
                    the instruments which serve to manifest them."
                He adds ("Leçons de Physiologie Opératoire," 1879, p.168), "Curare is now
                    employed as a means of restraint in a large number of experiments.* There are but few operations of which
                    the narrative does not commence by notifying that they were made on a curarised
                    dog."
                Now this man, who subjects sentient creatures to this unspeakable anguish, can
                    record his deeds coolly and deliberately, in a periodical known to all the
                    world, without evidently the faintest notion that he is describing acts that any
                    reasonable person could object to.
                But what is still more bewildering and ominous, is that mankind not only exhibits
                    no indignation or revolt, but actually erects a statue in his honour! The
                    vivisector, alas, did not miscalculate when he appealed to the unutterable
                    selfishness of the being, who claims kingship over the whole creation on the
                    ground of his mental and moral superiority—which he thus proves! To those who
                    are studying this subject, at first hand, in the vivisectors" own works, this
                    pompous justification of a particularly cowardly form of cruelty has almost the
                    effect of a ghastly joke!
                Perchance by means of this indescribable anguish of help- * "Le curare est aujourd hui
                            employé comme moyen de contention dans un grand nombre
                            d"exériences."Curare is the poison used by the Indians to poison
                            their arrows, and many travellers who have experienced its effects give
                            testimony to its peculiar and terrible potency. Yet certain English
                            physiologists are actually beginning to deny this.
                     less animals, the superior being may discover
                    how to ward off some of the unpleasant consequences of his sins, or of his
                    preposterous ignorance of the laws of nature. Let the torturer, therefore be
                    cheered on to his work: let the cries of anguish go up day by day, and often
                    night after night; nay, let the animal be held in the awful spell that forbids
                    even the expression of its agony, forbids a movement or a groan, though it lies
                    unbound in the torture-trough, in a horrible semblance of liberty. Let man buy
                    his knowledge by this means, let him dedicate his brother to the hideous work
                    though his nature become flint in the process—yes, though he come to love the
                    torture for its own sake, and to develop the horrible lust of cruelty that lurks
                    in the depths of the human heart, to spring forth, tiger-like, when training and
                    conditions combine to stimulate it, and to discourage the sympathetic and the
                    pitiful instincts that alas, take so little to destroy!*
                Though Claude Bernard"s deeds can only be described as devilish, it is unlikely
                    that he was morally below the average of his contemporaries, who applauded his
                    life-work so enthusiastically. It was training and conditions; above all, it was
                    the acquiescence of his fellows which encouraged him in his downward path and
                    ended in producing a character such as his works reveal. The same awful
                    callousness is betrayed, nay proclaimed with pride, in all the works of his
                    colleagues, when they are written, as they are on the con-  * Montesquieu appears to have
                            fully realized the effect upon human nature of the opportunity to
                            cruelty and tyranny. In his "Esprit des Lois." Vol. II., p.257, he says
                            "It" (slavery) "is useful neither to the master nor to the slave......
                            to the former because he ...... accustoms himself insensibly to
                                the loss of all moral virtues, because he becomes insolent, hasty,
                                hard, furious, licentious and cruel." (Italics
                            mine).Montesquieu does not say: Some men, born
                            peculiarly cruel, become in the position of slave-owners, hasty, hard,
                            and so forth—but he says, in general: The master develops these bad
                            qualities—, showing that Montesquieu attributes them to the man"s
                                conditions and not to his disposition.
                     tinent, without fear of arousing any section
                    of the public to remonstrance. These men probably torture an animal with no more
                    compunction than a sportsman will shoot a partridge, and in both cases, it is
                    not the inborn nature of the man, but the training, and the opinions of those
                    around him which really have engendered the deed.*
                In attempting to decide the relation between character and environment and their
                    proportionate influence, let us not forget that average human
                    nature has acquiesced in bear-baiting, bull-fighting, witch-burning, the
                    persecution of heretics; to say nothing of the torturing of slaves and "free
                    labourers" in early ages, as an ordinary form of punishment. It has seen no
                    wrong in gladiatorial contest, in the flinging of Christians to be devoured by
                    wild beasts, in their destruction by fire and sword. It has not only justified
                    but applauded, as proofs of a righteous zeal, the subsequent persecution of one
                    sect of Christians by another sect, merely because they differed on the question
                    of Church Government, or in some microscopical point of doctrine. It has
                    encouraged and inflamed hatred, malice and all uncharitableness towards * The scene in "Cymbeline" between
                        the Queen and Doctor Cornelius may be quoted here. In this case, the doctor
                        remonstrates against the vivisecting spirit of the Queen, who has commanded
                        him to bring her 
                            
                                "most poisonous compounds
                                Which are the movers of a languishing death;
                                But though slow, deadly,"
                                "Is it not meet?" asks the Queen,
                                "That I did amplify my judgment in
                                Other conclusions? I will try the forces
                                Of these thy compounds on such creatures as
                                We count not worth the hanging (but none human).
                                To try the vigour of them, and apply
                                Allayments to their act; and by them gather
                                Their several virtues, and effects."
                            
                            
                                CORNELIUS:
                                "Your Highness.
                                Shall from this practice but make hard your heart,"
                                Besides, the seeing these effects will be
                                Both noisome and infectious."
                            
                        
                     those who presumed to dissent from the more
                    powerful schools of thought, on any question of doctrine or of conduct
                    whatsoever. I have said that average human nature has seen no wrong in all this;
                    but as a matter of fact, nature very much above the average has
                    seen no wrong in it. Was the great and merciful Emperor Marcus Aurelius, who yet
                    did not shrink from watching the horrible scenes in the arena of the Roman
                    ampitheatre, not above the average of mankind? Do we hear that the famous Roman
                    thinkers and philosophers and patriots raised a protest against the daily
                    atrocities of that place of martyrdom? Have we a record of any of the
                    distinguished churchmen, or even of the saints, objecting to the burning of
                    heretics; to the awful martyrdom of those fellow-creatures who thought about
                    religion in a manner slightly different from that which the governing majority
                    held to be right? I cannot recall a single instance of such toleration even
                    among the saints;—unless we may perhaps except that moral genius St.
                    Francis.
                What then are we to expect of ordinary men? Yet unless we are to conclude that
                    all these multitudes of ordinary and extraordinary people were intrinsically and
                    hopelessly bad, we are driven to the alternative conclusion that they were, at
                    least, fairly well intentioned and conscientious people, who certainly did not
                    go out of their way to lead cruel and evil lives. And yet these very men and
                    women acquiesced in deeds that, in their essential nature, are simply atrocious.
                    Surely this ought to show us the utter folly of supposing that a good man—as the
                    standard of his time goes—can do no wrong. He may be "good," and yet commit
                    diabolical deeds with the applause of his countrymen. In fact it takes nothing
                    short of a special "revelation" (however the word may be interpreted) to create
                    a new standard. It is to create new standards that Buddhas and Christs are born
                    now and then into the savage old world, to plead with us that we make  not life into a hell for one another, and for all
                    living beings within our accursed reach.*
                The following quotation will give a vivid impression of the ideal aimed at by the
                    leaders of the vivisectionist school. I quote from Cyon"s "Methodik der
                    physiologischen Experimente und Vivisectionen" (Giessen, St. Petersburg, 1876).
                    In the preface to the work, the author says: "The true vivisector must approach
                    a difficult vivisection with the same joyful excitement and the same delight
                    wherewith a surgeon undertakes a difficult operation from which he expects
                    extraordinary consequences. He who shrinks from cutting into a living animal, he
                    who approaches a vivisection as a disagreeable necessity, may very likely be
                    able to repeat one or two vivisections, but he will never become an artist
                        in vivisection." (Italics mine.) He who cannot follow some fine
                    nerve-thread, scarcely visible to the naked eye, into the depths, if possible
                    sometimes tracing it to a new branching, with joyful alertness for hours at a
                    time; he who feels no enjoyment when at last, parted from its surroundings and
                    isolated, he can subject that nerve to electrical stimulation; * The views of the "intimate
                            councillor" of the Prince of Orange "the accomplished Saint Aldegonde,"
                            as Motley calls him, are extremely significant in relation to the
                            subject. Prince William was far too tolerant to please the Saint. He was
                            in despair because the Prince refused to exclude the Anabaptists of
                            Holland from the rights of citizenship. To William "it was a bitter
                            disappointment ... to see wise statesmen of his own creed unable to rise
                            to the idea of toleration." Motley gives Saint Aldegonde"s own words.
                            "The Prince objects to exclude them" (the Anabaptists) "from
                            citizenship. He answered me sharply that their yea was equal to our
                            oath, and that we should not press this matter" (their exclusion)
                            "unless we were willing to confess that it was just for the
                                Papists to compel us to a Divine Service which was against
                            our consciences."It seems hardly credible,"Motley continues,
                            "that this sentence containing so sublime a tribute to the character of
                            the Prince should have been indited as a bitter censure, and that too by
                            an enlightened and accomplished Protestant.—MOTLEY"S RISE OF THE
                                DUTCH REPUBLIC, Vol. II., p.241.
                     or when, in some deep cavity, guided only by
                    the sense of touch of his finger-ends, he ligitures and divides an invisible
                    vessel—to such there is wanting that which is most necessary for a successful
                    vivisector. The pleasure of triumphing over difficulties held hitherto
                    insuperable is always one of the highest delights of the vivisector. And the
                    sensation of the physiologist, when from a gruesome wound, full of blood and
                    mangled tissue, he draws forth some delicate nerve branch, and calls back to
                    life a function which was already extinguished—this sensation has much in common
                    with that which inspires a sculptor, when he shapes forth fair living forms from
                    a shapeless mass of marble." (p.15)
                Now, although this attitude of mind, in its utter ruthlessness, appears to me to
                    be absolutely diabolical—the popular "Devil" really seems a genial, kindly
                    creature compared with this "artist in vivisection"—yet, alas, I fear there is
                    not one man in ten thousand who could have been subjected to the same training
                    as that which Cyon received, without becoming similar in character to this
                    merciless torturer. The average man will accept with a light heart all that he
                    has been trained to regard as justifiable and as a matter of course, no matter
                    how cruel or how atrocious. The average cook, for instance, is not usually a
                    fiend incarnate, yet she will boil a live lobster, often slowly, and smile
                    indulgently, if not scornfully, at any remonstrance, not because
                    she is abnormally cruel, but because she is normally unthinking. "Everybody does
                    it," is the only justification to which she will condescend, and she evidently
                    regards it as more than sufficient.
                (I may suggest, in passing, to mistresses of households, to take note of this
                    ghastly habit, and to remember that as lobsters can scarcely be killed in any
                    other way, it is surely incumbent on people calling themselves "civilized" to
                    refrain from eating a creature that has to be doomed to so horrible a death.
                We must never forget, then, that the average man will run in the direction of
                    least resistance. All history tells the  same
                    tale. The best men will do, without a qualm, in one age, that which the worst
                    would hesitate to commit in another. Not one in a million adopts and acts upon a
                    moral standard distinctly different from that which is accepted in his circle.
                    Of desperate moment then, is that standard, which we are all
                    engaged in confirming, or making, or unmaking, every day of our lives. Except
                    for purposes of altering current opinion, minds of original power need not be
                    counted. We may rest assured that in a society where it was regarded as a matter
                    of course, for instance, that every respectable family should partake of boiled
                    infant for its regular Christmas dinner, not merely the heartless and cruel, but
                    the kind and good members of the community would sit round and enjoy the dish
                    with perfect cheerfulness, and march off to church with the same sense of virtue
                    and the same irreproachable demeanour that distinguishes our pillars of society,
                    at the present unimpeachable moment.
                It is not the great gulf which they assume between infant and turkey, so much as
                    the vast chasm between what everybody does and what
                        nobody does, that is really at the bottom of their conduct, and
                    of their ardent convictions on this and on all other matters, religious and
                    secular. And the vivisectors do not au fond
                    differ from the rest of the world. It is idle to attack them while leaving their
                    multitude of supporters unchallenged. The most hardened vivisector would not
                    dine on infant (even if the law did not interfere) unless public opinion were
                    more or less favourable to the practice, or apathetic in regard to it.* Nor would they pursue their * The last clause of
                            Montesquieu"s burlesque apology for slavery is a very slight caricature
                            of an argument which he had doubtless heard again and again, an argument
                            that has probably been used by the upholders of all disgraceful
                            institutions since the world began. I quote it below. One can almost see
                            before one, as one reads, the well-groomed person of balanced views
                            descanting on the slave question! "Small minds exaggerate too much the
                            injustice that is said to be done to the negroes, for if it was such as
                            they assert, would it not have occurred to the princes of Europe who
                            make among themselves so many useless treaties, to make a universal one
                            in favour of mercy and pity?" (Montesquieu, "Esprit des Lois," Vol. II.,
                            p.246)."Small minds," (echo the vivisectionists), "exaggerate the
                            cruelty of vivisection, for if it were such as they assert, would it not
                            have occurred to the physiologists, who make among themselves so many
                            useless treaties," (they do indeed!) "to make a universal one in favour
                            of mercy and pity?" And so we are to conclude that slavery and
                            vivisection are not wrong?
                     present work of torture unless their own
                    particular public more or less approved and encouraged it. For my own part, I
                    think the public ought to be held, in some respects, more responsible than the
                    vivisectors, whose better instincts have been benumbed by their long
                    apprenticeship to cruelty.
                It is the height of folly to say, as one so often hears the more ignorant
                    supporters of vivisection say: "Medical men are all so humane; therefore we may
                    trust them to pursue this method of research." This amounts to saying: "Medical
                    men are so humane, therefore let us subject them to every temptation to cruelty,
                    and afford them every opportunity of curing themselves of their natural
                    humanity."
                In Vol. XIII. of the Journal of Physiology, p.467, an experiment is recorded
                    under choral, which is not a true anæsthetic, but a narcotic, and therefore
                    could not fully protect from pain if at all. (See above, pages 8 and 9).
                "A rabbit had cervical sympathetic nerve tied and cut, also third nerve in skull
                    tied and cut, the anterior part of the brain being removed."
                In Vol. XIII. p.773, Journal of Physiology, Dec. 1892, an article signed Howard
                    Tooth begins as follows: (I do not quote details, as the opening sentence shows
                    the nature of the experiments).
                "In the course of a series of experiments on monkeys at the Laboratory of the
                    Royal College of Physicians and  Surgeons, made
                    with a view to determine the paths of sensation (in the broadest sense of
                    different impressions) in the cord and medulla —" etc.
                It may be left to the reader to infer whether experiments on the "paths of
                    sensation" are likely to have been performed when the animal was insensible, and
                    whether such experiments were likely to be painless.
                It is observable that in experiments on the nature of pain or on the course of
                    sensation, where it would be obviously ridiculous to state that true anæsthetics
                    have been administered, extreme caution is observed, in English journals, in
                    giving the details of the experiments. On the continent, on the other hand,
                    where no public opinion is to be feared, such details are freely recorded, as
                    when Mantegazza describes, in his Physiology of Pain, his ingenious
                    apparatus for creating the greatest agony that was possible to be contrived. (He
                    was making researches into the nature of pain.) It would be a relief to believe
                    the man mad, who could deliberately watch, as he says himself, "with much
                    delight and patience," the intolerable anguish that he describes; but
                    unfortunately, we find that the possession of opportunities and exposure to the
                    particular temptations of the physiologist, always produce madness of an exactly
                    similar kind, and that the rage seems to become cruel and terrible in almost
                    exact proportion to the fulness of the power and to the completeness of the
                    public apathy or approval of this awful abuse.
                But to return to our English vivisectors, who are more guarded in their
                    descriptions, but I greatly fear, are not more guarded in their
                    experiments. Dr. Klein, (the well-known German vivisector who pursues his
                    researches in this country) told the Royal Commission that he saw no difference
                    between English and foreign vivisectional practice.
                I now quote from the Journal of Physiology, Vol. XIII., p.779. "The exact
                    function of the ascending root has yet to be determined but it is more than
                    probable that it conducts touch, pain and temperature sensations  from the face. I have, since writing this, however,
                    made one more experiment of a similar nature, and in this animal, I was unable
                    to satisfy myself that there was any loss of sensation in the face.... Moreover,
                    Dr. Mott has been able by means of a specially devised knife, to cut the
                    antero-latero ascending track in the cervical cord with great accuracy. In his
                    cases there have been no signs of any loss of sensation, though there was some
                    loss of equilibration."
                Anyone who will read Dr. Carpenter"s well-known "Physiology," will find allusions
                    to or descriptions of painful experiments on every second page. They are
                    sometimes described in such technical language that translation is an advantage,
                    as for instance, when he describes M. Chossat"s experiments in starving dogs to
                    death, as a study of "the results of an entire deficiency of food and its supply
                    in a measure inadequate to the wants of the system."* He says that "Schleffer found in a dog
                    wholly deprived of water, the loss of the different organs was nearly the same
                    as in the deprivation of solid food."†
                    Ordinary persons would call this "death from thirst."
                I now take a few of the experiments quoted by Mark Thornhill, in his paper
                    entitled "English Vivisection" (1885). In order that I may be able, as a matter
                    of form, to vouch for their correctness myself, the original sources have been
                    consulted. In the British Medical Journal, 1884, Dr. Cheyne writes (p.645), Feb.
                    11th, 1882: "Incisions were made antiseptically into the lumbar muscles on each
                    side in a large rabbit. A croton-oil tube was introduced on each side, the
                    muscles and skin were stitched over them with cat-gut ... the wounds healed ...
                    On April 6th, the tubes were burst by pressure. Swellings formed on each side.
                    On May 3rd, the rabbit was killed. On making incisions through the skin * Note Carpenter"s Physiology; 5th
                        Ed., p.55.
                    † Note Carpenter"s Physiology;
                        8th Ed., p.109.
                     and muscles, large abscesses containing cheesy
                    pus, were found deeply seated."
                Mark Thornhill comments as follows on this operation:—"Stated in ordinary
                    language, the experiment amounted to this:—the loins of the animal were cut
                    open, and glass tubes filled with an irritating liquid were embedded in the
                    wounds; ultimately the tubes were broken, and the liquid escaping diffused
                    itself among the lacerated tissues, producing violent inflammation, resulting in
                    extensive abscesses." The reader will note that the experiment occupied a period
                    of nearly three months. During the greater part of this period, the rabbit must
                    have endured much suffering and during a portion of the time, namely, while the
                    abscesses were forming, its sufferings must have been very acute. The
                    experiment, in this and other forms, appears to have been tried on a
                    considerable number of rabbits. The condition of one of these is thus
                    described:—"The skin was involved in the gangrene and the whole became a putrid
                    mass, full of organisms." It is obvious that in these experiments, anæsthetics
                    could not have been used, except for the actual operations. But is is not state
                    that they were administered even for these."
                Another series of experiments by Drs. Lauder Brunton and Theodore Cash are quoted
                    by Mark Thornhill from the October No. of "The Practitioner," 1884, and this
                    quotation I have also verified. Mark Thornhill comments as follows:—"The
                    experiments consisted in the exposure of several cats to a "rise of temperature"
                    and to "very high temperature." This "exposure" would appear however from the
                    description to have been something not very different from baking alive. It is
                    mentioned, for example, that one of the cats died from heat (hyperpyrexia) when
                    the temperature of the body had reached 46°.6 and that another cat began to
                    suffocate at a degree of heat a little lower."
                The duration of the experiments is given as:— 
                        
                            1st.
                            3 hrs.
                            40 min.
                        
                        
                            2nd.
                            5 hrs.
                            0 min.
                        
                        
                            3rd.
                            2 hrs.
                            20 min.
                        
                        
                            4th.
                            3 hrs.
                            50 min.
                        
                        
                            5th.
                            3 hrs.
                            0 min.
                        
                    
                     and it is state that "at the 90th minute
                    natural respiration ceased and had to be conducted artificially."
                Artificial respiration is effected by slitting the windpipe and pumping air into
                    the lungs by means of a bellows and an engine. In Ludwig"s great laboratory at
                    Leipzig, we are told "an engine is at work night and day pumping air in and out
                    of the lungs of the animals that are the subjects of physiological researches.
                    Many of them are left all night in their mutilated condition, kept alive by this
                    process of artificial respiration, when Nature would have otherwise put a
                    merciful end to their sufferings by death."
                From Miss Cobbe"s book "The Modern Rack," I quote the following:—
                "Here is a little scene which my friend Dr. Hoggan (who has done so much to
                    reveal the secrets of these torture-dens) once told me quite incidentally. It
                    was a mere mild and ordinary one, not what is called a severe experiment at all,
                    in short, the every-day work in a certain celebrated foreign laboratory, to
                    whose deceased master all our leading physiologists have lately joined to raise
                    a memorial. The room is full of costly and delicate machines, expressly
                    constructed for a hundred kinds of experiments. You may ... judge of the truth
                    of the assertion that it is a rare practice for which scores and
                    hundreds of such expensive instruments are made. A little white fox-terrier has
                    just been taken down off the torture trough. Its sides have been mangled and
                    certain nerves cut across, so that, when it is placed on the floor, its slender
                    hind legs only trail behind it. It will never stand on them and scour over the
                    fields again. It crawls away as stricken animals do to hide itself in the
                    darkest corner and cool its fever of agony by lying on the stones. Meanwhile a
                    fine black retriever rises from the fireside. He has served for other
                    experiments. He has had some ganglions at the base of the brain which are
                    connected with the eyes severed, and the result is that his poor eyes, once so
                    bright and keen, have been for several days slowly perishing and  putrefying, to the great satisfaction of the
                    physiologists, who thus know they have cut just the right spot. The poor brute
                    feebly rises and meets the little white terrier. I do not know anything more; I
                    could not bear quite to hear. It was a very small incident, involving nothing
                    like the extremes of suffering; but it gave me just a glimpse into a
                    vivisector"s workshop."
                Miss Cobbe tells the significant story of a friend whose little girl had wished
                    to find a good home for her two guinea-pigs on coming to town, and finally gave
                    them to the children of a certain Professor. When the little girl afterwards
                    inquired for the guinea-pigs, "Oh," said the children, "One day when we were out
                    Papa got them and cut them up."
                "Another friend," said Miss Cobbe, "was told by a student who witnessed the scene
                    in Edinburgh, that a little dog, brought into a certain professor"s laboratory,
                    took alarm at the awful preparations, and turning from one to another of the
                    assistants, stood up and begged for its life. The lads were touched, and asked
                    the professor to allow them to pay its price and set it free. The professor told
                    them he would teach them to have such maudlin sensibility, and not only
                    vivisected the creature cruelly that day, but kept it till the following week"s
                    lecture, and tortured it again, till death mercifully ended its poor little
                    existence."
                Miss Cobbe also mentions that Dr. de Noë Walker himself told her that he had seen
                    a vivisector take a mother from her pups, "cut off its mammary glands, and put
                    it down mutilated, bleeding, and dying among its little ones, whom it could no
                    longer feed, but only licked in its last agony."
                There are in Miss Cobbe"s, book plates illustrating some of the instruments and
                    apparatus used in physiological laboratories. "A little saw for sawing the
                    vertebræ," "bone forceps to open the vertebral canal," "forceps of which the
                    teeth cross like scissors, intended to saw the bones of old animals."
                
                There is an illustration of Schwann"s apparatus for sustaining artificial
                    respiration, and a multitude of other instruments, of which Miss Cobbe gives the
                    names of the makers. (In London, Messrs. Hawkley, Messrs. Cettie, Messrs.
                    Eliott, etc.). Then come vivisecting tables, double troughs, instruments "for
                    suspending a dog in an upright position to be maintained for several days," "for
                    holding a dog"s jaws open"; "Czermak"s rabbit-holder," "Claude Bernard"s stoves
                    in which he baked animals to death." (He calls it "the study of the mechanism of
                    death by heat.") There is also an illustration of the living dog which M. Paul
                    Bert succeeded in stiffening into the semblance, "of a piece of wood. So proud
                    was M. Bert of this achievement," says Miss Cobbe, "that his portrait has been
                    exhibited in Paris, holding up the tortured animal in the attitude depicted."
                    His own words are quoted from his book "La Pression Barométrique," p.800, and I
                    have had the quotation verified. "Let us come," he says, "to the description of
                    the convulsive attack" (produced by placing the victim for hours under
                    compressed oxygen). "It is really curious and frightful" (effrayante).
                "Let us take," he continues, "a case of medium intensity. When the animal is
                    taken out of the machine, it is generally in full tonic convulsions. The four
                    paws are stiffened, the trunk is curved backwards, the eyes are starting from
                    the head, the jaws clenched. Soon there is a sort of loosening, to which
                    succeeds a new crisis of stiffenings with clonic convulsion, resembling at once
                    a crisis of strychnine poisoning and an attack of tetanus.... Sensibility
                        is preserved." (Italics mine). "In lighter cases, instead of attacks
                    so violent that one may lift the animal by one paw, stiff as a piece of wood, as
                    shown in figure 61, one observes disordered movements, local convulsions, in a
                    word, phenomena much resembling those of poisoning by carbolic acid" (acide
                    phenique).
                If any one imagines I have picked out the worst or  the merely exceptional cases, I can only emphatically
                    deny it, and urge whoever doubts to consult the works to which I refer and many
                    others on the subject that can be met with. It is indeed absolutely impossible
                    to give any idea of the incredible atrocities that are committed in the name of
                    science and humanity, of the hideous sights of the laboratories, of the
                    unutterable agony that is daily suffered by the innocent and defenceless; agony
                    that to them is rayless, hopeless, purposeless, a terrible and ceaseless
                    accompaniment of torment to the already heart-breaking tragedies of Life. It is
                    moreover, suffering that does not come through sin, or through disobedience to
                    natural or to moral laws, but it is intentionally and deliberately inflicted by
                    the stronger creature upon the weaker, in the hope that the stronger may gain by
                    the savage treachery.
                The following is quoted from Baron Weber"s "Torture Chamber of Science," an
                    address delivered by him in Dresden.* He
                    says: "Thirst for the fame of a discoverer rules the younger physiologists so
                    generally and so entirely that they no longer take into consideration any other
                    than purely scientific motives. The immediate result of every real or supposed
                    discovery by any physiologist is, not that any question is set at
                    rest, but that the experiments published by him are imitated and repeated all
                    over Europe by physiological inquirers, and among these are many unpractised
                    beginners. There are as many differences of opinion among vivisectors as there
                    are vivisectors themselves, and accordingly an experiment, made—say at Leipsic
                    or Berlin—is at once followed by a series of similar experiments, solely for the
                    purpose of checking the first and of calling in question the inferences drawn
                    therefrom. Every new experiment published in a scientific periodical opens up
                    many questions of * Unless
                        stated to the contrary, all Baron Weber"s statements rest on his authority
                        alone. His "Torture Chamber of Science," having been originally an address,
                        gives few references.
                     detail, and thus the number of experiments is
                    continually increasing in geometrical progression, and is multiplied ad infinitum. The history of vivisection shows that
                    every generation of vivisectors will throw over the conclusions of the preceding
                    generation, only in their turn to be discarded as erroneous by those who come
                    after them. The most insignificant of physiologists thinks himself gifted with a
                    genius for discovery, and it need not astonish us that, with a large proportion
                    of inferior scientific talent among physiological inquirers, so little that is
                    useful to science and medicine comes from their innumerable experiments.... By
                    far the greater part of the experiments are now directed towards examining the
                    organization of the brain and its reference to the nervous system, and for these
                    the unfortunate animals, while being slowly tortured to death, are not even
                    allowed the benefit of anæsthetics, as they would essentially interfere with the
                    inferences drawn from the experiments."
                Further on, the same author says: "The German anatomist, Straus-Dërkheim,
                    expressed himself in the following terms: "The students learning nothing from
                    this horrible practice of vivisecting. All the organic functions of animals
                    placed in such a frightful condition must be altogether disturbed, and can,
                    therefore, teach nothing new. But fanaticism is a disease that spreads, and
                    vivisectors are springing up everywhere. One inflicts pain from curiosity,
                    another from habit, a third in order to follow the fashion."';
                Baron Weber goes on: "A multitude of vivisectors, for example, do not agree about
                    the functions of the brain. This is very natural, for according to the opinion
                    given by an eminent doctor whom I find quoted in the report of the English Royal
                    Commission, the brain is so complicated an organ that one cannot hope ever to
                    make any certain discoveries about it by means of vivisection. Every difference
                    of opinion among vivisectors who seek to investigate the secrets of the brain
                    only brings about a fresh set of  torments, the
                    results of which are still more contradictory than the previous ones, because
                    they depend upon influences so diverse and so altogether unknown; but they all
                    involve cruelty and great suffering to the animal sacrificed. The pain, the
                    torture, to many thousands of sensitive creatures is certain; the results are
                    most uncertain and problematical."
                "The celebrated Parisian Professor, Majendie, was guilty of such horrible
                    treatment of his unfortunate victims, that for my own part, I seriously count
                    him among the worst criminals that have ever lived. For instance, he nailed a
                    fine, sensitive little spaniel, which he had bought at an auction, by its four
                    paws and its long silky ears, to the table (before anæsthetics were invented)
                    that he might show his pupils more conveniently and uninterruptedly the
                    separating of the nerves of the eyes, the sawing of the skull, the cutting of
                    the spine, and the laying open of the different sets of nerves. Then he kept the
                    poor animal, still alive, for the experiment of the next day. The same man cut
                    the stomach out of a dog, and fastened a bladder in its place, and then observed
                    the interesting physiological incidences in the slowly expiring animal!"
                "Professor Fyfe of Edinburgh, having once fastened a beautiful spaniel by all its
                    feet, attached it still more surely by a stout thong which he put through the
                    nostrils of the animal after he had made a hole through the nose with an iron
                    instrument. He then cut open the chest and the belly to show his pupils the
                    separate intestinal organs. The expression of agony, when the animal showed its
                    white teeth and tried to resist, was, according to the account of an
                    eye-witness, most horrible, for fearful pain must have been caused by the least
                    movement of the nostrils, so sensitive in the dog. You are all probably aware of
                    the experiment made by Professor Brachet, of Paris, in which he tried to
                    ascertain the limits of a dog"s attachment."
                (On this occasion, though Baron Weber does not give his  authority, I happen to be able to quote an account of
                    the experiment, from John Elliotson"s "Human Physiology" (p.450). Elliotson
                    quotes, in inverted commas, Brachet"s own account of the experiment, which I
                    give in preference to Baron Weber"s digest of it, simply because it is in the
                    words of the experimenter himself, although the digest is rather shorter, and,
                    in that respect, preferable. The following (on Elliotson"s authority) are
                    Brachet"s words:—
                "I inspired a dog with the greatest aversion for me by plaguing and inflicting
                    some pain or other upon it, as often as I saw it. When this feeling was carried
                    to its height, so that the animal became furious as soon as it saw or heard me,
                    I put out its eyes. I could now appear before it without its manifesting any
                    aversion. I spoke, and immediately its barking and furious movements proved the
                    passion which animated it.
                "I destroyed the drums of its ears and disorganized the internal ear as much as I
                    could: when an intense inflammation which was excited had rendered him deaf, I
                    filled up its ears with wax. He could no longer hear at all. Then I went up to
                    its side, spoke aloud, and even caressed it, without its falling into a rage—it
                    seems even sensible to my caresses."
                I continue now to quote from "The Torture-Chamber of Science."
                "Professor Buillaud bored through the skull of a dog in two places with a thick
                    iron bore and inserted a red-hot iron into its brain. The animal howled and
                    shrieked for six days, almost without cessation, although they tried with
                    repeated blows to quiet it, so that at last, out of consideration for the
                    neighbourhood, it had to be killed." The following is from John Elliotson"s
                    "Human Physiology," p.429. "If ever he" (Majendie), "amused himself by sticking
                    pins into the corda oblongata of pigeons, the birds thus ornamented by him would
                    walk and fly backwards for above a month. Professor Schliff roused public
                    opinion in Florence against him to such a degree, by his unfeeling vivisection
                    that he was  fortunate in being called away to
                    Geneva, where he now resides. He vivisected more than 700 dogs yearly, so every
                    day his hands reeked with the blood of dogs. In Paragraph 1287, of the Report"
                    (of the Royal Commission) "you will find that in one of his books, on the
                    "Physiology of the Digestion,"'; he says, "with many of the dogs admitted to my
                    laboratory, I am obliged, directly after their arrival, to cut the nerves of the
                    voice, that their nightly concert may not bring my physiological studies into
                    bad repute with my neighbours." Professor Ferrier cut open the heads of thirteen
                    monkeys, and he describes in a masterly manner the indication of pain shown by
                    the poor little animals during the experiments that followed (Royal Commission).
                    Dr. Carpenter ("Physiology," 7th edition, Pauer, p.129) "mentions a professor
                    who filled the stomach of a dog with boiling water. The animal died in four
                    hours. (Par. 5616, Royal Commission). Dr. de Noë Walker reports an experiment
                    which produced inflammation in the eyes of various dogs and lambs, partly by
                    chemical irritation, partly by drawing a linen thread through the transparent
                    cornea of the eye." After that, the experimenter "gave the poor creature no
                    rest, either by day or night, for their sleep would have disturbed his
                    observations; and when the injuries began to heal he again inflicted them."
                    (Par. 1727, Royal Commission).
                Dr. Brunton"s experiments on cats are then quoted by Baron Weber. "He expressly
                    confesses in his examination that all these cats were brought to him secretly by
                    dealers, who, of course, had stolen them from the London streets and houses.
                    Among the cats thus tortured to death, how many have been the pets of some
                    woman"s solitary and joyless old age?" ... "The description in the Report
                    (p.351) of the usual apparatus for the torture of warm-blooded animals also made
                    a very painful impression. Three of these so-called dog-holders are especially
                    made use of, the Czermak, the Brunter and the Bernard. They are all so far alike
                    that  they first fasten the dog down, then he
                    is screwed quite tight to the iron machine, his muzzle is tied up and a curved
                    piece of iron is screwed down upon his nose until the unfortunate animal encased
                    in hard iron cannot make the slightest movement... All these vivisectors," Baron
                    Weber continues, "in their examination before the Commission, affirmed
                    emphatically that physiologists throughout the world were all humane, feeling
                    people, tender-hearted angels, and that not one of them could reconcile it to
                    his conscience to torture an animal unnecessarily. Only one of the
                    vivisectors—and this one a German, Professor Klein of Vienna—had the courage (or
                    the cynicism) to speak the truth honestly. "I think that with regard to an
                    experimenter, a man who conducts special research and performs an experiment, he
                    has no time, so to speak, for thinking what will the animal feel or suffer." He
                    repeats this confession in par. 3562. Baron Weber then goes on as follows:—
                "What do we learn from all the experiments, carried out with such shameful
                    cruelty, which have been unveiled before the judgment seat of the British
                    public? In any case we learn that a large proportion of vivisectors have lost
                    all trace of humanity and conscience, and these men treat animals in a high
                    state of sensitiveness, and sometimes gifted with great intelligence, as if they
                    were merely objects of scientific curiosity, merely subjects for experiments, of
                    whose unutterable pain and agony not the least consideration need be taken."
                A little further on he significantly adds: "Precisely that stiff-necked
                    opposition shown by the leaders of the medical profession in our country to the
                    introduction of any laws for the protection of their victims makes it as
                        clear as day that there exists a great necessity for insisting on
                        them." Certainly if the outside public will not stir to aid the
                    victims, their lot is hopeless indeed!
                "Eye-witnesses assure us that the dogs, when fastened  down ready for torture, and while being screwed into
                    the iron apparatus, invariably lick the hands of their executioners as if they
                    would beg for mercy!"
                Such are the facts: such is the practice whose opponents are laughed at as
                    sentimentalists and faddists!
                I know there are many people—probably the majority—who take what I call the
                        arithmetical view of right and wrong; that is, the
                    theory—implied rather than formulated—that if from so much direct wrong to one
                    being, so much good to another being is achieved, the one sum cancels the other
                    if equal, and that the difference represents the actual loss or gain if the sums
                    be unequal. Now as a matter of fact, I cannot find that there is even apparent
                    profit of this kind from vivisection. Claude Bernard himself says: "Our hands
                    are empty of results, though our mouths are full of legitimate promises for the
                    future."
                But granted that there were such apparent profit from this crime; I
                    should still deny that anything was gained, in the long run, even physically, to
                    set against the awful moral degradation involved; for pain and pleasure are not
                    mere abstract signs of quantity or number, of which one can be taken from the
                    other, leaving a simple and indifferent plus or minus
                    behind them.
                We cannot take one from the other. They remain eternally separate
                    and self-existing facts. Try to subtract so much pain in the animal (call it A)
                    from so much pleasure in men—or for that matter, in other animals—(call it B).
                    Take A from B, and what is the result? Incoherence, absurdity. The question has
                    no real meaning. As well might we try to give a reasonable answer to the
                    familiar old problem: If a ship 30 feet long, by 10 feet broad, has a mast 30
                    feet high, and weighs 20 tons, what is the Captain"s name?
                If, I repeat, A and B represent mere abstract numbers or
                        quantities of the same nature or kind, B minus A would give an
                    intelligible result or value (call it C) in terms of A and B. But when we deal
                    with unlike terms, when we deal with in-  destructible realities and experiences instead of
                    abstract quantities, mental confusion is the only result obtained by treating
                    these things mathematically. Instead of the annihilation of a plus
                    quantity by a minus quantity, we find that A and B (representing
                    sensations) never reduce each other to non-existence whatever be
                    their relative amounts. They are in their nature independent, and in their
                    results eternal. And this is sober practical fact, while the arithmetical theory
                    of the matter is fantastic and imaginary, as surely no clear thinker can
                    deny.
                Pain suffered is pain suffered, and no pleasure of others can ever cancel or
                    diminish that amount by one hairsbreath. This truism is denied by inference, by
                    those who would set the welfare of men against the pain of animals (or the
                    welfare of many men against the pain of one man) and bring out a triumphant
                        plus quantity of good at the end. We may do our little
                    subtraction sums to all eternity, and we do not alter the fact of the
                        extremity of any individual suffering, and surely it is clear that
                    there is no suffering except individual suffering. A mass does not
                    experience pain or pleasure, in any sense but that which implies the separate
                    experience of the individuals composing it. Even the pain of sympathy is
                    suffered by each person separately, and it is surely evident that since pain in
                    one organism cannot be balanced against pleasure in another
                    organism, no amount of joy can ever lessen by one pang the actual irrevocable
                    agony endured by any particular individual—heaven itself could not wipe out that
                    agony or make it not to have been. In short, sensation and experience cannot
                    reasonably be treated as if one were weighing a mass of sugar against another
                    mass of sugar and deciding in favour of the mass that weighed the most.
                Granted, therefore, that we did reap some physical advantage from
                    the anguish of a creature (animal or human), I should still deny that any real
                    gain can be thus achieved in the general welfare (putting aside the moral
                    question for a moment) because of this non-mathematical quality of sensation and
                         consciousness. And again, from another
                    point of view, I should deny it, as emphatically as I should deny that anything
                    was gained by a murderer who became a millionaire by his crime. His millions
                    would make him, in all things worth having in life, poorer than the poorest.
                    And, by the same inexorable law, a society that deliberately elected to try and
                    escape from the natural consequences of its own sins and its evil conditions,
                        not by repentance and sounder living, but by the cowardly
                    torture of the weakest of living creatures, so far from gaining anything for
                    itself would lose incalculably, in the long run, through the defiance of its
                    best instincts. For what miracle is going to prevent such national crime against
                    the helpless from lowering the national conscience, from weakening the
                    sympathies and ties that bind society together, from blunting and defacing all
                    the generous and protective impulses of mankind? And by what miracle is a people
                    whose instincts of aggression and cruelty are thus stimulated, to avoid the
                    tendency to social strife—and if the tendency be not unchecked—to corruption and
                    disaster, physical and moral? All that tends to make the principle of
                    vivisection accepted by the nation, tends, also, as night follows morning, to
                    make the principle of enforced vicarious sacrifice accepted and
                    justified, and thus to destroy the sentiments which help to make society even
                    possible, and a fortiori, those which help to
                    make it better and happier. Besides this general influence for evil, the
                    practice (assuming that it brought us important knowledge), would also have this
                    particular effect: that the cures, or rather, palliatives discovered by its
                    means, would tempt people to go on neglecting to seek the true causes of their
                    diseases; to go on sinning, and clinging to their errors and abuses, allowing
                    these to grown more firmly rooted in the habits, the heredity and the prejudices
                    of the race, and therefore always more hopeless of radical cure. "For sin and
                    stupidity need not be expiated," we should tacitly assure ourselves; "our
                    professional torturers  can easily cut up a few
                    more thousand cats and dogs and rabbits, till they discover how to enable us to
                    make brutes and fools of ourselves with impunity. In fact, if cats and dogs
                    won"t yield the secret, is there not plenty of clinical material in our
                    hospitals? The day is happily past for sentimental squeamishness on these
                    subjects. Good heavens! am I to be expected to suffer while there
                    are hospital patients to be experimented upon? (of course under proper
                    supervision and never without a special license.) In the interests of science
                    and of US—why not? Oh! of course some fussy agitator must needs spring up—even
                    in these enlightened days—and ask: "If utility to the majority be the only test,
                    is there anybody who should be held exempt? Where are we to draw
                    the line?" "But why draw the line at all, oh well-meaning enthusiast?—except, of
                    course, at ME!"
                Such is, in sober fact, the nature of the logic on which vivisection now rests
                    and the direction in which that logic is rapidly carrying us. It is a
                    discouraging reflection that the dread of what it may lead to rather than a
                    sense of justice or of pity, will be the leading motive for reform in the minds
                    of many. But whatever the motive, it is to be hoped that a determined effort,
                    not merely controversial but political and practical may be made to
                    resist the ever-increasing tendency to this kind of research, and that England,
                    who has prided herself on being the first to succour the oppressed, may cease to
                    tolerate, in her statute book, a law to charter cruelty towards the defenceless,
                    be the object what it may.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II.
                IN making this appeal to the justice and the pity of mankind for those
                    who cannot plead for themselves, I feel weighted down by a sense of the tragic
                    importance of the subject, not for the victims alone, but also for the
                    oppressors. I am conscious of the extreme difficulty of making clear the deeply
                    momentous character of our relations with the animal world, a subject which
                    people have been taught , from their very infancy, by precept and example, to
                    consider trivial. I am perplexed by the problem of how to put forth the claims
                    and how to urge the rights of creatures who have been treated almost as if they
                    had no claims and no rights: as if our absolute power over them carried with it
                    the justification for its abuse. The difficulty is peculiar to this subject, for
                    if an attempt be made to obtain redress for ill-treated human beings, however
                    apathetic and callous people may be about the evil, at least nobody professes to
                    justify it: nobody assures us that if only a sufficient amount of good to others
                    may be achieved by tormenting a man, woman, or child, such cruelty is perfectly
                    right and ought to be sanctioned by law. 
                    People say perhaps: "All exaggeration," or "Very wrong, only how is one to stop
                    it?" but at least nobody says: "Very right, that is just as it ought to be." On
                    the other hand, if one pleads for ill-used animals who can"t so much as cry out
                    for justice, people do not even say: "It"s wrong:" on the contrary, they say "It
                    is quite right, if we can get anything for ourselves out of the creature"s
                    anguish."
                In the case of men, it is enough to prove that the wrong has been done; further
                    pleading is superfluous; in the case of animals it is not by any means enough to
                    prove them wronged. One has also to set to work to prove that it is wrong
                        to wrong them. One has laboriously to prove a truism. Now where is
                    one to go for proofs of a moral truism, except to the conscience of mankind? To
                    that tribunal, then, I bring the cause of the creatures tortured now in our
                    country in the name of science.
                In the preceding chapter, I have quoted evidence, in the words of the torturers
                    themselves, for all that I assert as to the fact of the torture. At present I am
                    dealing with the moral aspect of the question, and am trying to cope with the
                    stupendous difficulty just noted: of appealing to the intellect and conscience
                    of my readers in such a way that they must recognise, in all its
                    profound significance, the relation of this subject to our whole moral sense,
                    and our whole moral code, with its consequent influence on our destiny as a
                    people capable of progress, and on all that such progress implies in human
                    happiness and peace.
                It is no mere fanciful relation that I point out between this question and all
                    other questions of right and wrong. It is a relation so close, and intimate as
                    to have arrived, as I said before, at the position of a truism. Now truisms are
                    always difficult to prove, because there is nothing stronger than themselves
                    that one can adduce to support them. A truism that is not recognised as such, is
                    almost an obstruction. Merely to state it ought to carry conviction, after the
                    fashion of an axiom in geometry. But if it does not carry
                    conviction, what can be said to explain and justify it? If I state that the whole is greater than the half, and somebody
                    disputes it, what can I say to convince him?
                Now I base my creed in this matter on what I regard as a moral truism, viz:
                        It is wrong to establish a system of research by means involving or
                        permitting the torture of sentient creatures, and it is wrong to do this
                        either by active participation in the deed, or by consent to the law which
                        sanctions it, no matter what the object of such torture may be. Such
                    is my truism. If the reader disputes it, my task is a heavy one, and I cannot
                    convince him directly, if at all; I can only induce him to convince
                        himself by trying to support his own position without arriving
                    at a logical absurdity, which he is obliged to recognise as an absurdity, if he
                    be honest, or without finding himself forced by his own reasoning to support, at
                    the same time, a conclusion that his reason and moral sense repudiate.
                Let us take his position and examine it. He disputes my truism, so his position
                    is (roughly) this: "It is not wrong to establish a system of
                    research involving the torture of sentient creatures, provided physical good to
                    the human species may be expected from such research." The position is, at any
                    rate, clear and logical within itself; the sort of position that one could
                    imagine taken up by a cultivated devil.*
                    If it were taken up by cultivated devils only, there
                    would be comparatively little to regret, for the views of such persons carry
                    little influence compared with those of the well-disposed and conscientious. It
                    is when perilous principles are held by good men and true, that we have
                    everything to fear. Probably many, if not most of our vivisectors belong to
                        * 
                            "All cruelty is sin. It is the essence of all wrongs, the marrow of
                                every crime, the delight of evil men, and the chief attribute of
                                devils."
                            —HARRY BENSON.
                        
                            "When the angel of pity is driven from the heart, when the fountain
                                of tears is dry, the soul becomes a serpent crawling in the dust of
                                a desert."
                            —Colonel Ingersoll.
                        
                            "That the best Teacher does not wish us to increase in knowledge
                                through sin and cruelty needs no demonstration."
                            "Journal of Zoophily." Philadelphia, Pa. Aug. 1894, Vol. III. No.
                                8.
                        
                     this class, and for that very reason they do
                    more harm to their fellow-men than if they were, by original nature, evil and
                    ruthless. Now if, (as they hold) it is not wrong to torture a sentient creature
                    for the good of the highly superior "others," by what special clause are we to
                    exempt from such torture a particular class of sentient creatures, viz., those
                    that happen to be human? If mere power of feeling is not sufficient to give them
                    claims upon our mercy, what is it that does justly give them that
                    claim? How will the disputer of my truism rescue his fellow men and women from
                    the category of vivisectible beings under which his proposition, (in disputing
                    mine), places them? He will be forced to make some special provision in order to
                    withdraw them from that dangerous position. But how is this to be logically
                    done? Take a particular case. After an important vivisection of a dog, which (we
                    will assume) gives hopes of a valuable discover, it is still impossible to be
                    sure that what is true of a dog is also true of a man, for it has been found
                    again and again that the results of experiments on animals are extremely
                    misleading as to the human constitution, and at best, there can be no certainty
                    except by actual experiment. Now here is a poor, forlorn, degraded, worthless
                    human being; he has come to the hospital for treatment, he is in the hands of
                    the doctor who is greatly excited and interested at the hope of a discovery. Why
                    not make use of this otherwise useless patient to test the experiment,
                    previously made on the dog, and perhaps do good to thousands of more valuable
                    human beings at his expense? Nature works by sacrifice; why should not man
                    follow her example in a good cause? Now unless my truism is a
                    truism; unless it is wrong deliberately and systematically to
                    torture any creature capable of suffering, for any object
                        whatsoever (except with his own consent for his own ultimate
                    healing), I see no good reason why that doctor should not use that
                    man for his scientific ends, or the ends of humanity, as the learned gentleman
                    would doubtless express it. Worthless, indeed positively harmful as such a human
                    being is to  his fellows, there
                        must be some principle other than that of immediate utility,
                    that is the real ground for exempting him from torture, if exempted he is to be.
                    It is not his moral worth, for he has none; it is not his spiritual dignity, for
                    he is spiritually degraded. What then is it, but his capacity for pain that
                    stays our hand? And have animals no sense of pain, O disputer of my truism?
                Let us examine the nature of the vague unformulated claims to exemption from
                    torture which a man possesses in the eyes of the majority of his fellows. He is
                    a moral being? Perhaps, but what is that to the point? He is an intellectual
                    being? Occasionally, but has that to do with the question? He has
                    hopes of heaven, of a future life? Unproven, but grant it, and grant also what
                    is also unproven, that animals can claim none of these attributes; again I ask,
                    what is all this to the point? We are talking of physical torture, pure and
                    simple, not of moral worth or intellectual endowments.*
                If a man can suffer, he is desperately concerned in the question of torture,
                    whatever be his spiritual estate, and if an animal can suffer—? How is the
                    conclusion to be evaded? Is not that poor, speechless, pleading, trusting
                    creature at least as desperately concerned? And if we claim moral rank above
                    that of the most degraded savages, how is it possible to defend the systematic
                    infliction of anguish upon our dependents? Would that I could make the utter
                    inconsequence of the ordinary reasoning on this subject as obvious to others as
                    it seems to myself. It is a point of fundamental importance, and therefore I
                    dwell upon it. I would clear away, if I could, all the weedy tangle of ideas
                    that crowd round the essential question, as I would drag * ...
                            "The question as to whether they" (
                                    id est
                                    i.e.
                                , animals) "are higher or lower than man is wholly
                                irrelevant."
                            —James Stanley Little.
                        
                            —"The question is not can they think—but can they suffer?
                            JEREMY BENTHAM.
                        
                     away the rough grass and moss from some
                    precious inscription which one cannot read, because it has become covered with
                    these irrelevant growths.
                After all, as soon as these confused ideas are dispersed, the matter
                    becomes strangely simple.
                It is man"s capacity to suffer that gives him a claim to human
                    justice and mercy.* Who would want
                    either, if he could never be hurt, physically or mentally? Does the stone shrink
                    and ache if one kicks and cuts it?
                And does not this consideration give us an absolutely clear and rational
                    principle by which the rights of men and of animals can be decided?
                If we torture an animal and a man, they both feel it. It may perhaps take rather
                    more to make an animal feel a certain amount of pain than it takes to make a man
                    feel that same amount (though this is not so universal or so well-established as
                    people suppose), but obviously they both can suffer and suffer
                        atrociously.†
                But now take the case of killing. Suppose we kill a man and an
                    animal by the same process, and both instantaneously and painlessly. (This
                        can be done, and animals might be killed without their knowing
                    anything about it, in every town in the kingdom, if we would take the trouble to
                    adopt Dr. Richardson"s simple plan of a lethal chamber).†
                Neither the man nor the animal suffers physical pain when he is
                    killed in that instantaneous fashion. And the animal * 
                            "A good man will take care of his horses and dogs, not only while
                                they are young, but when old and past service. We ought certainly
                                not to treat living beings like shoes and household goods, which,
                                when worn out with use, we throw away."
                            —PLUTARCH.
                        
                    † It takes less to make a
                        sensitive man than a callous man suffer keenly, yet that fact would not
                        excuse us in torturing either.
                    †
                            "Man should be the Law of the animals, not their Tormentor. He may
                                destroy those that are noxious, but not needlessly kill the
                                harmless. Above all he must torture none, for that is gross
                                barbarity."
                            —TALMUD BABA MEJIA. 32-6.
                        
                     suffers no mental pain, for on
                    this lethal system he cannot know that his life is to be cut short. He simply
                    goes to sleep and never wakes up. He had no far-reaching plans and hopes, no
                    possibilities of development, or spiritual growth; none of those infinite and
                    intricate ties and projects, those complex feelings and affections which bind a
                    human being, even when miserable, to existence. Now the man man
                        does suffer pain and injury in being forced to leave all this,
                    to have his career cut short, his liberty taken from him, his possible
                    development checked. Obviously, therefore, the killing of the man is a great,
                    and indeed, an incalculable injury, while the killing of the animal cannot
                    possibly be regarded in the same light, however much one might, on other
                    grounds, disapprove of the action. For the death of the animal caused it no
                    mental pain or loss and no physical suffering; it may even have saved it
                    suffering, for the creature must have died sometime, probably in a manner less
                    happy. Now although I believe that we are all making a terrible mistake in
                    devouring animals, and that, in course of time, the human race will come to see
                    its mistake and alter its habits, yet it seems the height of absurdity to place
                    the killing and the torture of animals on the same level. We make the
                    distinction clearly enough in the case of our own species, where, in fact, the
                    distinction is far less marked. The object of ignoring the enormous difference
                    where animals are in question, is, of course, to afford shelter for vivisection
                    and for the torturing kinds of sport behind the ingrained practice of
                    flesh-eating. 
                If one desires to protect a cruelty, one need not go far to find the means. Man
                    is easily convinced of what he wishes to believe.
                It has been urged that animals, after all, do not suffer very acutely, and that
                    they are spared the horrors of anticipating their martyrdom. Let us hope that
                    there is some slight mitigation to the awful anguish which they are
                    called upon to endure; but alas! those who have studied animals closely are
                    unanimous in asserting that the more they learn  about their nature and habits, the more appallingly like ourselves do they
                    find them to be; and the more they become aware that terror and apprehension are
                    among their keenest sufferings. It would be a relief indeed, knowing what I do
                    of the way in which these gentle sensitive creatures are treated in
                    physiological laboratories, if I could think they feel little, but alas, I am
                    forced, against my will, to see in them beings who not only suffer physical
                    anguish, but who hope and fear, love and hate, sorrow and enjoy, with
                    astonishing keenness; each little mind and each poor little heart filled with
                    sentiments and affections, strangely, cruelly like our own. The thought indeed
                    is terrible, when we remember how we treat these fellow-creatures, but it cannot
                    be honestly escaped. It must be because people do not observe or know animals
                    that they can think of them—yes, and the most despised of them—otherwise than as
                    little brothers, and if we only will, as little friends.* There is a book by Mrs. Brightwen,
                    called "Wild Nature won by Kindness," that everyone would be the wiser for
                    having read. The writer has been for many years an invalid, and she beguiled her
                    hours of pain by making friends with the birds and wild creatures that live in
                    her garden. The stories which she * 
                            "The researches of Lubbock in regard to ants, of Garner as concerning
                                monkeys, have, with many cognate investigations into the habits and
                                attributes of the lower animals, taught us something of modesty. We
                                find that these creature approximate much more nearly to us than we
                                had imagined; we find, too, that in no inconsiderable total of
                                instances, animals possess particular attributes, moral and
                                intellectual, which, judging them from our own arbitrary standpoint,
                                transcend in excellence the collateral attributes in man.... It
                                might be profitable to remind ourselves that because we hold the
                                lower creation in bondage, we have made out no case for our
                                superiority. In the history of nations, communities and individuals,
                                it is far more ofter the lower that dominates the higher than
                                    vice-versa; those finer
                                qualities and sensibilities which our moralists, philosophers and
                                poets teach us are the highest attributes of man, are, as a rule,
                                passports to suffering and subjection, rather than to happiness and
                                dominance."
                            —JAMES STANLEY LITTLE "The Gospel of Larger Love" (Library Review,
                                Dec. 1892).
                        
                     tells of these innumerable animals—of their
                    astonishing intelligence, their devotion to her, their gratitude (one pet bird
                    used to try to feed her with meal-worms as a proof of its affection), are
                    wonderful, and will reveal to anyone who has not happened to have opened up this
                    fascinating subject, what an exciting, emotional, dramatic world exists at our
                    very doors, and how terribly we humans have abused the power that we have over
                    these little creatures, who would be so ready to trust us if only we would stop
                    our everlasting treachery and massacre and torture.*
                But this is a digression, though not really irrelevant, for I desired to point
                    out that animals are, like ourselves, individuals, with individual
                    characters and modes of feeling; and that they suffer through their affections
                    as well as through their senses.†
                    * 
                            
                                "Earth groans beneath the burden of a war
                                Waged with defenceless innocence, while he
                                Not satisfied to prey on all around,
                                Adds tenfold bitterness to death by pangs
                                Needless, and first torments ere he devours."
                                 * * * * * *
                                "Ye, therefore, who love mercy, teach your sons
                                To love it too. The spring-time of our years
                                Is soon dishonoured and defiled in most
                                By budding ills, that ask a prudent hand
                                To check them. But alas! none sooner shoots
                                If unrestrained, into luxuriant growth,
                                Than cruelty, most dev"lish of them all.
                                Mercy to him that shows it, is the rule
                                And righteous limitation of its act,
                                By which Heav"n moves in pard"ning guilty man;
                                And he that shows none, being ripe in years,
                                And conscious of the outrage he commits,
                                Should seek it and not find it, in his turn,"
                            
                            —"THE TASK."—Cowper.
                        
                    † Robert Louis Stevenson"s
                        passionate love of animals and detestation of vivisection is well known. In
                        speaking of the dog, he says: "And yet more idle and if possible more
                        unintelligent has been the attitude of his express detractors; those who are
                        very fond of dogs, "but in their proper place"'; who say poo" fellow, poo"
                        fellow," and are themselves poorer; who whet the knife of the
                        vivisectionist, or heat his oven; who are not ashamed to admire the
                        creature"s "instinct," and flying far beyond folly have dared to resuscitate
                        the theory of animal machines."
                     There is heart-rending terrible evidence, on
                    this point. All life is one in nature, though infinite in variety. Our relation
                    to the animals is a strangely close one, and indeed it is the very men who now
                    demand sentient victims for their researches who have shown us how astonishingly
                    close that relationship is. That animals suffer in anticipation has been proved
                    again and again. I will quote one paragraph from an account given by Dr.
                        Hoggan* of his early experience as
                    an assistant in the laboratory of a great experimental physiologist.† He says: "During three campaigns,
                    amidst the horrors of way, I have witnessed many harsh sights, but I think the
                    saddest sight I have ever witnessed was when the dogs were brought up from the
                    cellar to the laboratory for sacrifice. Instead of appearing pleased with the
                    change from darkness to light, they seemed seized with horror as soon as they
                    smelt the air of the place, divining apparently their approaching fate. They
                    would make friendly advances to each of the three or four persons present, and
                    as far as eyes, ears and tail could make a mute appeal for mercy eloquent, they
                    tried in vain."
                Dr. Charles Bell Taylor quotes this statement of Dr. Hoggan"s in an address
                    entitled, "Vivisection: is it justifiable?" and adds that Dr. Allix, the
                    well-known French veterinary surgeon, has said: "I have known dogs die of sheer
                    terror in anticipation of their doom before the vivisector had time to commence
                    the operation."
                We have arrived then, thus far: that the claim of every living thing to exemption
                    from torture for the good of others rests simply upon its power to suffer:
                        not upon its name and * In a letter to the Morning Post, Feb. 2nd,
                        1875.
                    † Claude Bernard.
                     address, or the number of its legs, or the
                    presence or absence of hair and feathers, of watch-chains or frock-coats, or
                    Greek verbs or benevolent sentiments. On none of these virtues and graces does a
                    rational claim to immunity from torture rest. They are entirely beside the
                    question; and it is clear that if they are beside the question, the claim of
                    animals is exactly as good or as bad as the claim of men. Either we let off the
                    man because he can feel the pain, or we let him off because of the utterly
                    inconsequent considerations enumerated above: for instance, his Greek verbs or
                    his moral sentiments, or if you will, all the attributes that distinguish him
                    from animals.* To exempt him on that
                    score is about as intelligent as to exempt a man from taxation or capital
                    punishment because his name is Brown, or because his brother likes cheese! It is
                    incoherent, insane: and it could not possibly be adduced as an argument except
                    by the strong against the weak.† Indeed
                    it closely resembles the reasoning of the cele- * In the muddleheadedness which
                        allows us to grant exemptions and privileges on entirely irrelevant grounds,
                        we resemble the Goths and Vandals in the early ages of European History.
                        Guizot says of the Visigoth law (the best in all the Barbarian codes) that
                        its punishments were surprisingly mild considering the brutal state of
                        society: "for free men, that is to say, for whenever slaves or
                        even labourers are in question, cruelty reappears .... the law abounds in
                        tortures and in corporal punishments for them, but for freemen, Franks, and
                        even Normans it is extremely moderate."—(GUIZOT. "The History of
                        Civilization." Vol. I., page 15.)
                    †
                            "Humanity to Animals is a Duty reposing on the same foundation as the
                                claims of Man to Humanity."
                            —JEREMY BENTHAM.
                        
                     brated wolf in the fable who sought reasons
                    for devouring the lamb and was not very particular as to their quality.
                Further: we have seen that those intellectual and moral qualities through which
                    man can suffer and be injured, in a manner peculiar to himself, form the
                    foundation of a further set of distinctive human claims and rights.
                    Just as the lowest insect has rights above those of a stone on the simple ground
                    that it has feelings which the stone has not, so the man has claims above those
                    of animals on the same simple ground: that he has feelings different from
                    theirs. Where these differ his rights differ, but not by one hair"s-breadth
                    beyond. In other words: rights are co-extensive with the range of
                        consciousness.
                There are many, I am glad to know, who would greatly extend this principle, which
                    must be regarded as involving merely the barest justice from the
                    human to the dumb creation, the pound of flesh, the simple bond, without one
                    drop of blood. While fully admitting the difficulty, in this still savage
                    community, of carrying into practice a principle involving a little
                        more than bare justice, I still assert that there is this
                    higher stage, to which the human race must some day attain if it is to develop
                    morally. The day will surely dawn when man will overcome the savage in him so
                    far as to hold that killing except in self-defence is unlawful: when he will
                    live as the friend and brother instead of the enemy and destroyer of those who
                    lie at his mercy. Granting that this is, for the present, extremely difficult or
                    beyond average human nature, it is good and wholesome to hold it before us an
                    ideal for the future. It ought at least to make us see how imperative is that
                    lesser measure of bare just which, alas, we are still so far from having
                    accorded to those luckless ones who have to find in us their Providence.*
                * It is encouraging to notice how
                        often a happier future is foreshadowed and hinted at, in the writings of
                        many of the finest of our writers and reformers. In the notes to this volume
                        many great names have already been quoted. There are many more that might be
                        added. Miss Cobbe gives an account, in her autobiography, of her last
                        interview with Alfred Tennyson. He discoursed much on the hatefulness of
                        scientific cruelty. "He said to me," Miss Cobbe adds, ""Good-bye. Fight the
                        good fight! Go, fight the good fight!" I saw him no more; but I shall do his
                        bidding, please God, to the end."Lord Shaftesbury was, of course,
                        also well know as a hater of vivisection.The poet Robert Browning
                        wrote to Miss Cobbe as follows: "You have heard I take an equal interest
                        with yourself in the effort to suppress vivisection. I dare not so honour my
                        wishes and prayers as to put them for a moment beside your noble acts; but
                        this I know, I would rather submit to the worst of deaths, so far as pain
                        goes, than have a single dog or cat tortured on the pretence of sparing me a
                        twinge or two.For the rest, I shall indeed rejoice if that abominable
                        and stupid cruelty of pigeon-shooting is put a stop to. The other detestable
                        practice vivisection, strikes root, I fear; but God bless whoever tugs at
                        it."
                
                How many more centuries of misery and strife and avoidable anguish are to pass
                    over this distracted globe, before men have learnt the apparently simple truth
                    that cruelty and wrong do not lead to happiness and peace? How much
                    dire experience will be necessary to convince us that our deeds and thoughts
                    bear fruit after their own kind, and not after some entirely different kind, and
                    that cruelty, be its purpose what it may, will not and cannot bring
                    blessings and benefits to the race that practices it. The moral law is stern and
                    just. It recognises none of the distinctions that we find so convenient. Cruelty
                    is always cruelty, be its victim man or beast, and it bears the fruit of cruelty
                    none the less surely because the sufferers lack power to protest or friends to
                    defend them. The penalty, if sometimes apparently slow in coming, is certain and
                    inevitable. It is as inevitable as that oxygen and hydrogen, when brought
                    together in certain proportions under certain conditions unite to form
                    water.
                It is not possible to commit a cruel action without its having some
                    effect upon the mind and moral consciousness: neither is it possible for a cruel
                    practice to be carried on systematically, and as an organized work, without its
                    profoundly affecting the moral balance and condition, not only of those
                    immediately involved, but of the consenting State and people  whose acquiescence has been bought by promises of
                    profit for themselves. Surely we need no ghost come from the grave to tell us
                    that the wages of cruelty is suffering and moral degeneration in some form or
                    another, and that those who seek to hack and hew the secret of health and
                    happiness out of living, agonizing beings, are but adding bitterness and anguish
                    to the lot of man, tempting him to evil, obscuring the teachings of his
                    conscience and preparing for him the agony that must some day overtake him, when
                    at last his very misery forces him to realize what it is that he has done.*
                Some day assuredly man will recognize with amazement and shame the cowardice and
                    savagery of his conduct towards those unoffending creatures, who ought to have
                    found in his greater power and cleverness, their hope and their protection. It
                    has been said that there is no moral suffering to equal that of remorse; and
                    surely such an awakening to the nature of our deeds of cruelty—whether it be the
                    active cruelty of commission or the passive cruelty of apathy and consent—must
                    constitute, for the human mind, the condition which has been symbolized by the
                    idea of Hell.
                * 
                        "What we do know is that the influence of any action, of any movement
                            that is to say, must be eternal; and that moral laws are the most potent
                            and dominant of all laws. And in this sense, since the moral law must
                            have sway over all others, and because of all things beautiful, it is
                            the most beautiful, we must glory in the fact that the sins of the
                            fathers are visited upon the children, that those sins may burn
                            themselves out in suffering; for it is by suffering alone that
                            deviations from the laws of the higher charity can be effaced, and the
                            condition of happiness attained."
                        —JAMES STANLEY LITTLE.
                    
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III.
                AS, in the long run, all social movements and conditions are created by
                    the principles which man consciously or unconsciously adopts and reverences
                    (even though he may seem by his conduct to defy them) it is of the utmost
                    importance to see our way clearly as regards principles, and to base our appeal
                    for the animals on a doctrine that is at once true to our best moral instincts
                    and is sound and just and unassailable if tried by the severest intellectual
                    tests. And I hold that not only does the principle of the anti-vivisectionist
                    stand these tests triumphantly, if properly stated and understood, but that it
                    is impossible to defend the opposite position without arbitrarily throwing over
                    doctrines and sentiments that would be held unassailable and sacred in relation
                    to every other moral question.* I need
                    not point out that a practice which requires justification in that fashion,
                    cannot be said to be logically defensible. Yet, strange to relate,
                    vivisectionists are usually regarded as the party of science and enlightenment,
                        * 
                            "Vivisection has moral and spiritual, no less than physical
                                consequences."
                            "Animals" Rights."—H.S. SALT.
                        
                     and their opponents are laughed at, as the
                    party of "fad" and sentiment.
                Consider what a vast gap must be made in our code of ethics, in order to enable
                    us to advocate vivisection, with a light heart.
                Is it not an elementary principle of morality, to leave unmolested, if not to
                    actively protect the weak? Vivisection requires us to inflict upon them
                    unutterable anguish. Is not the possession of power accompanied by the
                    obligation not to abuse it:—and among the more generous of mankind,
                    does it not prompt to a special effort to shield and minister to the
                    defenceless? Yet the principle which justifies vivisection, urges us to select
                    the most defenceless of all, not for especial protection, but—for
                    torture! Surely there is some madness here!
                Whenever we find great cruelty, of the deliberate and cowardly and systematic
                    kind, there is, in fact, always a sort of madness. The Emperor Nero was mad when
                    had Christians covered with tar and set light to, in order that they might serve
                    as slowly-burning torches at his drunken festivals:—the anguish of these victims
                    of Imperial tyranny being provided in order to heighten the savage pleasure of
                    its momentary favourites. When one learns, by the testimony of history, how
                    drunken and insane the possession of absolute authority can make men not
                    apparently bad at heart (Nero and Caligula began their careers as public
                    benefactors), surely it behoves us to pause and examine our own conduct, in
                    relation to the beings to whom we stand exactly as the tyrants of the Roman
                    world stood to the helpless and despised of their subjects. Nay, our position is
                    still more absolutely despotic, for men and women can, at least, cry out against
                    their tyrants, and their sufferings may, at last, rouse their fellows to revolt
                    and to revenge,* but * The following extracts from
                            the Roman codes by which the conquered Provinces were governed will
                            serve to recall the conditions of life at that epoch for countless
                            millions, who have suffered and died without a sign—without raising a
                            voice in protest; for their sense of wrong was probably crushed by the
                            very awfulness of the wrong. It was not till long after the Roman Empire
                            was broken up, that the Peasants began to revolt.CONDITION OF
                            LABOURERS IN FRANCE."We order that labourers be attached to the
                            glebe in such a manner that they cannot be taken from it for a
                            moment."—Code Justianian."Let all fugitive labourers without any
                            distinction of sex, function, or condition be forced by the governors of
                            the provinces to return to the places where they were born."—Code
                            Justinian."If any labourer conceal himself or endeavour to leave
                            the estate where he lives, let him be considered as having wished
                            fraudulently to despoil his patron like a fugitive slave."—Code
                            Justinian.This condition of things, gradually modifying in
                            practice, continued in France till the time of Voltaire, whom it roused
                            to furious indignation. In England, we had freed ourselves much sooner.
                            Our revolts in speech and act were more frequent but less ferocious than
                            those of the French. For centuries we enjoyed comparative freedom while
                            our neighbours were either groaning under tyranny or engaged in
                            sanguinary struggles for freedom. The awful ferocity of the Peasants"
                            War, the Fronde and other risings of the oppressed, brought about a
                            reaction of feeling against them, terrified the people themselves, and
                            made them dread the horrors of civil war, even more than the miseries of
                            their lot. The steady, independent, but just and kindly spirit of the
                            English people was not theirs. They either submitted without protest, or
                            they rose to rebellion and behaved like wild beasts, or rather like
                            infuriated men. That is not the way to obtain liberty or rights, however
                            terrible may be our wrongs. Mere revenge is futile. Savagery and
                            cruelty, even when directed against the savage and the cruel, bring
                            neither peace nor progress, and true liberty can never be won by savage
                            wooing.
                     however shocking may be the abuse of
                        our advantage, we have nothing to fear from the revenge of
                    animals; they cannot so much as plead for mercy: they cannot contradict, though
                    suffering the pains of Hell itself, when some calm physiologist tells a reverent
                    world that their cries, and writhings, and shrieks are merely caused by a
                    "reflex action," and indicate pain no more than when "the keys of a piano are
                        struck."*
                It is high time that we realized our position in relation to our dependents, and
                    the tremendous temptation to which we * Lauder Brunton
                     are exposed, to take unfair advantage of the
                    opportunity, while basking in the happy conviction that, in the service of our
                    noble selves, we can do no wrong!
                Like Nero, made with supreme power, believing ourselves gods and all the lesser
                    creation ours to use and abuse, at pleasure, we may some day wake up to find
                    that we—highly respectable and benevolent and well-conducted as we may think
                    ourselves—have been, like Nero, in his insane egotism and self-love, infamous in
                    our savagery and ridiculous in the self-adoration with which we seek to justify
                    it.
                I do not apologise for speaking strongly, for I am not attacking individuals but
                    a principle. Vivisectors are but carrying out the doctrine that the public has
                    sanctioned. It is true that the public are absolutely ignorant of the nature of
                    the practice which they have legalized, yet they have legalized it,
                    and the responsibility lies, in great measure, with them. The education of our
                    race has been such as to teach us all to see, in our power over animals, an
                    invitation to use it in the pursuit of our own ends, irrespective of their
                    torments. The vivisector accepts this universal view, and carries it to its
                    logical conclusion. He is supposed to be working for the good of others, and so
                    is held justified. Unfortunately, a habit of confused thinking makes people jump
                    to the conclusion that a crime committed for others is not a crime,
                    since the motive is unselfish: a doctrine that would obviously allow us to
                    commit as many deeds of violence as we pleased—each for the
                    other—so that we should all enjoy the spoil, and none of us bear
                    the blame. This is, in fact, the sort of arrangement that some conscientious,
                    but not very clear-headed people contemplate with regard to the vivisection
                    question. If the vivisector tortures for the benefit of humanity,
                    not for himself, we conclude that he is benevolent, and that we may sign the
                    torture-warrant, with a clear conscience. The rabbit was not cut up, the dog was
                    not baked to death for us—certainly not: it was for the Others! It
                    is difficult to see how a highly conscientious people, with altruistic feelings,
                    would get on without those convenient and much esteemed Others!
                
                The vivisector, indeed, caricatures the general attitude of the public, and
                    reduces its principles to absurdity. Then he triumphantly appeals to those
                    principles, and justifies his own actions by pointing to the lesser cruelties
                    that are practised, every day, without a qualm. Out of a myriad wrongs we seek
                    to make a right.
                With a virtuous horror of inconsistency, the Public feels that it really cannot
                    deny the physiologist his victims. Does he not tell us they are absolutely
                    necessary? And merciful Powers! supposing we had to bear the consequences of our
                    own sins and follies! Supposing we had no hope of thrusting them on to the
                    shoulders of the lower creation, which, after all, was made for our use? For
                    goodness" sake, give the physiologist his victims, and let us hear no more of
                    this painful subject!
                It is surprising what a large number of persons have come to the conclusion, that
                    the human race really cannot manage to keep in decent health, without permitting
                    animals to be cut up alive. It is especially surprising, since those who take
                    this view are regarded as particularly enlightened, and one would therefore
                    expect them to consult facts and figures very carefully, before deciding that
                    all this torture has enabled, or is likely to enable mankind to resist disease
                    and to live more healthily. One would expect them to remember that vivisection
                    has been increasing simultaneously with our great improvements in ventilation,
                    sanitation, water supply, and so forth; that our power of coping with disease,
                    by these means, has vastly increased, and that therefore, if important
                    discoveries can be claimed for vivisection, these discoveries have been afforded
                    a splendid chance of producing their maximum of benefit, and of showing a vast
                    improvement in the general state of the public health. They might even expect to
                    get the credit of what is really due to the hygienically improved condition. Yet
                    what are the facts? I quote from  Dr.
                    Leffingwell, an American physician, whose articles were published in Scribner"s
                    Monthly and have since been republished.
                "I suppose," he says, "the opinion of the late Claude Bernard of Paris would be
                    generally accepted as that of the highest scientific authority on the
                    utility of vivisection in "practical medicine," but he tells me that it is
                    hardly worth while to make the inquiry. "Without doubt," he confessed, "our
                    hands are empty to day, although our mouths are full of legitimate promises for
                    the future." Was Claude Bernard correct in this opinion as to the "empty hands"?
                    If scientific evidence is worth anything, it points to the appalling conclusion
                    that, notwithstanding all the researches of physiology, the chief forms of
                    chronic disease exhibit to-day in England a greater fatality than thirty years
                    ago. In the following table I have indicated the average annual mortality per
                    million inhabitants, of certain diseases, first for the period of five years
                    from 1850 to 1854, and secondly, for the period of twenty-five years later, from
                    1875 to 1879. The authority is beyond question: the facts are collected from the
                    report to Parliament of the Registrar-general of England.
                        AVERAGE ANNUAL RATE OF MORTALITY IN ENGLAND.
                        CAUSES OF DEATH, PER ONE MILLION INHABITANTS.
                        
                            
                                Name of Disease.
                            
                            
                                During five years 1850-54
                            
                            
                                During five years 1875-79
                            
                        
                        
                            Gout
                            12
                            25
                        
                        
                            Aneurism
                            16
                            32
                        
                        
                            Diabetes
                            23
                            41
                        
                        
                            Insanity
                            29
                            57
                        
                        
                            Syphilis
                            37
                            86
                        
                        
                            Epilepsy
                            105
                            119
                        
                        
                            Bright"s Disease
                            32
                            182
                        
                        
                            Kidney Disease
                            94
                            114
                        
                        
                            Brain Disease
                            192
                            281
                        
                        
                            Liver Disease
                            215
                            291
                        
                        
                            Heart Disease
                            651
                            1,335
                        
                        
                        
                            Cancer
                            302
                            492
                        
                        
                            Paralysis
                            440
                            501
                        
                        
                            Apoplexy
                            454
                            552
                        
                        
                            Tubercular Disease and Diseases of respiratory organs
                            6,424
                            6,668
                        
                        
                            
                            
                            
                        
                        
                            Mortality from above diseases
                            9,026
                            10,994
                        
                    
                "What," asks Dr. Leffingwell, "are the effects here discernible of Bernard"s
                    experiments upon diabetes? of Brown-Séquard"s upon epilepsy and paralysis? of
                    Flint"s and Pavy"s upon diseases of the liver? of Ferrier"s researches upon the
                    functions of the brain? Let us appeal from the heated enthusiasm of the
                    experimenter to the stern facts of the statistician. Why, so far from having
                    obtained the least mastery over the malignant forces which seem forever to
                    baffle and elude our art, they are actually gaining upon us: every one of these
                    forms of disease is more fatal to-day in England than thirty years ago:"...
                "In 1879," adds Dr. Leffingwell, in a footnote, "the total mortality
                    in England was above the age of twenty from all causes whatsoever,
                    was 287,093. Of these deaths the number occasioned by the sixteen causes above
                    named, was 191,706, or almost exactly two-thirds."
                The improvement which has taken place in the total death-rate has come chiefly
                    from the lesser prevalence of zymotic diseases, which "no one to-day pretends to
                    cure," says Dr. Leffingwell, "while the organic diseases show a constant
                    tendency to increase." Nor must we forget, that this change for the worse has
                    occurred in the teeth of our improved sanitary conditions.
                Now, startling as these facts are, I would not conclude from them
                        alone that nothing has been gained by vivisectional research. It is
                    dangerous to jump to that conclusion from these figures, without knowing all the
                    circumstances and conditions of life, mental as well as physical, which marked
                    those two epochs. Nothing is definitely proved against the  utility of vivisection, but the figures show (to put
                    it mildly) that no very triumphant evidence of any great increase of power to
                    cope with disease can be adduced by the advocates of the practice. If
                        conditions had remained the same, then the case would have been clear
                    against the usefulness of vivisection: but as it is undeniable that there have
                    occurred great changes during these years, we are bound to admit that the
                    changes may have been, on the whole (in spite of improved
                    sanitation), sufficiently unfavourable to health, to overcome the good which,
                    let us assume, vivisection has been able to achieve. But if that is the case,
                    how appallingly evil must be the changes that have taken place in human
                    conditions since 1850! Unless vivisection is useless or actually misleading,
                    clearly those changes must have been disastrous in the extreme.
                We may observe here, that the practice of inoculation dates from about that
                    epoch, and that year by year, the inoculating treatment tends to increase and to
                    develop new "cures."
                There are now many persons who believe firmly that it is to this method of
                    introducing, into the very blood, unhealthy organic matter, that we owe the
                    increasing virulence of so many of our most terrible forms of blood-disease.
                    Professor William Tebb has written a book in which he brings together a mass of
                    remarkable evidence, tending to show that the recrudescence of leprosy all over
                    the world and in this country, is traceable to vaccination.* The vivisectional school pins its faith
                    to the method of inoculation, and it is to be feared that much blood-disease
                    will thus be engrafted on the human race, even in the event of certain immediate
                    cures being effected by the practice.
                It is, however, not my purpose to discuss the question of the utility of
                    vivisection, or of the dangers of being misled by it, nor to lay further stress
                    on the perils of inoculation. To the many who honestly believe that to prove
                    vivisection useful to man is to prove it justifiable, I merely desire to suggest
                    that it has by no means proved itself useful to man, in the long run, if such
                    facts as I have quoted are to be taken into considera- * The Recrudescence of Leprosy, by
                        Prof. William Tebb.
                     tion; and that, not only is its usefulness
                    unproved, but it has been accused of being positively harmful and dangerous to
                    the human race, not only morally (which seems to me self-evident) but also
                    physically. It would take volumes to discuss the evidence on this point, and all
                    I wish to attempt here, is to point out that no one ought to take the utility of
                    vivisection for granted, without examining the evidence on both sides. It is
                    perhaps scarcely possible, even then, for any non-professional person to come to
                    a very definite conclusion. That there has never been any important gain in
                    knowledge through vivisection is a large assertion, which would be extremely
                    difficult to prove from outside, whatever be the truth. The question is rather:
                    Has any important gain been made by vivisection that could not have been
                        made in any other way?—;and even if that should be answered in the
                    affirmative, we have still to ask (merely from the utility and non-moral point
                    of view): "Has vivisection on the whole and in the long
                        run enabled the human race to live healthier lives, and to be freer
                    from the worst kinds of disease than formerly? We have seen what answer official
                    statistics give to this question.
                If some special addition to technical be made, in one or two directions, at the
                    cost of enormous labour, and time, and thought, which would otherwise have been
                    given to post-mortem studies, or to gaining a wider medical experience and
                    knowledge of human nature, can the race be said to have gained by the dedication
                    of so many fine intelligences to vivisectional research? The vast amount of time
                    and ability expended on the work ought surely to be taken into account, in
                    balancing the advantages and disadvantages in this matter; and when we find a
                    man of such brilliant attainments and unimpeachable authority, in his
                    profession, as Professor Lawson Tait,*
                    vigorously * 
                            
                                "I do not believe that vivisection has helped the surgeon one
                                    bit, but I know that it has often led him astray."
                                —Lawson Tait.
                            
                        Doubtless men of science would consider it audacious indeed if a lay
                            person ventured to assert that at present science (at any rate
                            physiological science) is shallow in its method and its spirit. Yet
                            this, my conviction, I found the other day confirmed by Michelet.
                            
                                "The child disports himself, shatters, and destroys; he finds his
                                    happiness in undoing. And science, in its
                                    childhood, does the same. It cannot study unless it kills. The
                                    sole use which it makes of a living mind is, in the first place,
                                    to dissect it. None carry into scientific pursuits that tender
                                    reverence for life which Nature rewards by unveiling to us her
                                    mysteries."
                                —Michelet.
                            
                        
                     opposing vivisection, not on the
                    ground of its inhumanity, but on that of its uselessness and tendency to
                        mislead, it behoves us to be cautious indeed, before allowing
                    ourselves to be persuaded that vivisection has done real physical good to the
                    race, in the least degree proportional to the sacrifice of time and talent made
                    for it. Granted, for the moment, that such and such an operation, made possible
                    by vivisection, saves a life here and there, how many lives are lost that might
                    have been saved, and how many remain the victims of ailments that might have
                    been cured, had the physiologist spent his time and ability in a less narrow
                    field of study?
                A doctor so often fails, not from lack of actual technical knowledge, but from
                    lack of insight; perhaps through inability to fully realize the power of mental
                    states over the body, or from general absence of sympathy. And it is remarkable
                    how few medical men there are, who seem to lay any real stress upon hygienic
                    conditions. Yet, after all, it is these conditions that are really all-important
                    in the preservation of health in the individual, and still more in the race;
                    since, in the race, we find their cumulative results, in
                    constitutional hereditary features and tendencies. Nevertheless, doctors order
                    gallons of medicines, and sweep the heavens for causes and remedies that lie
                    under their very noses! How much greater would be the debt of gratitude owing by
                    man to his physicians, if only the latter would devote the talent and patience
                    that is now bestowed on torturing animals to studying the laws and the art of
                    life; to inducing men and women to live more 
                    reasonably and healthily; to understand their own natures, to train themselves
                    in self-control, to love fresh air and soap and water; to free themselves from
                    slavish habits, and unwholesome ideas; to cultivate serenity: to gain a hold
                    over their minds, so that they could minimize or overcome the tendency to worry,
                    and learn to economize their vitality; to concentrate their forces when needed,
                    and relax the strain when the moment came for rest:—in short, if the medical
                    profession would only turn a little more of their attention to teaching us the
                    real secrets of health and life, and enabling us to avoid disease, instead of
                    only trying to discover (generally in vain), how to cure it—they would deserve
                    the gratitude of their fellows for all time! And the result of their wisdom
                    would very soon show itself in diminishing disease, diminishing crime, and a
                    lowered death-rate. It is not necessary to point out what a vast amount of agony
                    to the poor defenceless animals would thus be spared:—surely a matter of some
                    importance even to the vivisector, who is always eager to assure us of his
                    humane sentiments and of his horror of inflicting suffering. As for those who
                    hold that torture for our own ends is cowardly and wrong, the abolition of
                    vivisection would lift a dark cloud from the horizon of life, and make faith in
                    human nature and in the upward progress of the race seem a little less
                    ridiculous and Utopian.
                And now let us consider the consequences of making a glaring exception in our
                    ethical code, in order to place animals outside the pale of human mercy. Let us
                    consider the effect upon human sentiment and conduct of proclaiming, when
                    animals are in question: "Evil, be thou my good: Wrong, be thou my right."
                I have already pointed out that the admission of these arbitrary exceptions
                    against animals has led to the making of other arbitrary exceptions against
                    human beings, when these were sufficiently helpless to make such action fairly
                    safe. If one may suspend one"s moral law in one case, it is  difficult to see why one may not suspend it in
                    another, on the same plea: 
                        videlicet
                        viz.
                    , the importance of the end to be gained. Now, if this principle of
                    vicarious sacrifice (which is the principle on which vivisection justifies
                    itself) is to become generally accepted among us, it is clear that security of
                    individual rights and individual liberty is doomed. If a man may be subjected to
                    injury and oppression, simply because his neighbours think they might be greatly
                    benefited thereby, and he is powerless to resist them, what becomes of the
                    freedom and rights for which so many of our ancestors have shed their blood, for
                    which so many of our contemporaries are now struggling?* Is it not obvious that to attack these
                    rights is to attack everything that is worth having in social life, and that
                    tyranny and chaos of the worst and most savage kind would inevitably follow
                    their destruction?
                What is it that constitutes the difference between the civilized and the savage
                        community?† Surely the protection
                    afforded to the weak against the strong: the right to remain unmolested so long
                    as no molestation of others be attempted. Take away these securities, resting
                    upon the general consent * 
                            "... Burghers of the 12th century would have spilled their hearts"
                                blood to have enjoyed with security some of the individual liberties
                                which we do not even think, so much are we accustomed to them."
                            —GUIZOT, "History of Civilization," p.402.
                        
                    † We must not forget that it is
                        never impossible to revert to savagery and slavery, and that if we lose
                        reverence for individual right—no matter how high our motive or how great
                        the hoped-for gain—then we have taken the direct road to slavery, let the
                        names and appearances of institutions and theories be fair as they may! The
                        following quotation may serve to remind us of the nature of slavery:—
                            "If a master was killed, all the slaves who were under the same roof
                                or not further from the house than the distance at which one could
                                hear a man"s voice, were to be without distinction condemned to
                                death. Those who in such a case sheltered a slave to save him, were
                                punished as murderers. If a master had ordered a slave to kill him,
                                and had been obeyed, the slave would be held culpable; the slave who
                                had not prevented his master from killing himself would be punished.
                                If a master had been killed in travelling, all who had remained with
                                him were put to death, and also those who had run away."
                            Montesquieu Esprit des Lois." Vol. II., pp.262- 3.
                        
                     of the community, and what do we find? Neither
                    more nor less than a state of savagery or of slavery.*
                In order to move further in the direction of civilization, and to retreat further
                    from savagery, what must we do? Obviously we must protect more
                    fully and more effectively the weak against the strong, right and liberty
                    against force and violence, (whether force and violence be the result of actual
                    muscle or of unjust social organisation): we must enlarge our circle of
                    protection, so that no sufferer can be shut out, no cruelty or injustice be
                    perpetrated merely because the victim happens to be defenceless. In a truly
                    civilized state, no being capable of suffering would be
                    defenceless: the whole people and their laws would be its defender.† "Bend the twig humanewards and the
                    world is safe," says some wise person.
                Now any practice that teaches men and women to think and feel in flat
                    contradiction to these principles, must redirect their thoughts and instincts
                    backwards towards savagery, and must make progress towards a higher civilization
                    less possible. I cannot see how that is to be denied. Every word or act that
                    helps to whet the barbarous impulses, which are still so easily roused in human
                    nature, hinders human progress. And it is, surely, our savage, not our civilized
                    impulses that are appealed to by the vivisector, who asks us to give him
                    sentient creatures to torture, in order that we may * 
                            "Slaves have been treated by the law exactly upon the same footing as
                                in England, for example, the inferior races of animals are still.
                                The day may come when the rest of the animal creation
                                may acquire those rights which could never have been withholden from
                                them but by the hand of tyranny."
                            "Principles of Morals and Legislation."—JEREMY
                                BENTHAM.
                        
                    † 
                            "Loving and tender treatment of beasts is the best touchstone of the
                                generosity of a man and of his worthiness and capacity to lead and
                                rule a people."
                            —JEWISH PROVERB.
                        
                     gain something for ourselves thereby.* If he made the appeal to a race of
                    savages, there would be nothing inconsistent in their acquiescence. Their theory
                    is (roughly) that might is right, and that if a man is strong enough to do a
                    deed, the deed is virtuous. They worship Force, in the person of their gods and
                    idols, and their heroes are strong of muscle rather than tender of heart. Among
                    such a community, vivisection would not be out of harmony with their philosophy.
                    But the civilized hold that the very meaning of civilization and morality is a
                        departure from those doctrines of might irrespective of right.
                    Our moral code begins by flatly contradicting that savage theory, and our
                    national religion professes to worship a God of Love, and to follow the teaching
                    of one who said "Blessed are the merciful—."
                Therefore, when to us the vivisector says "Give us animals for
                    torture for your sakes," we cannot rise up, with a light heart, as savages might
                    do, and feel that we are carrying out our national morality and our national
                    religion in replying: "Take what victims you desire, O physiologist, and win for
                    us comfort from their misery."
                * 
                        
                            "The fact is that man, though one person has two natures, a higher
                                and a lower, and pity, like much else that is good in him, is
                                according to the one and opposed to the other. It is therefore of
                                paramount importance in the interests of the race that pity should
                                be educated, fostered, protected, and strengthened, and the risk of
                                its being impaired in the search for Knowledge, or with a view to
                                relieve the aches and pains, or prolong the existence of men must be
                                odious to every thoughtful person, who has learned by experience how
                                hard it is to eschew evil and do good. Tamper with compassion, let
                                it be set at naught under the protection of English Law, license men
                                belonging to one of the most honourable of all professions to do
                                despite to it, and thus make the whole nation a party to the crime,
                                and one long step has been taken towards brutalizing the morals of
                                the people."
                            A race indifferent to cruelties has gone very far towards being
                                cruel, and the history not merely of slaves of Nero but of the Reign
                                of Terror in the last century, and of African tribes in this, show
                                very clearly what comes of that.
                        
                        —JOURNAL OF ZOOPHILY, Philadelphia, Pa. Aug. 1894. Vol.III, No.
                            8.
                    
                
                So far from this, we are forced to throw over every sanction of the morality that
                    we reverence, to deny our finer instincts, and every generous impulse, before we
                    can acquiesce in their demand. In short, every sentiment that is kind, and true,
                    and pitiful has to be arbitrarily put aside for the strange uses of this special
                    pleading, and for the time being, we must deny the very root and ground-work of
                    civilized existence. Of course, we resume our suspended sentiments, and reascend
                    our moral pedestals, with unabated dignity, as soon as this troublesome subject
                    can be thrust aside; but for the moment, the civilized has had to become savage,
                    the pitiful to become ruthless, and it must be added, the intelligent to become
                    muddle-headed.
                The very feelings that the vivisector himself would appeal to with all his
                    eloquence, on any other occasion, must now be dried up at their source, and the
                    kind and tender-hearted—like the beautiful fairies in the old legends, who
                    turned, by a stroke of magic, into ugly old witches—suddenly grow unimaginative
                    and selfish in relation to a luckless race of creatures, whose one crime is that
                    they are not human, yet whose sole hope of mercy and justice lies in Man, their
                    Demon-God!
                Alas! human conduct towards the animals seems to justify the pessimism of many a
                    troubled soul, who fears that Man too has a Demon-God to rule over him, and that
                    human life can never be anything but hopeless and tormented, since the power
                    that rules is not beneficent, but vivisectional in spirit, treating us, its
                    hapless victims, very much as we, in our turn, treat those over whom we exercise
                    unlimited power. How indeed can we complain, if such be the order of the
                    universe?
                I have, again and again, heard this very idea, but in a different form, used as
                    an argument in favour of vivisection! All Nature, it is urged, is at strife and
                    works by sacrifice: why should not man do likewise? There is no reason whatever,
                    on the assumption that there is no such thing as a moral law: no such thing as
                    right and wrong, nothing in Nature, either 
                    actually or potentially, other than the mere law of strife and rapine. If what
                    we call the moral element in man be a mere illusion, then the law of sacrifice
                    (of others), is one which man might imitate with impunity.
                Only, let not those who bring forward this argument in favour of vivisection,
                    shirk its application to their general scheme of life: let them clearly
                    recognise all that the argument implies, and stick boldly to their colours. For,
                    seeing that Nature works only by strife, and that man (by their own showing)
                    ought not to attempt to be more pitiful than she is, mercy and sympathy are mere
                    morbid excrescences, betraying decay of primitive force, as the growth of a
                    fungus on a tree-root shows loss of vigour in the tree. In that case, moral laws
                    are ridiculous, and all arguments founded on them are absurd. In that case,
                    there is no good reason for abstaining from doing anything that we may have the
                    power to do: and all social ordinances must be condemned which seek to override
                    the crude law of Nature, and to allow peace and opportunity and happiness to be
                    the lot of weak and strong alike, as far as human power can avail to rescue and
                    redeem. All this (on the above assumption) is an attempt to run contrary to
                    "Nature," and as such is futile and ridiculous. We must let Nature work out the
                    destiny of her creatures by her own drastic methods. We must not intervene to
                    save, and we must not attempt to spare any weaker creature for pity"s sake, when
                    we may gain something by tormenting that weakling. We have Nature"s sanction for
                    our ferocity. Of course our manners should be polite, and our conduct diplomatic
                    when there is the slightest chance that the weakling has friends, or power of
                    retaliation, direct or indirect. Towards such beings, and towards all the
                    mighty, we must adopt rules of conduct, which, for convenience and elegance may
                    be termed our "moral code": but as soon as we see that the code can be neglected
                    without danger to ourselves, the superstition may be immediately discarded and
                    the true rule of conduct be reverted to: Do unto others as you would very
                        much object that they should do unto
                        you. We may proclaim ourselves Christians, at the same time, without
                    hesitation, if we find it gratifying to belong to that esteemed body. We shall
                    not find that anyone will call us inconsistent, although the precept may not be
                    precisely in harmony with the teaching of the founder of the Christian faith.
                    Only, we must be careful to be faultlessly ethical in creed and conduct
                    (especially in creed) when we have to do with those who would make it unpleasant
                    for us, if we neglected these simple precautions, and we may then be sure that
                    all will go well with us, and that the Nature whom we worship, will select us
                    for survival as extremely "fit."
                I do not here attempt to dispute the doctrine that what Nature does, man is
                    justified in imitating. I only point out that if we really accept the doctrine,
                    in order to excuse vivisection, we must not draw back and eat our own words when
                    we find that it also excuses cruelty, tyranny and injustice towards all who are
                    not strong enough to force us to carry out our moral professions.
                It is a significant fact,—which may be seen by the records of history and by our
                    own conduct to-day—: that moral standards are always high in relation to the
                    dominant and influential, that they gradually dwindle down in regard to the less
                    powerful, and disappear altogether as soon as we reach the utterly defenceless.
                    Now, those who may be numbered among the defenceless differ enormously, as to
                    class and kind, in different epochs and in different countries; and if one could
                    draw a chart on which a sinuous line was made to indicate these differences, the
                    line would take most erratic and eccentric curves in passing from country to
                    country, and from age to age. Beneath the line would be placed all those beings
                    in relation to whom the human moral code becomes non-effective: just above the
                    line would be ranged those who had some slight, uncertain hold upon the
                    sentiment of their fellows: above this, again, would come those possessing
                    definite though meagre rights, and so on up the scale, till we arrive at the
                    full complement of rights, and the full sense of moral  responsibility on the part of mankind, towards this
                    favoured class.
                In all ages, animals have been below this line, except now and then, when some
                    great religion has won for them reverence and protection. At certain epochs, it
                    may be said that slaves have been below the fatal line, for, as regards them,
                    the general moral code has been null and void. What was a wrong to a free man
                    was considered no wrong towards a slave. He might be beaten, killed, ill-treated
                    in every possible way, and the conscience of the master, though a "good" man,
                    was not disturbed. His moral code did not apply to his slave.* Serfs attached to the soil, bondmen,
                    burghers, husbandmen, in early ages, and the very poor in all ages, will give
                    examples of varying positions, below or above this imaginary line. For
                    centuries, women were below the line, and in * In the earlier centuries of feudalism, the varying cogency
                            of the moral code was expressed in the frankest manner, by the money
                            fines which had to be paid for killing or injuring different members of
                            the community; 
                                "But no distinction can be more unequivocal than that which was
                                    established between the two nations in the weregild, or
                                    composition for homicide. Capital punishment for murder was
                                    contrary to the spirit of the Franks, who, like most barbarous
                                    nations, would have thought the loss of one citizen ill repaired
                                    by that of another. The weregild was paid to the relations of
                                    the slain, according to a legal rate. This was fixed by the
                                    Salic law at six hundred solidi for an Antrustion of the king;
                                    at three hundred for a Roman conviva
                                        regis (meaning a man of sufficient rank to be
                                    admitted to the royal table); at two hundred for a common Frank;
                                    at one hundred for a Roman possessor of lands; and at
                                    forty-five for a tributary, or cultivator of another"s property.
                                    In Burgundy, where religion and length of settlement had
                                    introduced different ideas, murder was punished with death. But
                                    other personal injuries were compensated, as among the Franks,
                                    by a fine, graduated accordingly to the rank and nation of the
                                    aggrieved party."
                                —HALLAM, MIDDLE AGES.
                            The following is an extract from the laws of the
                            Anglo-Saxons. It was the law of the King of Wessex, Ini, who ruled over
                            the West Saxons. It is rather startling to think that in Dorsetshire and
                            Somersetshire in A.D. 690, the following was one of the laws of a king
                            who made special efforts at establishing justice and stability in his
                            realm. These are King Ini"s own words (as translated by Mr. Benjamin
                            Thorpe in the Ancient Laws and Institutes of the
                                Anglo-Saxons.)
                            Law of King Ini of Wessex, A.D. 690.
                            "(Cap. II.) If anyone sell his own countryman, bond or free, though
                                he be guilty, over sea, let him pay for him according, according to
                                his "wer"."
                            Again,
                            "(Cap. 39.) If any one go from his lord without leave, or steal
                                himself away into another shire, and he be discovered, let him go
                                where he was before, and pay to his lord 1x. shillings" (In those
                                days a very large sum.)
                        
                            
                                A.D., about 920. Wessex. Edward.
                                1. The north people"s king"s gild is 30,000 thrymsas; 15,000
                                    are for the wergild, and 15,000 for the cynedom. The wer belongs
                                    to the kindred and the cynebot to the people.
                                2. An archbishop"s and an ætheling"s (noble"s) wergild is
                                    15,000 thrymsas.
                                3. A bishop and ealdorman"s, 8,000 thrymsas.
                                4. A hold"s and a king"s high reeve"s 4,000 thrymsas.
                                5. A mass thegn"s and a secular thegn"s 2,000 thrymsas.
                                6. A ceorl"s wergild is 266 thrymsas, that is 200 shillings by
                                    Mercian law ...
                            
                            Stubbs. Select Charters Illustrative of English History.
                        
                            In the Burgundian Code, "there are .... three sorts of compositions.
                                (1.) one for the noble Burgundian or Roman. (2.) another for the
                                Burgundian or Roman of moderate condition (3.) the third for those
                                who were of the inferior position in both nations.
                            —MONTESQUIEU. ESPRIT DES LOIS. VOL. II., pp.10-15.
                        
                            
                                Extracts from Buddhist Scriptures, some of them compiled
                                    before the Christian era.
                                (2.) "The practice of religion involves, as a first principle,
                                    a loving, compassionate heart for all creatures."....
                                (4.) "When first I undertook to obtain wisdom, then also I
                                    took on me to defend the weak. All living things of whatsoever
                                    sort call forth my compassion and pity."
                                (5.) "How can a system requiring the infliction of misery on
                                    other beings be called a religious system? To seek a good by
                                    doing an evil is surely no safe plan."....
                                (7.) "Causing destruction to living beings, killing and
                                    mutilating, ..... these are what defile a man."
                                (8.) "Even so, of all things that have life, there is not one
                                    that the Buddhist anchorite passes over. He looks upon all with
                                    deep-felt love. This, verily, is the way to a state of union
                                    with Amitâbha." (The loving Father of all that lives.)
                            
                        
                     many countries, at the present day, they
                    cannot, at best, be said to be more than just above it, since they may be
                    imprisoned, bought and sold, and treated as property, without offence against
                    the moral sentiment of their country; and even 
                    in the freest communities, boasting a representative government, they are made
                    to obey laws, and to pay taxes to which they have not given their assent.
                Human vivisection has been practised, in early centuries, on a large scale. The
                    schools of Alexandria were famous for their vivisections; and what is more
                    startling, in the later Middle Ages, in Florence, it was common for the Duke to
                    encourage learning, by delivering over to the physiologists, for dissection
                    while alive, unhappy wretches from the State prisons. Fallopius was celebrated
                    for these researches. Of course, in every case, ancient, and modern, the victims
                    are chosen from the defenceless class, and there is really no essential
                    difference between our present practice with regard to vivisection, and the
                    practice of the ancients, whom we imagine so much more barbarous than ourselves.
                    In every case, we choose our victims from the class below the line.
                    It is no thanks to our moral feeling that we do not choose them from the class
                    securely above it, for we are unable to do that with safety.
                The fatal line, indeed, has fallen, so that now vast multitudes are above it, who
                    would have been hopelessly below it, in times gone by. There are now fewer human
                    beings whom it is safe and "allowable" to maltreat. Yet different groups of
                    people hold very different positions in regard to it, to this day. The standard
                    of conduct towards the white man and the black man still differs preposterously:
                    and it is yet possible, as I have pointed out, to treat women as a class apart,
                    to whom obligations and rights may be arbitrarily apportioned or withheld by the
                    governing sex,—and this without any sense that a wrong is being done. It is in
                    regard to women and to animals that we see the clearest and grossest survivals
                    from pure savagery. But the line has risen sufficiently on the whole, to exempt
                    human beings from being openly subjected to vivisection. Animals are now the
                    only race completely below the line, in this respect. But there are still
                    certain human beings defenceless enough to be subjected to this outrage, not
                    exactly in secret, for the fact leaks out more or less, but without  official recognition. These people may, nevertheless,
                    be said to be well above the line, for the sentiment of the public is not
                    favourable to their being made the subjects of experiment: and they would be
                    protected, if only they were not too poor, too ignorant, and too friendless to
                    appeal to the general sentiment for redress.
                So that in civilised countries, at the present day, only the animals remain
                    completely below the line; but they seem to be sinking even lower, to be pushed
                    farther away from human mercy and protection, as the desire to further the
                    interests of humanity increases. Our luckless dumb companions are doomed to
                    suffer increasingly at the hands of man, who claims to be their moral superior,
                    and proceeds to prove this superiority by torture and mutilation.
                Now, I would again point out that all this is perfectly right, and as it should
                    be, if we are to accept the doctrine that because Nature is ruthless, man
                        should also be "red in tooth and claw." We have seen how our moral
                    codes become less and less cogent in proportion to the weakness of the class
                    with whom we have to deal, till they cease to be operative altogether, in
                    relation to perfect helplessness: but the significant fact ought not to dismay
                    us, if we sincerely reverence this doctrine. On the instant, however, that we
                    repudiate it; on the instant that we begin to hope that the human heart and
                    human intellect have power to create or to develop, from an inner germ, an order
                    of things whose law transcends that of brute force (as, for example, the laws of
                    chemistry transcend those of mechanics, and the laws of biology transcend those
                    of chemistry), then we have no longer any conceivable right to appeal to the
                    example of mechanical Nature, as a justification for any human practice
                        whatsoever.*
                To apply the laws of Nature to human conduct, in that * The extraordinary argument based
                        on "Nature" partly arises from the very limited sense in which the term is
                        used; "Nature" being made to stand merely for the natural forces in their
                        simplest and lowest form, moral laws being ignored altogether, although also
                        part of Nature.
                     sense, is about as absurd as it would be for
                    the chemist to study his particular science on the lines of pure mechanics, or
                    for the medical man to consider his patient simply in the light of an oxide, or
                    a mere compound of nitrogen and carbon.
                Because a hurricane ravages and destroys, is a man justified in setting forth to
                    devastate his neighbourhood? The "Nature" argument is surely palpably
                    ridiculous. It is almost incredible that it should be necessary to point out
                    that fallacy and confusion that results from adopting this patent, moveable,
                    double-action reversible premiss, which may be shifted at pleasure—brought
                    forward or suppressed according to the conclusion at which one desires to
                    arrive, or the practices which one desires to justify. But this sort of logical
                    legerdemain is performed by persons of majestic intellect, and it is to be
                    feared, therefore, that the apparently self-evident fact does
                    require pointing out. We have all grown so accustomed to making exceptions to
                    the disadvantage of animals, that in our very philosophy, in our very theory of
                    the universe, these ill-starred creatures are in question. They must be thrust
                    out of all pales: the pale of religion, of philosophy, of morality; and we are
                    not at all particular in what manner the expulsion is performed. For the
                    entirely helpless there is no sanctuary. The human heart is closed against them:
                    man will not extend his protection to beings who cannot share his high moral
                    development. So he decides to resign himself to the "order of Nature" and to
                    improve upon her a little (for systematic torture, even at her worst, she seldom
                    indulges in); but, at the same time, he holds that a reverence for Humanity and
                    a faith in the sacredness of the human soul (especially if unto the human soul
                    have been added certain temporal advantages) must always actuate his conduct and
                    temper his philosophy.
                So much for his philosophy!
                And now let us ask ourselves if life would be possible or  endurable on the "Nature" or the vivisectional
                    theory, honestly believed in and acted on. Surely our whole attempt at
                    civilization, imperfect though it may be, is a gigantic contradiction of the
                    doctrine. There is not a quality of character, not an admirable deed, not a
                    faith, not a philosophy, not a religion, not an art, but springs from an exactly
                    opposite assumption, and certainly no step of human progress has ever been taken
                    that was not in flagrant contradiction to the preposterous thesis.* Probably no one really believes it, yet
                    how many of us are ready to profess it, in order to provide a convenient excuse
                    for consigning the poor dumb beasts to a hell on earth, while we avoid, for our
                    precious selves, even the discomfort of remorse!† We drag up the old dummy-dogma—like
                    some sainted corpse from its grave—and solemnly bow down, and make believe to be
                    taken in by it. Nor do we shrink from the pompous farce, even though our very
                    next words, on some other topic, proclaim a belief diametrically opposite to
                    this false profession of faith, of which we have not even the grace to be
                    ashamed! Sure it is time to call a truce to such fooling!
                * 
                        "Moreover it is the nature of intelligent beings to feel the
                            imperfections of the laws of Nature."
                        —MONTESQUIEU. ESPRIT DES LOIS. Vol. II., p.292
                    
                † 
                        
                            "Leibnitz has well said that our moral judgments would be as exact
                                and trustworthy as deductions from geometrical axioms and
                                definitions, if nothing crossed them, if they were never in
                                opposition to our tendencies, our cravings our passions and our
                                interests."
                            "Two thousand years before the Redemption, in solitudes of Idumea, it
                                had been predicted of the just man, reconciled to God, that he
                                should live in peace with the wild beasts, "And the beasts of the
                                field shall be at peace with thee."
                            Does the pessimist answer "Alas, how far off is that day?" Let him do
                                his part in teaching the doctrine, and the day will be nearer."
                        
                        —JOURNAL OF ZOOPHILY. PHILADELPHIA, PA. Aug. 1894. Vol. III. No.
                            8.
                    
                        
                            "In battering down all cruelty in your hearts, and in the world, you
                                not only destroy a thing hideous, but you create a thing of
                                beauty.
                            Crime, cruelty to animals, and war (which is crime at wholesale) will
                                never cease until consideration for all that can love or suffer is
                                thoroughly inculcated in our homes, schools and churches, and
                                practised towards all animals."
                        
                        —EDITH CARRINGTON.
                    
                
                Every hope that humanity can cherish, every grace and charm of life, every fine
                    impulse, everything in heaven and earth that we call beautiful or good, springs
                    from a source which we impiously deny, in asserting that humanity must take, for
                    its guide of conduct, the laws of mere blind force.
                Who will seriously dispute that human happiness and progress comes, in the long
                    run, not by suppressing the sympathetic sentiments, but by throwing open more
                    widely the gates of mercy, by a more generous outstretching of the spirit? And
                    it is not merely the heart, but the intellect which must expand, in order to
                    make broader the circle of human charity. Truly, more often is the narrow
                    intellect than the hard heart guilty of a cruel decree. It is not alone the
                    sentiments but the imagination that must awake and enlarge, till not the
                    humblest thing that suffers on this earth shall be beyond the pale of human
                    justice and human tenderness.
                Can anyone really persuade himself that the path of progress lies exactly the
                    other way? Does anyone really believe that our race must seek its redemption in
                    torture, its health and happiness by the infliction of anguish unspeakable?
                If such be really the order of the universe, what is left for us but to "curse
                    God and die?"
                But if such be not the true law of human life, what can be more
                    clear and obvious than the path of salvation and of hope?
            
            
                MONA CAIRD.
            
                
        
    
