
     ----CITATION----
        Dixon, Ella Hepworth (1855-1932). One Doubtful Hour. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 288 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (24-November-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7122
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    ONE DOUBTFUL HOUR 
                    AND OTHER SIDE-LIGHTS ON THE FEMININE
                        TEMPERAMENT
                
                BY ELLA HEPWORTH DIXON,  AUTHOR OF ‘THE STORY OF A
                    MODERN WOMAN’
                
                    LONDON 
                    GRANT RICHARDS
                
                1904
                
                
                    Printed by R. & R. CLARK, Edinburgh.
                
            
            
                
                Dedication
                TO EUGÉNIE PHILLIPS
            
            
                
                Preface
                MY best thanks are due to the courtesy of the editors of The
                        World, Pall Mall Magazine, Lady's
                        Pictorial, Ladies' Field, and The Yellow
                        Book for permission to reprint these tales, three of which I have
                    rewritten.
                
                    
                        Marth 1904.
                    
                
            
            
                
                CONTENTS
                
                    ‘ONE DOUBTFUL HOUR 1
                    THE DISENCHANTMENT OF DIANA 31
                    ITS OWN REWARD 58
                    A POLITICAL COMEDY 83
                    THE FORTUNE OF FLORA 106
                    MLLE. MANKOVICH 136
                    THE KIDNAPPING OF PHIL ALTAMORE 156
                    WHEN PURFLEET WENT TO THE WAR 182
                    ‘THE WORLD'S SLOW STAIN’ 200
                    ‘THE SWEET O' THE YEAR’ 221
                
            
        
        
            
            ONE DOUBTFUL HOUR
                
                
                    
                        Were it good
                        To set the exact wealth of all our states
                        All at one cast? To set so rich a main
                        On the nice hazard of one doubtful hour?
                        It were not good: for therein should we read
                        The very bottom and the soul of hope;
                        The very list, the very utmost bound
                        Of all our fortunes.
                    
                    Henry IV.
                
                
                    I
                    A MAN and a woman were leaning side by side on the bulwarks of a
                        Peninsular and Oriental steamer from Bombay. The man had grizzled hair,
                        kindly eyes, and a skin of that special yellow-brown produced by years of
                        summers in the Plains. The woman was thin—almost angular. She was dressed
                        cheaply, but with audacious coquetry, and showed traces of having once been
                        a pretty pink-and-white girl. She had an air
                        of having taken the grizzled man in charge.
                    ‘Malta!’ said the grizzled man with a little sigh of pleasure; ‘why, we're
                        almost home!’
                    ‘Yes,’ murmured the faded girl, ‘almost home!’
                    The great steamer swung round in the harbour of Valetta, and then the scrooge
                        of the anchor was heard, and in another instant it was thundering into the
                        green water. Overhead there was a canopy of purest cobalt-blue. A military
                        tattoo could be heard from the heights above. A line of scarlet was seen
                        threading up towards a drawbridge. One or two monster ironclads filled the
                        harbour with their menace. It was an imposing scene enough. Even the
                        Anglo-Indian ladies stretched on deck-chairs languidly closed their parasols
                        and stared around them. The doctor stood ready at the gangway, waiting to
                        get pratique.
                    ‘You don't seem to look forward to getting back to England with as much
                        pleasure and interest as I do,’ said Colonel Simpson, smiling down at
                        her.
                    How formally he talked, thought Effie Lauder—so unlike the soldiers she
                            knew. Colonel Simpson, to be sure, was
                        in the Engineers, and Sappers, as every one knew, were either ‘mad,
                        methodist, or married.’ That, perhaps, was what made him so formal in his
                        speech, making him stare at her slang: that particular military slang which
                        consists in saying ‘What?’ at the end of every sentence.... In all other
                        respects he was delightful, she thought. He was just the right
                        age—forty-three or four. He was a bachelor, with only one sister, and lately
                        his father had died and left him a small private income.
                    ‘Home,’ said Effie, with a laugh which was not quite pleasant, ‘isn't always
                        the happiest place. What?’
                    ‘I am sorry to hear you say that,’ said Colonel Simpson, kindly, after a
                        pause, in which Effie suddenly realised that she had said the wrong
                        thing.
                    ‘I mean,’ she broke in hurriedly, ‘that I'm awfully fond of my brother. And
                        after two years with him in India, it was beastly leaving him, don't you
                        know. I daresay it will be tremendous fun to be back again at Westsea. I
                        always have a good time there. There's always plenty going on.’
                    Miss Lauder felt she had saved the 
                            situa-
                            situation
                         tion. The colonel's eves wandered
                        off to the frowning limestone bastions of Valetta. ‘You must be a great
                        favourite at West-sea,’ he said presently. ‘And of course you are fond of
                        dancing? I like to see girls fond of dancing. It is natural, is it not?’
                    ‘Ye-s,’ said Effie, faintly.
                    Twelve years ago, when she first came out, she had been a good deal admired
                        in Westsea. But Colonel Lauder had died some ten years ago now, leaving
                        behind him a widow, two boys, who had already passed for the army, and three
                        girls. They had nothing particular to live on, but things were eked out as
                        only the widows of officers know how. Regularly Effie appeared at the
                        balls—those five-shilling dances which form the marriage-market of Westsea;
                        and, though Mrs. Lauder never ceased grumbling, the family, with their lower
                        portion of a house in Bellevue Crescent, had presented a brave front to the
                        world. But how tired Effie was of balls! She had been to so many in her
                        life, had danced so unceasingly in pursuit of an ever-vanishing husband. She
                        had been trying to look arch, and pretty, and lively, for exactly twelve
                            years. ... How weary she was of it all!
                        In her heart she did not care for ‘gaiety’; she would like to have stopped
                        at home, in a snug little sitting-room of her own, doing fancy work by the
                        fire while her husband read the newspaper. Her smiles would not have been
                        forced; they would have come naturally enough then. She would like, above
                        all, she thought, to have had a baby of her own, a baby with dimpling,
                        creasy wrists, and little feet which kicked. She would like to have felt a
                        child's fat arms locked round her neck.... It was one of the eternal ironies
                        of life that, in pursuit of this ideal, she had been obliged to dance and
                        giggle, and say audacious things for exactly twelve years. Two or three
                        times, indeed, it had been nearly coming off. At twenty she had been
                        actually engaged, for a fortnight, to a captain in a dragoon regi-ment. But
                        the young man had money, his family had interfered; and Effie had been too
                        proud—and too sure, at that age, of her popularity and good looks—to insist
                        upon the marriage. After that her admirers at Westsea had been numerous, but
                        nothing had come of it all. At twenty-nine, a year or two before she had
                        gone to India, there had been a nice boy in
                        the Gunners who had proposed. Freddy was just twenty-three, and full of
                        hope, but he was ordered to an up-country station in India. Cholera was rife
                        in the long rains; Freddy was taken ill early one morning, and they fired a
                        salute over a hastily-dug grave at night-fall. Effie had liked the boy, but
                        she did not take the incident so seriously as to prevent her from accepting
                        her brother's invitation to spend a year with him at Mhow. The finer edge of
                        her sensibilities, by this time, had been rubbed away.
                    The year's invitation had stretched into two, but at last she had been
                        obliged to return, under the care of her brother's major's wife, to home and
                        the sordid economies practised with such vigour and asperity by Mrs. Lauder.
                        Home! This word meant to Effie a dining-room floor in a mildewy crescent in
                        Westsea, her mother's bedroom contiguous to their one living-room, a damp
                        bedroom of her own built in the garden; an attic for the two little sisters,
                        Rosie and Kate. There was a sewing-machine which was always buzzing on the
                        days when she had one of her nervous headaches; a smell of washing arose from the lower regions. On the drawing-room
                        floor lived Major Harkness, with his wife and ever-increasing young
                        family.
                    All this slipped through her mind as she stood, side by side with Colonel
                        Simpson, gazing at the scarped walls and bastions of Valetta, the crowd of
                        shipping in the harbour, the swarm of tiny boats clustering round the great
                        homeward-bound steamer, filled with gesticulating Maltese proffering strings
                        of sponges to the passengers.
                    ‘I have some idea,’ said the colonel casually, ‘of settling in London for a
                        year or two—’
                    ‘In London!’ ejaculated Effie, her heart bounding.
                    ‘We Anglo-Indians get very rusty, Miss Lauder. Want a little contact with the
                        world. We want to be, as they say nowadays, “in the movement.” Now I've
                        heard of a nice house, with a moderate rent, in the Pen-y-Wern Road, Earl's
                        Court. What do you think of that?’
                    ‘A—a little far out, what?’ said Effie quickly. ‘I mean, of course, from your
                        clubs. You know what people say in town? The way to get to Earl's Court is
                        to drive up Cromwell Road until your horses drop down dead, and there you are, don't you
                        know.’
                    ‘ It sounds,’ said the colonel, ‘an expensive place to live in. But we shall
                        see. You must give me your valuable advice, Miss Lauder. At first, you know,
                        I'm to stay with my sister in Ryde for a time.’
                    ‘The way to Ryde is by Westsea,’ said Effie, with a coquettish glance at her
                        companion, which would have been very effective—ten years ago. The colonel
                        took out a cigar and lit it with some deliberation. Some Cingalese
                        merchants, with plaited chignons, had come on board to sell jewellery, and
                        the Anglo-Indian ladies on the deck-chairs were awaking from their
                        torpor.
                    ‘We've time to drive to San' Antonio,’ said the colonel. ‘Will you give me
                        the pleasure of your company, Miss Lauder? Of course I shall ask your
                        chaperon.’
                    With or without a chaperon, Miss Lauder was quite ready to drive to San'
                        Antonio with Colonel Simpson.
                    In midwinter the white, steep streets of Valetta, eternally bathed in
                        sunshine, are pleasant enough. The glare of scarlet coats, marching along
                        the narrow thoroughfares, the women in their
                        black gowns and quaint black veils, the white, Italian-looking houses, and,
                        outside the fortifications, the hedges of prickly pear and the sweep of
                        limestone landscape, make, together, a memorable picture. Yet even under the
                        blue-fringed awning of the carriage the glare was formidable. The major's
                        wife refused to move from the carriage when they reached the gates of the
                        Palace, and so it fell out that the colonel and Effie passed under the white
                        walls covered with wine-coloured bougainvillæas, and walked alone, the
                        solitary occupants of the tropical-looking garden, down the broad central
                        path fringed with palms and aloes.
                    The girl was absolutely and entirely happy. She stole little glances up at
                        the bronzed, rather hard face at her side—a face which was softened by the
                        kindliness of the eyes. Colonel Simpson was not a talkative man, but most
                        women felt a sense of rest and security in his presence. He offered her his
                        arm, smiling, and she took it with a curious little thrill of pleasure. They
                        leant over the lily-ponds, with their mysterious green shadows. For a long
                        time neither spoke. Then they began to talk of England. The colonel dwelt on his plans, pleased to find a
                        charming woman who was interested in them. Effie Lauder was so radiantly
                        happy that she seemed transfigured. That afternoon, at least, she was all
                        sincerity.
                    ‘Time to be off, I'm afraid,’ said the colonel at last, looking at his watch,
                        ‘if we want to do any shopping. I must show you the shops in Valetta, Miss
                        Lauder. They are usually most attractive to ladies.’
                    In the Strada Reale, the major's wife exhibited some signs of returning
                        animation. Effie Lauder, conscious of empty pockets, looked in at the
                        jewellers' windows with longing eyes.
                    ‘Is that what takes your fancy?’ said the colonel, in his kind voice. He was
                        the sort of man who cannot be with a lady in a shop without buying her
                        something. The rooms of his friends were covered with pretty things of his
                        choosing.
                    ‘It's awfully sweet,’ said Effie, with a sigh. The object under
                        consideration was a slender gold muff-chain, with a Maltese cross in crimson
                        enamel attached to it.
                    ‘I hope,’ said the colonel, after a moment's hesitation, ‘that your mother
                        will not think it a liberty if I ask you to accept that little trifle as a souvenir of our delightful voyage. I
                        owe you so much,’ he added, ‘that it would be but a poor return for the
                        pleasure of your society.’
                    Effie Lauder drove back to the ship with flushed cheeks and excited eyes.
                        Round her neck was the colonel's muff-chain.
                    She wore it, night and day, until the steamer dropped anchor at
                        Southampton.
                
                
                    II
                    THE ball had not yet begun, but the squeaking and scraping of
                        instruments being hurriedly tuned were audible above the clatter of
                        talk.
                    With bright, anxious eyes which shifted restlessly, Effie stood upright by a
                        rout-seat—not daring to sit down, lest she should be passed over by the
                        young men in scarlet mess-jackets who were eagerly booking partners. Her
                        heart was beating rather hard beneath her creased satin bodice, for,
                        incredible as it seemed, no one had yet asked for her programme, and Effie
                        was aware that, at Westsea, partners were
                        irrevocably chosen for the evening in that scurrying twenty minutes before
                        the band struck up. Her meagre black frock, which was cut audaciously low on
                        the shoulders, cast up grey shadows under her chin, and accentuated the
                        hollows in her neck. There is a certain exaggerated standard of liveliness
                        and good looks in demand in garrison towns. No falling off is permitted in
                        either respect in popular feminine favourites. Effie Lauder had always been
                        a showy girl, and she had invariably been described as ‘great fun.’ She
                        stood very upright, with her chin in the air, and kept on smiling.
                    Her glance took in the familiar Assembly Rooms—that large, bare drabbish hall
                        which had been the scene of her little successes for ten years, now so
                        curiously full of unfamiliar faces. The military type, however, remained
                        precisely the same as when she had left for that two years' sojourn in
                        India. Though most of them were strangers to her now, the same sort of men
                        elbowed their way hither and thither in search of showy ladies. The
                        subalterns, for the most part, looked incredibly young and incredibly pink;
                        there were captains with square jaws and somewhat roving eyes; majors with
                            drooping moustaches, and one or two
                        colonels, getting a little grey at the temples, and with a more reserved
                        manner with the ladies. To Effie, to-night, the crowd seemed to wear a
                        heartless, pushing aspect.... Surely the men of the new regiment were not as
                        nice as those she had left behind?
                    A tubby major—an old admirer—strolled up, jestingly pulled the flimsy
                        programme from her fingers, inscribed his name opposite number nineteen, and
                        went off, with a pre-occupied air, in search of a certain yellow-haired
                        widow. The major was forty-five; he was a married man, and he had only asked
                        her for the nineteenth dance!... Effie sighed.
                    She tried to look pleased, even when the band struck up with a sudden blare,
                        and the whole big roomful of people fell, like automata, into each other's
                        arms, and began to swirl round the room in the opening valse. She watched
                        Katie and Rose, her two younger sisters, as they were borne off in the
                        romping dance. The girls, though plain, were young and fresh, and she
                        herself had sewn with them for a week to make new frocks of cheap white
                        material. Effie was a good-hearted woman,
                        and she was delighted that her little sisters should find partners. Kate and
                        Rose were lively young ladies, whose snub noses were seen, for the rest of
                        the evening, gyrating round the gaunt Assembly Rooms over the red shoulders
                        of linesmen and the more sombre blue uniforms of gunners.
                    The elder sister kept on smiling, though she was the only dancer left now,
                        standing up by the rout-seats which lined the room. Her mother was not
                        there; she was chaperoning the girls herself, so, when the first rush of
                        couples came pushing against her, she slipped on to a seat, making one of a
                        row of thin, patient, elderly women with pinched lips and faded silk
                        gowns.
                    Effie glanced down at her programme and considered the situation. One or two
                        men had scrawled some initials opposite dances. Mr. O'Malley, Army Medical
                        Staff, had asked for numbers nine and ten, and old General M'Taggart had
                        invited her for a distant polka. But the whole thing spelt disaster; she had
                        come back to Westsea after a two years' absence only to find little Katie
                        and Rosie more in demand than herself, and to taste the humiliation of the chaperons' rout-seat.... At Mhow,
                        on the Bombay side, where ladies were not too numerous, it had been very
                        different. This was her first crushing sense of defeat....
                    Yet this heroine of a humble, every-day tragedy contrived to look cheerful.
                        The world—the sniffing, feminine world, particularly—must not rejoice in her
                        downfall. For if the men had changed since she was away, the women were
                        precisely the same.... Yet perhaps she would not have to sit out those eight
                        weary dances until Mr. O'Malley, Army Medical Staff, claimed her to join in
                        the ball. Some one might turn up, or, at the worst, she could pretend she
                        was unwell; she could slip out, put on her waterproof and boots, and run
                        home to Bellevue Crescent. The vision of her bed, just now, was sufficiently
                        alluring.
                    They were playing the Washington Post, and to the onlookers on the rout-seats
                        the spectacle was sufficiently absurd. One or two young girls looked
                        graceful enough, carrying the thing through with the aid of their youth and
                        charm; but the appearance of the more mature performers gave a curiously
                        bacchanalian air to the whole proceeding.
                        The music was an air to which Effie had often danced at Mhow on sultry,
                        light nights, when a monster silver moon had shed an incredible light on the
                        parched landscape.... At Mhow, indeed, there had always been partners at the
                        balls, if they were not so easily secured for life.... Why had she come
                        back? It was true that Tom's wife—who had all the whims and caprices of a
                        young woman possessing fifteen hundred a year of her own—had got tired of
                        the sister-in-law from England, and had not scrupled to let her see it; but
                        she felt that by appealing to her brother's good-nature, by dwelling on the
                        sordid discomfort, the minor miseries of the Westsea household, she might
                        have secured a prolonged invitation. She told herself bitterly that it was
                        humiliating for a woman past thirty not to have a penny of her own, to be
                        dependent on the caprices of a bad-tempered, parsimonious mother.
                    The dance had ceased abruptly, and heated couples—the ladies smiling somewhat
                        pityingly at Miss Lauder's forlorn state—brushed by her on their way to the
                        refreshment-room, or to those much-sought-for chairs placed discreetly down
                            obscure passages.... How well she knew
                        it all! How often she had been carried off triumphantly by some temporary
                        admirer who had prosecuted a vague suit in those same passages, on the same
                        meagre cane chairs! A young woman passed her, looking up with frankly
                        inviting eyes at the middle-aged man on whose arm she hung a little.... It
                        was the old, old tragi-comedy; the degrading, unceasing pursuit of the
                        possible husband....
                    They had finished the fifth dane in the programme. The next was a waltz, and
                        the band struck up an oily, lugubrious air, entitled, ‘The Love that is
                        Loved Alway.’ The couples swarmed into the room again, brushing past her
                        callously, as she sat at the end of the rout-seat by the door. From old
                        habit, or instinct, the girl had taken this corner-place in order that she
                        could stand up at the end of the dances, and pretend that she, too, had had
                        a partner. This ingenious feminine ruse had partly succeeded, but when the
                        waltz had fairly begun, she was forced to sit down again.
                    Only three more dances to smile through now, and then Mr. O'Malley, the
                        red-headed little Irish doctor from Netley Hospital, would claim her for two whole dances! It was
                        really very nice of Mr. O'Malley; he had known her three or four years ago,
                        when he was passing his examinations at Southampton. Now he had a permanent
                        post.... Rapidly she calculated how much it was worth a year.... Her
                        thoughts passed on, as the cornets accentuated the trite, commonplace waltz
                        air, and the room was once more filled with rapidly-whirling figures. Scraps
                        of foolish talk, answered by the slightly shrill laughter of the girls, fell
                        on her dull ears as she sat there. How tired, how tired she felt.... How
                        lovely, in comparison, it had been on the steamier all the way from India!
                        Effie remembered, with a thrill of pleasure, the long walks and talks on
                        deck with Colonel Simpson; the afternoon at San' Antonio; the chain which he
                        had given her, and which she always wore.
                    Effie felt absolutely sure that he ‘meant something,’ he had been so devoted
                        in a quiet, reserved way. If only she could see him again! ‘Men forget so
                        quickly,’ she said to herself anxiously.... Yet she found strange comfort in
                        the thought of him; she even did not mind so much the dismal failure of
                        to-night. What if Colonel 
                            Simp-
                            Simpson
                         son were really coming to
                        Westsea! He had said that he would come. She repeated to herself his
                        deliberate speech at parting: I shall give myself the pleasure of calling on
                        you and your mother very soon.’ Somehow this phrase seemed to sustain her,
                        for she had begun, suddenly, to feel rather faint and light-headed. The
                        three girls had had no dinner, only an egg and some tea before the great
                        business of dressing. She would have liked a glass of wine and a sandwich,
                        but no one had come near her, or offered to find her any food.
                    And then, of a sudden, her heart stood still as she caught sight of a new
                        arrival in the doorway, a bronzed soldier of forty-five, with a brown
                        moustache tinged with grey. And, as her heart leapt with a rebound against
                        her bodice, she realised, for the first time, how much she cared for this
                        man who had not yet seen her on her lonely rout-seat.
                
                
                    III
                    SHE stood up instinctively, and pretended to be pulling at the ruche
                        at the bottom of her dress. It would never
                        do for Colonel Simpson when he saw her again to find her filling the
                        dolorous rôle of wall-flower...
                    ‘I've just stopped dancing,’ she explained, with a high laugh, as he stepped
                        forward and greeted her. ‘Where on earth did you fall from?’ she went on
                        with unnecessary vivacity.
                    ‘I came from town this evening. I thought I should be sure to find you here.
                        You must be in so much request, as you are only just home,’ he went on, with
                        an indulgent smile. This middle-aged soldier had the kindly expression of a
                        man who has no fatuities about women.
                    ‘ If I am lucky enough to find you disengaged, may I have the honour of the
                        next dance?’
                    ‘Oh, certainly; I can put the other man off,’ cried Effie, with easy
                        mendacity. Her whole manner had altered; already she looked bright and pert;
                        the smudge of lip-salve was not needed now. Her cheeks were curiously red as
                        she began to spin round at last with the dancers. Mr. O'Malley, indeed, and
                        old General M'Taggart with his lumbago! They, who had kept her waiting so
                        long, might wait themselves now.
                    
                    And then the eternal tragi-comedy once more began. The woman, made desperate
                        with disappointment, snatched at this straw of happiness like one who is
                        drowning. With worn, cheap smiles and inviting eyes, she essayed to make
                        herself desirable. She felt giddy and faint with hunger as they swung round
                        in the waltz; the sudden surprise and excitement dazed her, and she hardly
                        knew what she was saying.... Yet how good it was to have him again near
                        her.... She leant heavily on his arm. Did he feel the same
                        thrill, she wondered, that she experienced when the colonel's arm slipped
                        round her? How good, and dear, and nice he was! How different from many of
                        the swaggering young men who had formed her ideal up to now!... Already,
                        with her quick feminine imagination, she saw him forming part of her
                        favourite picture; he was reading the newspaper in a cosy, lamp-lit room,
                        while she did fancy-work by the fire....
                    Vaguely she felt that, hungry and tired though she was, she must keep him
                        amused, interested. True, he had never actually made love to her, but this,
                        she thought, with her experience of garrison balls, was merely lack of opportunity, Colonel Simpson was not the
                        sort of man who would make love to a woman of gentle birth on a steamer.
                    Whatever happened, she said to herself, she must not let him go. He was on
                        his way to Ryde, to see a sister from whom he had been parted for years....
                        How long would that sister keep him? When would she see him again? Something
                        definite, it was certain, must be said or done to-night.
                    ‘I wonder now, what has brought you to Westsea, of all places?’ Effie
                        demanded archly, as they stood at length, breathless, outside the ring of
                        dancers.
                    The man looked at her, struck at the change in her face and manner since he
                        had parted with her on the landing-stage. On the steamer, he remembered, she
                        had had a certain success. The ladies had been few, the men numerous; she
                        had not been forced, by competition, to exaggerate her vivacity and charm.
                        Colonel Simpson, indeed, had thought her a nice enough woman. What he had
                        liked about her specially was the fact that she had only had two years of
                        India; she was still associated, in his mind, with home, and green parsonage
                        gardens, and the narrow convenances of the
                            upper middle class. What had come to
                        this Miss Lauder, he wondered? She had, for all the world, the air of a lean
                        and hungry huntress, and moreover, although he was too gallant to
                        acknowledge it even to himself, that of a hungry huntress of men. It was
                        evident that, to-night, the gods were not on the side of Effie Lauder.
                    He hesitated before he answered.
                    ‘I am on my way to Ryde to see my sister,’ he said quietly, ‘but it was a
                        real pleasure to me to be able to stop on my way and catch another glimpse
                        of you.’
                    ‘It's awfully sweet of you to say that!’ she declared, with what struck him
                        as unnecessary gratitude. ‘I—I was just wondering if you would ever turn
                        up,’ she went on, a shade too eagerly. ‘You men are all alike. No idea of
                        constancy. What?’
                    The colonel felt it incumbent on him to press her arm a little and smile
                        indulgently. Effie's heart began to beat high.
                    ‘Let's—go and sit down somewhere, shall we? I'm so awfully tired,’ murmured
                        the young woman.
                    ‘Why, yes,’ he said kindly, drawing her towards the passages. ‘You must be fatigued. It's past eleven o'clock, and of
                        course you've been dancing all the evening.’
                    At the end of the long, drab, barrack-like passage there were two chairs, a
                        scrap of red carpet, and a shabby palm. A candle guttered in a Chinese
                        lantern overhead. For a wonder this corner was empty.
                    Effie sat down with a sigh. By accident or design, their elbows touched. She
                        felt very happy, though a little light-headed; she had forgotten now that
                        she was hungry....
                    ‘It's awfully nice to see you again,’ she muttered, raising a pair of
                        languishing eyes to his. ‘And very, very sweet of you to come,’ she
                        added.
                    ‘I was on my way—’ began the colonel, but Effie did not seem to hear him. She
                        was wrapped in a sort of dream.... It had all come right.... The man that
                        she had waited for, had counted on, had come. Surely he must care for her,
                        or he would not have travelled so soon to Westsea in midwinter! Well, all
                        her anxieties, her worries, her frustrated hopes, would soon be at an end.
                        This night, indeed, was going to be the one night of her life....
                    Effie waited a few moments, wondering when he would speak, and how he
                            would say what he was going to say,
                        remembering, with a smile, how shy and reserved he had always been. Then,
                        catching sight of herself in a blurred mirror opposite, she gave a little
                        exultant laugh. The transient beauty of expression which comes to every
                        woman who is happy, softened, for an instant, the little hollows in her
                        cheeks and temples, giving her once more almost the roundness of youth....
                        It seemed almost as if she were twenty again, and the prettiest girl in
                        Westsea. In this very corner, only ten years or so ago, men had fallen down
                        and worshipped; quarrelling with each other for the privilege of a dance;
                        waiting humbly until it was her pleasure to go back to the ballroom.... What
                        if she could carry the whole thing off, settle it out of hand with one of
                        those frank audacities which a woman, sure of her beauty and charm, may
                        sometimes permit herself?
                    
                    She would never forget, she said to herself, that look on the colonel's
                        face—that mixture of astonishment, disgust, and, yes, repulsion. But he had
                        saved the situation from being entirely odious—at any rate for the moment—by
                        his never-failing tact and charm of manner.
                        With a heart of lead, she kept on smiling, as she walked down the
                        barrack-like passage on his arm.... Yes, she would like a sandwich, and
                        something to drink, though the sandwich nearly choked her when she tried to
                        eat it; and the claret-cup was horribly sweet. It was just upon twelve now,
                        but the girls, she knew, would want to stay till two at the very earliest.
                        Making some excuse, she slipped into the cloak-room.
                    Colonel Simpson waited some time, thinking Effie would come out again.
                    ‘I must have missed her,’ he thought, and then he lighted a cigar and
                        strolled home to his hotel, wondering, as he stepped along the misty,
                        rain-driven streets, how he could ever have thought seriously—even on a
                        homeward-bound steamer—of such a girl as Effie Lauder.
                    With trembling hands and scarlet cheeks Effie put on her long cloak, her
                        buttoned boots, and a knitted pink hood. Then she waited until she felt sure
                        that he had gone from the door. The trains would not be running now, but it
                        was only a seven minutes' walk. Once outside she began to run. A slight
                        drizzle was falling, and the ends of the
                        long roads, with their stucco terraces and smug gabled villas, were blurred
                        and vague with sea-mist.
                    Breathlessly she reached her own door. There were lights upstairs, in the
                        upper portion of the house, in the rooms occupied by Major Harkness and his
                        wife and children.... Shadows moved hurriedly across the blinds. Poor Mrs.
                        Harkness! Effie remembered, in a dull kind of way, that the doctor's
                        carriage had been often at the door of late. Perhaps it might be to-night?
                        She tried hard to think of Mrs. Harkness; anything was better than dwelling
                        on what had happened at the end of that long drab passage. Though her brain
                        seemed fizzing in her head, she was conscious of one thing—and that was the
                        finality of what had occurred to-night.
                    The one luxury which Effie possessed was a small bedroom to herself, built in
                        the garden, at the very end of the hall passage. It was passably damp and
                        cold in winter, but a small gas-stove had been put in, which she used on
                        cold nights. Effie locked the door, and lit the fire.
                    She sat down, her teeth chattering with her walk through the wet streets.
                        Well, at any rate, the little bedroom,
                        where she could be alone with her trouble, was nicer than the ballroom she
                        had left.... It had been very stupid to-night, she kept repeating to
                        herself, and she had been hungry and light-headed, and had said something
                        silly to Colonel Simpson.... Odd, how she had always liked the man; liked
                        him immensely, all the time on the steamer, and wondered how soon he would
                        turn up again, and exactly what he would say when he asked her to marry him?
                        For Effie had never doubted for an instant that this man—this prince among
                        men—would ask her to be his wife....
                    Overhead, there were steps moving hurriedly to and fro. A bell rang, and
                        Effie could hear the doctor going upstairs. Ah, then, it was to be
                        to-night?
                    She stood up, and looked at herself in the glass. Every vestige of colour had
                        left her cheeks and lips. An earthy-coloured mask with sunken eyes stared at
                        her from the mirror. She was conscious of nothing now but a passionate pity
                        for herself; always of a slightly morbid temperament, she allowed a wave of
                        hypochondriasis to envelop her. She looked round the little room, with its damp-stained walls and shabby
                        furniture, seeing a vista of drab years in which she would be only half
                        alive. The little bed, too, in which she would wake up, morning after
                        morning, year after year.... How she hated that waking hour; usually she
                        woke with a start, with a curious foreboding of something evil.... What
                        if—what if—she went to sleep—and simply did not wake in the morning?
                    
                    The doctor was upstairs all night. The grave, questioning light of a winter
                        dawn was peering through the drawn blinds of the narrow house as, wearied
                        out, he left the sickroom and came downstairs.
                    A scared housemaid laid a dirty hand upon his arm. Would the doctor step
                        along the passage to Miss Effie's room? There was a fearful smell of gas,
                        and Miss Effie wouldn't answer when she knocked. She couldn't make her hear.
                        It wasn't like Miss Effie, who was always civil-spoken, and oh, so kind.
                        Perhaps she was ill, poor young lady, or something might have
                        happened....
                    The doctor's shoulder, after a few efforts,
                        thrust inward the flimsy door. There was a rush of gas into the passage.
                        Every nick and cranny by which air could enter had been carefully filled up.
                        Effie lay on the bed, silent, inert, still dressed ill her black ball-gown.
                        The doctor made a brief examination.
                    ‘How old was she?’ he said, in his professional tone. Already he used the
                        past tense. He stooped, as he spoke, to pick up something underneath his
                        foot. It was a slight gold chain, broken in several places. He found he had
                        trodden too, all unwittingly upon a small Maltese cross.
                    ‘Ask the doctor to be good enough to step up again for a moment,’ urged a
                        shrill feminine voice on the stair—a voice which added, as if in reply to
                        some question, ‘Yes, it's a girl—a very fine little girl.’
                
            
            
                
                THE DISENCHANTMENT OF DIANA
                
                    I
                    ABOUT fifteen years ago, when people in London still read poetry, a
                        young girl was sitting at a writing-table in a room in Mayfair. She had just
                        written an affectionate letter of refusal, had carefully sealed it with
                        sea-green wax, and addressed it to William Forsyth, Esq. Then, with a sudden
                        impulse, she tore it into fragments, and, leaning her two elbows on the
                        desk, dropped her face into her upturned palms and stared out at the dull
                        brick stable, topped with a leaden sky, which formed her daily vision of the
                        outside world.
                    She was a slim, nervous-looking creature, with the wide, pale eyes of those
                        who see spiritual things. At three-and-twenty Diana Bethune thought herself
                        old and experienced. In reality, her
                        innocence was that of a child, and for the last year or two she had lived
                        under the slavery of a fixed idea. Diana's strange type of beauty had made
                        her, at twenty, the fashion in a little set in London; a set in which famous
                        poets dine, and great painters, who disdain the cheap successes of the Royal
                        Academy, find inspiration for their work. At one such dinner-party, a slim
                        white goddess in a sea-green gown, she had sat opposite the poet Astel
                        Verlase. There had been little speech between them, for Diana Bethune had
                        been awestruck, and the great Verlase was of the order of poets who are not
                        altogether unmindful of the pleasures of the table.
                    ‘Ah, did you once see Shelley plain?’ she had quoted under her breath to her
                        neighbour, but Verlase had overheard the whispered compliment, and from that
                        moment the girl had been under his influence. His was the kind of reputation
                        which imposes on the imagination. Even to the unlettered, his name was
                        already part of English speech. To a young girl enamoured of the writer's
                        craft there was something almost intimidating in the thought of him; and yet gradually, after that night, she
                        had become accustomed to the fact that he was actually interested in her,
                        that he should lend her books, visit her occasionally in the street in
                        Mayfair where she lived, and—more marvellous still—write her many letters.
                        An orphan with enough to live upon, she had only a bookish uncle of whom to
                        ask advice, and Robert Bethune was every whit as proud as his niece that the
                        illustrious poet should sit at their table, write her letters, and take her
                        intellectual training into his hands.
                    Verlase's next volume contained a sonnet-sequence about a certain ‘Lily-maid
                        with wide, calm eyes.’ The little set in which the poet dined when he came
                        to London quickly divined the truth. Tongues wagged about Diana, the younger
                        poets came and sat at her feet, noting what the master admired, and piping
                        minor lays about Verlase's Lily Maid. To them the affair was an idyll, and
                        the existence of the poet's wife—a dipsomaniac, put away in a Home these
                        many years past—only added piquancy to a romantic story. That the poet
                        should have lived more than half a century, and that his love should still
                        be in her teens, mattered nothing to his
                        disciples, nor did it indeed to Verlase and Diana themselves. It was
                        obviously the poet, not the man, whom she worshipped, for personally she had
                        seen little of him. Verlase lived in Surrey with his children, and it was
                        only now and again that he came to London to see a publisher, or attend a
                        literary dinner. It struck her to-day with a strange irony that the man for
                        whom she was refusing so devoted a lover as Forsyth had hardly been in her
                        actual presence more than a score of times.
                    A portrait of the poet stood on the table, just beside her desk. She looked
                        at it again as she fingered the torn fragments of the letter she had written
                        to Forsyth. It was a beautiful head, that of Astel Verlase, with hair
                        already grey, sorrowful eyes, and the full lips of a voluptuary.... How
                        William Forsyth disliked him, resented his appropriation of Diana—William
                        Forsyth, who had declared himself her lover and whose dismissal she had just
                        written and as quickly torn up.
                    Leaning her little square chin on her hands, she thought of the two men.
                        There was the writer she worshipped, with his strange eyes, contradicting his very human lips, his imposing, far-away
                        manner, and his world-wide fame. To look at him was to realise the
                        intoxicating thought that she—her insignificant self—had been much to this
                        man whose name was ever on the lips of the English-speaking world; that she
                        had inspired the famous sonnet-sequence; that she had become, indeed, part
                        of his life. It was true that she rarely thought of him except as the great
                        Verlase: an imposing individuality which had, in some strange, inexplicable
                        way, become intermixed with her own; never as a man who might be her husband
                        or her lover. Like all the world, she knew of the poet's unfortunate
                        marriage, but her curious attachment was of so vague and spiritual a nature
                        that the thought of his wife hardly troubled her.
                    There was no portrait of Forsyth on the table, but she saw him clearly, just
                        as on that leafy June morning when he had been introduced to her in the Row;
                        could see his laughing, admiring eyes as they quickened their pace and
                        galloped their horses, side by side under the umbrageous trees. Laughter,
                        exercise, and open-air, a sense of physical
                        well-being—these were the things she associated with her younger lover. But
                        Diana had only known him a few months, and he had no such intellectual
                        influence over her as the poet Verlase.
                    The grey brick wall and the patch of leaden sky held no answer to her
                        questionings. The girl took up her pen and another sheet of note-paper.
                    ‘ Dear William,’ she began, and then she threw down her pen with a sudden
                        burst of laughter. ‘William looks ridiculous,’ she thought, ‘it suggests
                        Shakespeare—or a coachman! Why do I always laugh when I think of him? There
                        are so few people who make one feel gay. He is a dear,’ she added
                        thoughtfully, gazing at the blank sheet of letter-paper, ‘and yet I am going
                        to give him the greatest pain a woman can give the man who loves her. It is
                        im-possible, I can't! He cares for me so. And I don't know, after all....
                        Suppose it were the best thing for every one?’ pleaded an inward voice. Her
                        gaze fell on the photograph at her elbow. The strange eyes seemed to look at
                        her sternly, rebuking her woman's capriciousness, and exacting a disciple's
                        homage.
                    
                    The girl rose perplexed from the writing-table, and walked to the fireplace,
                        where she crouched down in a favourite attitude on the fender-stool, letting
                        the blaze scorch her pale cheek. Yes, she would write William Forsyth a
                        little letter saying she had been taken by surprise, and asking for time to
                        think. That, at any rate, would soften it. She would say nothing definite,
                        nothing which would wound him, to-day. And she hated herself for this
                        feminine subterfuge, for Diana was, in ordinary circumstances, transparently
                        truthful. The girl was still crouching there when the door opened, and the
                        butler announced, in a deeply deferential and impressive whisper, ‘Mr. Astel
                        Verlase!’
                    The great poet stood in the doorway, a trifle thinner than when she had last
                        seen him some six weeks ago, but with the grand manner which imposed so much
                        on every one who was privileged to meet him. Diana sprang up, blushing with
                        pleasure and excitement, and ran forward, with both hands outstretched.
                    The butler retired, discreetly closing the door.
                    Verlase took both the little hands, 
                            hold-
                            holding
                         ing her with his curious gaze.
                        Then he slowly raised one of them to his lips. It was characteristic of the
                        man that he did not bend his head, but drew the white fingers up to his own
                        level.
                    ‘ My child!’ he murmured. Diana dropped her eyes, and led him to an armchair
                        by the fire. Then she took her old place again on the fender-stool, and
                        waited, dutifully, for the great man to speak. Verlase paused, as if
                        thinking of something painful. Presently he passed his hand over his
                        forehead, and smiled his rather rare smile.
                    ‘My child?’ he repeated gravely and questioningly.
                    Diana leant forward, fascinated by his look.
                    ‘Yes,’ she said. 'What—is—it?’
                    ‘You must come to me now, Diana,’ he said. ‘It must be so.’
                    ‘What? I don't understand,’ she stammered, frightened as if some calamity
                        were about to befall her.
                    ‘She is dead,’ he said, in a toneless whisper.
                    ‘Your wife?’
                    ‘Yes. A month ago now. We won't talk of it. She had, indeed, been dead to me for more than ten years. The children
                        don't even know of it. They thought her gone years ago. She was unworthy of
                        them—unworthy of me.’
                    ‘Ah! but how terrible it all sounds,’ said the girl, with her quickly roused
                        sympathy. ‘Your wife is dead!’
                    ‘My child,’ said Verlase, stroking back her pale hair, ‘you shall teach me
                        what a beautiful thing it is to be alive.’
                
                
                    II
                    THE musty fly containing Diana and her uncle rumbled up the
                        hill.
                    It was a bleak March day, with no sign as yet of vernal budding. The
                        whistling wind swept the pinkish-drab earth of the newly-turned fields, and
                        against the wide, sad-coloured sky the shivering elms stretched their naked
                        branches. A stray primrose or two only added to the desolateness of the
                        scene. As yet, the birds were mute.
                    From the little Surrey railway station to the home of the poet was something
                        near a mile. As they neared the house, Diana turned her head and looked back on to the red roofs of a Surrey village,
                        then to a sweep of gorseland, and farther on to a line of blue hills which
                        melted into the vague grey of the horizon. Diana gave a little sigh of
                        relief. She was one of those women who are sensitive to outward things.
                        Whatever the house was like, the outlook was superb. Unfortunately the
                        house, which they lighted on suddenly at a turn of the road, revealed
                        itself, primarily, as a gabled villa of that pseudo-Gothic style which
                        sprang up over the land in the mid-Victorian era, with French windows
                        opening, under an iron verandah, on to a prim gravelled terrace bordered
                        with narrow, empty flower-beds, a foreground being supplied by clumps of
                        speckled evergreens.
                    The poet came out to meet them, with a felt wide-awake in his hand. It had
                        struck the young girl as a little strange that her lover should not have
                        been at the station, but Verlase, who limped perceptibly, pleaded a slight
                        indisposition. Indeed, he looked grayer and older in the searching outdoor
                        light, for she had seen him only, hitherto, deceptively illumined by the
                        pink-shaded wax-candles of London dinner-tables, or in the equally discreet shadows of her own
                        drawing-room. Nevertheless, she had a little thrill as he pressed her hand,
                        for did he not look more human, more approachable, with his worn look, and
                        this background of smug British villadom, so different from anything she had
                        ever pictured as his home?
                    There were other faces besides that of the poet: the three children, who
                        lurked in the little hall, regarding their future step-mother with curious
                        and somewhat astonished eyes. Ethelred—the boy—a pert lad of thirteen, gazed
                        with naïve curiosity at the slim young lady who had undertaken to rule their
                        home. Edgarda, the eldest girl, who was turned fourteen, had dust-coloured
                        hair dragged back from a portentous-looking forehead, and already wore
                        spectacles over her short-sighted eyes. The youngest, Ermyntrud, an
                        unhealthy-looking child of eleven, eyed Diana with undisguised malice. The
                        future Mrs. Verlase was fond of children, but she felt instinctively that it
                        would be a difficult task to ingratiate herself with Ermyntrud.
                    ‘Are you going to be our new mother?’ said Edgarda solemnly, advancing and 
                            hold-
                            holding
                         ing out her hand. Diana noticed
                        with surprise that this self-contained child did not offer to kiss her.
                    ‘I—I hope so,’ said Diana, blushing.
                    ‘I trust we shall be friends,’ said Edgarda with some solemnity. ‘You will
                        not find me much trouble. The children,’ with a disdainful glance at the two
                        young ones, ‘are occasionally tiresome. But I have studious habits. I have
                        my hours for doing everything,’ she continued, leading Diana into a small
                        room painted with dull sage-green, while Astel Verlase stopped outside to
                        speak to Mr. Bethune. ‘Come and look at my study. These are my books of
                        reference. Here is a slate, with the time marked out which I am to give to
                        special subjects. At present I am studying Plato. My tutor comes at twelve.
                        But father does not wish me to give so much time to Greek. He would rather I
                        devoted myself to early English literature. I am preparing a monograph on
                        the pre-Chaucerites.’
                    ‘Ah!’ murmured the girl, ‘I see you inherit your father's tastes.’
                    ‘Father says that my brain capacity is abnormal in so young a child,’ said
                        Edgarda modestly. ‘You see I am very young. I have only just completed my fourteenth year.
                    ‘And so clever and studious already!’ laughed Diana, amused at the young
                        girl's solemnity. She bent to kiss her future step-daughter, but the child
                        pretended not to see her gesture, and turned away.
                    ‘ I trust we shall in no way interfere with each other's tastes and
                        intellectual pursuits,’ she said, leading Diana out again into the little
                        hall.
                    ‘I say, are we to call you mother?’ demanded Ethelred bluntly, hanging with
                        all his weight on Diana's arm. It was his special way of showing his
                        admiration, and he approved of his father's choice.
                    ‘Soon, perhaps—and if you will,’ said the bride-elect, with a curious little
                        thrill in her voice. Although the engagement was not yet announced, Verlase
                        was making preparations for a speedy marriage, and in Lincoln's Inn many
                        sheets of parchment were being covered with clerkly writings relating to the
                        ‘Lily Maid's’ dowry. Robert Bethune had been a little astonished at the
                        business apti-tude, the curious display of caution which had been shown on
                        this occasion by the famous author of the sonnet-sequence. Of this, however, as yet, the girl knew
                        nothing.
                    An intensely feminine creature, with a strong maternal instinct, the boy's
                        words made Diana thrill to her finger-tips. And so these strange children,
                        so soon to be very near to her, would call her by that tenderest of all
                        names!
                    ‘Ermyntrud wants to know if you've brought us any presents?’ continued the
                        boy with a snigger. ‘She's an awful little pig, is Ermyntrud. You ought to
                        have stuffed her with sweets if you want her to like you.’
                    ‘Oh, what a lie!’ shouted the younger girl, seizing her brother by the wrist
                        and twisting it viciously. ‘You're a beastly story-teller. You are, you are,
                        you are!’ she screamed, working herself into a passion.
                    ‘Criky, what a temper we're in,’ said Ethelred derisively, hopping on one
                        foot to the other, with his hands in his pockets. The girl ended with a
                        vicious scream, and ran upstairs, where she was heard banging-to a door.
                    ‘She's always like that,’ said Ethelred calmly. ‘You won't see her again
                        to-day. She'll sulk, and she won't eat, and then father will get in a jolly wax with her—and oh,
                        my eye, you must look out for squalls!’
                    ‘Then why put her out, my dear boy,’ said Diana kindly, ‘if you know that
                        sort of thing vexes her?’
                    ‘Ugh! if you knew how beastly dull it is down here, with father taking care
                        of his digestion all the time, and Edgarda poking over those beastly old
                        books, and nothing for a chap to do that's worth doing—why, you'd like a row
                        now and again, just to enliven things a little.’
                    ‘Don't you go to school?’ said Diana, who was already feeling anxious. The
                        vista of her home-life was beginning to look clouded.
                    ‘No fear! Father doesn't like schools. We have a tutor. He's got sandy hair,
                        so we call him “Carrots.” He's in love with his landlady's daughter in the
                        village. We chaff him all the time. He's a bally fool. Oh, I say, Miss
                        Diana, come and look at my lop-eared rabbits.’
                    The girl was dragged away.
                    She was kept out more than an hour in the bleak garden, inspecting
                        rabbit-hutches. There was the pear-tree, too, in which—according to
                        Ethelred's unsupported 
                            state-
                            statement
                         ment—he performed prodigious
                        feats of climbing during the summer months; and the stable, in which stood a
                        piebald pony, and the small governess-cart which the children were allowed
                        to drive. There was no stabling for another horse—and riding was Diana's
                        only passion. Her heart sank. A surly-looking man—half gardener, half
                        coachman—came out and stared at the two. She was beginning to feel tired and
                        chilled.
                    ‘Where is your father, Ethelred?’ she asked, as they turned at last towards
                        the house. The boy was still hanging with all his weight on her arm, which
                        was numb with the cold March wind.
                    ‘Oh, father's lying down. He always does in the afternoon. I think he's going
                        to write something quite soon,’ said the younger Verlase, ‘for he's been so
                        jolly cross the last few days. Do you remember his last book?’ continued the
                        boy confidentially; ‘that one with a lot of rot about a Lily Maid? My eye I
                        didn't we all catch it about then! I hate poetry—don't you, Miss Diana?’
                    To which question Miss Bethune was beginning already to feel too dejected to
                        reply.
                    
                    At seven o'clock, dinner was served in a dining-room of modest dimensions,
                        but hung with old tapestries and furnished with Early English furniture of
                        the severest and most Saxon simplicity. The two elder children appeared,
                        Edgarda taking the head of the table and blinking solemnly through her
                        pince-nez. She looked pale and over-worked, in a dress of cinnamon-brown,
                        fashioned like an Anglo-Saxon garment.
                    As for the poet, he always looked his best in evening dress, and Diana's
                        spirits rose again as she sat and gazed at the hero of her dreams, trying to
                        realise that she was here, under his own roof, sitting at his table, the
                        companion of his children, about to be what she had never dreamed possible,
                        and that was—his wife. But Verlase sat next to her, handsome enough, but
                        with a peevish expression on his face which she had never seen there. She
                        noticed that, when serving the soup, he took none himself. What could have
                        annoyed him? Had she already done something which could vex
                        him? She searched her conscience, but could think of nothing. She had even
                        dressed herself in a gown which he had once told her that he liked.
                    
                    And yet here was Astel Verlase drumming with one hand on the table, eating
                        nothing, and saying no word. Robert Bethune started a discussion on a
                        certain new poet whom the reviewers had lately discovered.
                    ‘I told you, Edgarda,’ said the poet, interrupting in an irritable tone,
                        ‘never to allow the servants to forget to place toast on the table beside my
                        plate. Bread, as you are aware, I cannot touch. If you suffered in the same
                        way in which I do, you would be more considerate of your father's
                        health.’
                    An anxious, agitated parlourmaid hurried forward with the toast-rack, and
                        Verlase, having helped himself to a dose of patent digestive medicine in a
                        tablespoon, left the bottle beside his plate for the rest of the dinner. Mr.
                        Bethune, in his bland way, pretended to take no notice; Diana blushed all
                        over her face and slender throat, and gazed at her plate; Ethelred giggled
                        audibly, and was reproved by an awful look through the shining pince-nez of
                        the child at the head of the table. Diana felt glad when dinner was
                        over.
                    The next morning Verlase took the girl
                        upstairs to see the little sitting-room which was to be hers. Diana gave a
                        comprehensive glance round the somewhat dingy-apartment, which was decorated
                        in the style affected by Morris in those days, and then walked quickly to
                        the window. Below lay the bold sweeping landscape, which had enchanted her
                        on her way up from the station. There, at least, one's horizon opened out.
                        Verlase stood beside her, gazing out, too, on the sweeping lines, the bold
                        colouring of the Surrey hills. The girl slid her hand through his arm, and
                        leant a little, with a tired gesture, for an instant against his shoulder.
                        It was the first spontaneous proof of tenderness she had ever given him. He
                        had always seemed so aloof, so detached, so unapproachable. But to-day she
                        felt mentally weary, and anxious, in a way, for masculine sympathy.
                    From below, in the garden, came the sound of children's wrangling voices, and
                        for an instant there was a scuffling, whirling vision of a boy and a girl in
                        high combat. Then the struggling figures disappeared among the evergreens,
                        and all was quiet again.
                    ‘The young life!’ murmured the poet
                        indulgently. He slid his arm round the girl and drew her to him with a
                        peculiar smile. Diana issued from that embrace with the feelings of a
                        terrified bird. She had not thought of Verlase as an ardent lover. The girl
                        sat down, avoiding his eyes. She glanced round the room at the paper, with
                        its meaningless apples meandering over a sage-green ground, at the faded
                        peacock-blue curtains, and at the autotypes of simpering virgins which
                        covered the walls.
                    ‘I shall have it done up for you, Diana,’ said the poet, with a wave of his
                        hand. ‘Choose your style-your favourite colours.’
                    ‘I think I should like Empire!’ said Diana with a sudden impulse. ‘It is gay,
                        don't you think, in a dull world? Why not,’ she went on, gazing at the
                        dolorous draperies, ‘have little mirrors with fluted gilt frames, and a sofa
                        or two with pretty striped brocades?’
                    Verlase frowned slightly, and murmured something about the ‘meretricious in
                        decoration,’ but he did not dispute the point, and it was finally arranged
                        that the poet and his future bride should run up to town in a couple of
                        days' time and do most of their pre-nuptial shopping.
                
                
                    
                    III
                    THE Tottenham Court Road on a windy March day is hardly an ideal
                        place in which to nurse a waning affection. After two hours spent in
                        different ‘emporiums,’ Diana began to view these preparations for her
                        marriage with bewildered dismay. If she could only be alone, to think!
                    The east wind always affected the great poet's temper, and the wind was
                        decidedly in the east to-day. As for Diana, she would have none of the
                        imitation Empire mirrors which were brought out for her inspection. They
                        were odious, she said, with their glaringly new gilt frames, and their
                        foolish little eagles perched on a gimcrack vase. The sitting-room in Surrey
                        seemed a long way off.... After all, would she ever really live in it? She
                        ended by buying nothing, pleading a headache.
                    ‘You are looking fatigued, my poor child,’ said Verlase, in his elderly,
                        weary voice. ‘We will drive straight to the Incorporated Stores in Long
                        Acre. I have some purchases to make there, and we shall be able to have some
                        lunch.’
                    
                    Inside the big, dingy building they were jostled by a pushing, hurrying,
                        semi-genteel crowd—pale, harassed, over-worked clerks, clergymen's wives,
                        and nondescript people from distant suburbs, who bent over the counter to
                        give addresses in a whisper: ‘Upper Tooting,’ ‘Hornsey Rise,’ ‘Kilburn,’ and
                        the like. There were perspectives of plush frames, of gilt clocks, of
                        Brummagem candlesticks, while round the glass doors, which swung incessantly
                        to and fro, were cheap photogravures and framed oleographs after Eugène de
                        Blaas. There was a never-ceasing tramp of ascending and descending feet. The
                        atmosphere was stale and hot.
                    The two spent half an hour choosing an oil-stove. By this time there were
                        black circles round Diana's eyes.
                    Verlase explained kindly that in future she need not tire herself. It would
                        be sufficient if she came up to the Stores once in ten days or so, and spent
                        an hour there. Of course the meat was superior to the meat they could get in
                        a village butcher's shop, while as to medicines, everything was made up for
                        the household at the chemical department.
                    
                    They sat down at a dingy marble table in the refreshment room. Diana was too
                        tired to eat. She gazed at the rows of profiles—of men in shabby overcoats,
                        of women in meagre furs—hastily munching food. Here and there an
                        anxious-looking hand was raised with a cup of tea or glass of milk. At the
                        next table a family of children in woollen comforters were eating noisily.
                        It was a scene of pathetic respectability, a leaf torn from the pages of
                        half a hundred hopeless, humdrum lives.
                    Diana rose suddenly from the table, leaving her plate untouched.
                    ‘I must go home,’ she entreated. ‘I really don't feel well. It would be
                        better for me to get back to Park Street. Will you call me a cab?’ she said
                        resolutely, astonished at her own decision. Never, she thought, had she
                        desired anything so ardently as to escape from this place, from the man she
                        was with, and to be alone in her own house with leisure to look her future
                        in the face.
                    Seeing the girl's distress and altered looks, Verlase made no ado. At home
                        she would have her maid to look after her, and, as he put her in the cab and
                        pressed her hand tenderly, he told her that
                        he should be at the station to-morrow to meet her, should she feel well
                        enough to take a morning train.
                    The poet raised his hat, smiled a little sadly, and the cab rumbled away.
                    Diana slept soundly that night in her little amber and white bedroom, and in
                        the morning, with the spring sunshine flooding her counterpane, the world
                        seemed a gayer place. The weather had changed. The wind had dropped, and it
                        was a soft spring morning. The maid brought in a letter with her tea. It was
                        from William Forsyth. He had, he wrote, been very badly treated of late. He
                        had seen nothing of her—had heard she was away, but meant to take his chance
                        of finding her in on his way to the Row that morning. If the gods were kind
                        Diana would ride with him once again, as they used to do. At any rate he
                        would be with her at eleven.
                    At eleven! And it was ten now. She jumped out of bed, calling for her bath,
                        and feeling unreasonably elated. ‘Send round to the stables and say I shall
                        want Flyaway at eleven; and get out my best habit,’ cried the girl. ‘No, not
                        a sailor hat. I hate sailor hats and loose coats. I want to look smart, very smart; nicer than any one in the Row
                        this morning. And you'll have to wave my hair, Sarah. It looks dreadful. I
                        look a frump.’
                    She was standing, all ready, whip in hand, when Forsyth was announced. How
                        charming, and young, and gay he looked in his riding dress, as he stood for
                        an instant framed by the doorway, with his clean-shaven face showing a ruddy
                        brown against the clear white of his collar and tie. It must have been
                        something in her eyes which made him step forward eagerly, after shutting
                        the door and giving a cautious look round.
                    ‘How sweet you look,’ he said, seizing her wrists and gazing at her steadily
                        with tender eyes.
                    She dropped her lids, and murmured something unintelligible, and in an
                        instant the young man had her in his arms.
                    ‘I—I have been making such a mistake,’ she said presently in a repentant
                        voice, gently disengaging herself.
                    ‘What about, my darling?’
                    ‘Oh, that—that letter I wrote to you. I didn't know then, that I—that
                        we—’
                    ‘Didn't you? My other heart! I knew it all
                        along. I was only waiting. Didn't you know I should wait?’
                    ‘But, William—’
                    ‘Billy!’
                    ‘Oh, Billy, then! Do you—do you really think we shall get on together?’
                    ‘I'm willing to risk it.’
                    ‘And we shall know lots of nice people, sha'n't we? Nice, silly, cosy people,
                        I mean.’
                    ‘Oh, not the clever lot, eh?’
                    ‘N—no. And we shall be quite poor, sha'n't we, Billy?’
                    ‘Nine hundred a year between us. Genteel poverty, mitigated by Venetian glass
                        and Norwegian silver (wedding presents, sweetheart!) and a cook whom we
                        shall have trained. As for dresses, a dozen yards of Indian silk, and my
                        girl looks like a goddess.’
                    ‘You're a stupid boy,’ said Diana loftily. ‘You know absolutely nothing about
                        domestic economy.’
                    ‘I know I love you.’
                    Below, in the sunshiny Mayfair street, the horses were impatiently pawing the
                        flags. Diana threw up the window, and a whiff of intoxicating spring air met
                        their nostrils.
                    ‘I forgot,’ said the girl suddenly. ‘I've
                        got to write a letter. Billy, I'm supposed to be—to be staying with Mr.
                        Astel Verlase. I'll tell you all about it some day.’
                    Forsyth hardly heard her. He was admiring the delicious lines of her neck,
                        and the little blond curls frothing round her collar, as she sat there
                        busily scribbling at her desk.
                    ‘Have you told him to go to the devil, Di?’ said the young man, lazily
                        watching her through half-closed eyes. He was accustomed to tease her about
                        imaginary adorers.
                    ‘He won't do that,’ she said, as a vision crossed her mind of the
                        Incorporated Stores. Then she folded, stamped, and addressed her letter.
                    ‘Now I am ready,’ she said. He bent and kissed the flower-like mouth.
                    And the young man and the young girl were assailed by the subtle odour of
                        spring as they stepped out together into the open air.
                
            
            
                
                ITS OWN REWARD
                
                    
                        ‘Walking, walking still, the feet are weary; the city is yet far off, a
                            tent is erected by the roadside; say, who is to blame?
                    
                    THE SÁKHIS OF KABIR.
                
                
                    I
                    ‘AREN'T men beasts!’ cried Lily, banging the imitation-ivory brush
                        in her hand on to the dressing-table. ‘I'll pay them out some day, see if I
                        don't!’
                    The girl, who did everything with a lavish hand, had turned on the two
                        gas-lamps over the dressing-table at full tap, and the flaring lights
                        revealed the strange likeness of the two sisters. They were young and
                        curiously pretty. Each had an appealing, wistful look—a look that is often
                        seen on the faces of young girls; a look which asks of Life its great
                        secret. So obvious was the rôe for which
                        Nature had intended the two Waltons, that the sight of either of them evoked
                        a vision of a young mother caressing a little child. The sisters were of middle height. fair-skinned, and delicately
                        round in the bust. Lily's mouth had firmer lines; there was more character
                        in her face, and her eyes, now and again, had a curious expression, a look
                        which was merely mischievous now, but which might develop, with increasing
                        years, into a somewhat reckless audacity. These were the only apparent
                        differences; looks and temperament were nearly identical.
                    ‘How are you going to do that?’ demanded the younger girl gravely, from her
                        hunched-up position on the bed. ‘Seems to me it'll be hard enough to earn
                        our own livings.’ Their Aunt Charlotte, she reminded Lily, wanted ten
                        shillings a week for their keep, and to-morrow morning they must go. It had
                        all been so sudden that neither of them had had time to realise their
                        position. And yet the father's bankruptcy, the drapery business in the hands
                        of receivers, and then his quickly-following death from influenza—only six
                        months after their mother had succumbed under an operation;—all had paled
                        for Amy before the catastrophe of Frederick Johnson's desertion. It seemed
                        ages ago now—and yet it was only three
                        days—that he had written to say that, owing to changed circumstances, his
                        parents were reluctantly obliged to withdraw their consent to the match.
                        ‘Their consent indeed!’ cried Lily, on reading the letter; ‘he means the
                        £s.d. He's a sweep!’ But Amy, womanlike, found excuses for her lover.
                        Indeed, she talked of him and of their marriage continually.
                    ‘Oh, Lily, that white satin with the Honiton lace would have been sweetly
                        pretty! Poor mother,’ she went on with a toneless laugh, ‘used to be always
                        saying what pretty brides we'd make—long before my wedding day was as good
                        as fixed at St. Thomas's. But that's all over now.’
                    ‘Yes. That's all over,’ said Lily, a little brutally. ‘But Mr. Rosenberg is
                        going to help me,’ she added, with sudden pink cheeks.
                    ‘Mr. Rosenberg!’ murmured Amy distrustfully. She had never been sure why the
                        smart young stockbroker, with his chambers in Jermyn Street, came out so
                        often to Kilburn. What had he to do with their little world? True, he paid
                        Lily a good deal of attention; but when a young man in their circle paid
                        attention to a young woman, it meant only
                        one thing, domesticity:—and of marriage Amy was pretty certain that Lily's
                        admirer had said nothing. She remembered how her mother, up to the last, had
                        always been of opinion that ‘that Rosenberg meant no good, hanging about
                        Lily, keeping better men off, and never coming to the point.’ The late Mrs.
                        Walton, indeed, had objected to Mr. Rosenberg from every point of view. She
                        disliked him for being a foreigner, for driving showy ladies in his phaeton
                        in the Park, for having a permanent stall at the Gaiety, and for going to
                        Paris twice or thrice a year. ‘Why,’ she argued, ‘couldn't Lily choose some
                        nice young fellow in Tea at the Kilburn Cinderellas, as Amy had done?’
                    ‘Yes, he's been awfully, awfully kind ... I can't tell you. He's
                        taken such an interest in all our affairs; he even made a little
                        money—thirty pounds or so—on the Stock Exchange for me, with a five-pound
                        note which I had by me. And he knows all the managers in London; he's going
                        to get me a part—just a little one, at first, of course. Perhaps it will
                        have to be in the provinces, to begin with.’
                    ‘You want to be an actress? Oh, Lily, don't. What would father and mother have
                        said?’
                    This, then, was the outcome of Lily's surreptitious going to matinées when
                        she was supposed to be drinking tea at Clapham or Norwood. Amy herself had
                        never been in a theatre. The girls had been brought up in strict Dissenting
                        principles.
                    ‘Can't help it now,’ said the elder girl doggedly. ‘Don't make a fuss.’ Then,
                        in a more soothing tone, she urged upon her sister the need for one of them
                        to make money, painting the sordid monotony of life in Camden Town with Aunt
                        Charlotte, and Amy's habitual delicacy, which made her what she called a
                        ‘port-wine-and-cod-liver-oil girl.’ ‘ Leave it to me, you young silly,’ she
                        wound up, ‘to make both our fortunes.’
                    And Amy, feeling that sleep, just now, was more important than argument,
                        began to fold up her petticoats methodically, and then, slipping into bed
                        with a little shiver and a repressed sigh, she closed her eyelids.
                    After that there was complete silence. But for a long time Lily moved
                        restlessly about the room, gathering her personal treasures together. She
                        had already found what she wanted for the moment—a cheap lodging for a week in Bloomsbury. The company in
                        which Mr. Rosenberg had found her a tiny part was starting for the North in
                        ten days' time. Once started in her theatrical career, she would soon be
                        able to earn enough for them both. Instinctively, she was sure of her youth,
                        her good looks, her charm.... All day long she had felt a hot glow of
                        indignation at Frederick Johnson's treatment of her sister. She longed to
                        revenge Amy, to see her married to some one richer, more ‘gentlemanly’ than
                        Fred.... She saw herself a famous actress, rich, successful, able to dower
                        the younger girl. All their recent troubles, especially Fred's defection,
                        had roused the defiant note in her character.
                    Mechanically she went round collecting the things she meant to take with
                        her—framed photographs of her father, mother, and sister; a bronze kitten
                        playing a fiddle; a dried rose kept in a pink silk bag, given by some
                        youthful sweetheart; some soiled ball-programmes, and, most precious of all,
                        some twenty photographs, secretly accumulated one by one, of Mrs. Patrick
                        Campbell.
                    When she had done, the girl was tired. It was a muggy autumn night, and the
                            air was close. Crossing to the window,
                        she threw up the sash, and the dank air streamed into the gas-laden room. A
                        clock, with much deliberation, struck eleven.
                    Long after the last stroke had died away the elder girl stood there
                        listening. What she heard was a low murmur, the aggregation of a thousand
                        sounds, sinister in its persistency. It was the roar of London.
                
                
                    II
                    LIFE with Aunt Charlotte in Camden Town bore hardly on Amy. Miss
                        Charlotte Walton was a thin-lipped, thrifty woman, who lived in a house
                        giving on to a vista of railway arches. There were intermittent lodgers, as
                        well as a continual fret about the minor domestic economies. Hardly a day
                        passed, too, without scathing remarks being made about the absent Lily, who
                        was now in Sunderland, in lodgings with another ‘young lady’ of the company,
                        where they were busy rehearsing the Christmas pantomime. Lily had the fairy
                        queen's part. Unfortunately, she had only twelve lines: but then her costume was dazzling. Later on she
                        wrote that she was understudying the ‘principal boy,’ and then that she was
                        out of the bill, owing to an obstinate cold on the chest. Amy wanted to go
                        north at once, but she had no money, neither could she leave the situation
                        which she had managed to get—that of under clerk in the office of a
                        newly-floated company, where from nine in the morning till six at night the
                        young girl sat addressing envelopes. On three evenings a week she made a
                        hasty meal at an Aerated Bread Shop and went to have her typewriting
                        lesson.
                    At home, in the little house in Camden Town, there was waiting for her, on
                        other nights, her aunt's pinched visage hovering over a teapot and a
                        herring. If she were ten minutes late there were sour looks. Often she was
                        too tired to eat. The girl, being delicate, had been accustomed to abundant,
                        nourishing food—to cups of chocolate, beef-tea, and basins of arrowroot when
                        she went to bed. Her aunt's wrath seemed to be especially excited against
                        her because she knew that her niece, in addition to ‘putting on airs about
                        her food,’ was fretting about Frederick Johnson.
                    
                    Indeed, Amy s ‘disappointment’ had proved more poignant, and even more
                        lasting, than she had thought possible. And yet she could remember the time
                        when the affection had all been on the side of the man, for Amy, when she
                        met him, was at an age when admiration is more to a woman than passion; but
                        by the time the approximate date of their marriage was fixed, it was the
                        girl who enveloped her lover with an all-absorbing ardour.
                    And now, in the grey blurred streets, in crowded fusty omnibuses, alone at
                        night in her draughty bedroom, she found herself continually thinking of the
                        young man's sleek head and satisfied smile. She tried to picture, at all
                        hours of the day and evening, what her lover was doing.... From half-past
                        nine to half-past six he was, of course, in the City. She wondered if he
                        still went to the Kilburn Town Hall dances. Perhaps—she secretly hoped—he
                        played whist instead: he had talked of joining a small club. On Saturdays he
                        always made one of the Willesden Harriers. They had paper-chases all the
                        winter long. Once, when they were engaged, she had met him flying by, in a
                        suburban lane, the type, to her, of an English athlete.
                    
                    Starved in body and soul, the young girl clung to the memory of her one
                        happiness. In all the hundreds of novels she had read, it was always argued
                        that—for a woman, at least—one love was sufficient for a lifetime. She
                        brooded on this in wakeful nights, and in the intervals of addressing
                        prospectuses at the office. The company which she innocently helped to
                        promote was one for the formation of Happy Homes in Manitoba; that somewhat
                        intemperate region being represented, in glowing terms, as especially
                        suitable for young couples about to marry. Amy sometimes wondered if it
                        would be any use addressing one of the company's prospectuses to Fred: if he
                        still cared enough for her to start a new life together in Canada; but this
                        hope was sometimes doubled with a misgiving, which pulled at her very
                        heart-strings, that Mr. Frederick Johnson was not one of those adventurous
                        Britons who make pioneers—that he was, in a word, too fond of his easy City
                        life, the bargains made over glasses of sherry, the suburban dances, the
                        runs with the Willesden Harriers....
                    Meantime, January had come and gone, and for a month there had been no
                            news of Lily. When the expected letter
                        arrived, Amy hid it. The envelope bore a strange-looking foreign stamp,
                        which turned out, on closer inspection, to be that of the principality of
                        Monaco. Lily wrote in the highest spirits. Her dear little Amy was not to
                        worry about her. She had been very ill at the lodgings in Sunderland, but
                        Mr. Rosenberg had come up directly he had heard of it, had had her removed
                        to the hotel, and had called in the two cleverest doctors in the town. They
                        had ordered her south, and here she was at the grandest hotel in Monte
                        Carlo. Adolph had been so good, so devoted; she didn't know how to thank
                        him. He insisted she shouldn't work for a time; later on he would get her a
                        part at a London theatre.... She was confident that it would all come right
                        in the end; that once they got back to England they would be married.
                        Anyhow, he was very good and devoted. Lily would never be able to repay
                        him.... They had been to Nice, where the shops were exquisite; but oh! so
                        dear. She had got all French clothes now. She was a great success when she
                        went to the gaming-tables. Adolph liked people to look at her.... And she was still, and always, her Amy's loving
                        sister—Lily.
                    This letter marked a turning-point in the younger Walton's life. Up to now
                        she had imagined that some day the two sisters would live together; that
                        Lily would become a successful actress, and that she herself would scrape
                        and save enough to help in a little home. Who knew? Perhaps some day Fred
                        might have come back to her.... Concealing the letter from Aunt Charlotte,
                        she went about her business all day with pinched, dry lips, and lack-lustre
                        eyes. At the office, Amy addressed quite a tremendous number of ‘Happy Home’
                        prospectuses. Work had to be done, whatever happened. Bread had to be
                        earned. Some earned it one way, some another. And then, while her pen
                        travelled mechanically over the long envelopes, there were vague visions of
                        that strange little place in the South of Europe to which Lily had been
                        taken—the palms, the terraces hanging over a cobalt sea, the gaming-tables,
                        and the ladies with outrageous hats.... Amy had seen pictures of Monte Carlo
                        in illustrated papers, and, more highly coloured, in the grimy depths of the
                        Underground Railway. ...It looked so pretty
                        that she had a puritanical feeling that it was not right to go there.... No,
                        much better go to cold, far-northern Manitoba, where men took their wives,
                        and earned their bread by the sweat of their brow.... And yet Lily was
                        always right; she was so strong, so determined, so resourceful; everybody at
                        home had always looked up to Lily. And so it was that she felt neither
                        shocked, nor sore, nor indignant; she had only an overwhelming desire to go
                        and find comfort, consolation, and protection, as she had so often found it,
                        in the arms of her lover. And this desire took possession of her when she
                        had need of all th dignity, the self-repression, the self-renunciation which
                        she could command.
                    At lunch-time she could swallow nothing. It was a Saturday, and the office
                        shut at two. Usually, the child went home, but to-day she was strangely
                        restless. An omnibus took her towards Kilburn, and then, mechanically, her
                        steps led past the large shop—now turned into a Universal Store—past the
                        square, smug-looking house with the garden where they used to play tennis;
                        then on into the Willesden lanes, for a
                        secret hope had mastered her. This was the day that the Harriers had their
                        paper-chase. Perhaps she might catch sight of Fred.
                    The roads were damp and muddy. Through the bare branches of the elms was seen
                        here and there a prim gabled villa, with dingy brick walls shutting in a
                        dank garden. Farther on there were vistas of half-built terraces, and all
                        the desolation of ragged, unfinished suburbs. She stopped in front of one of
                        these half-built rows of houses. At one end of Beaconsfield Terrace there
                        were gaping windows like empty eye-sockets, yellow planks in place of steps,
                        mounds of brick, and milk-like pools of lime. Towards No. 15, however, the
                        houses were finished: some were even occupied.... No. 21—that was to have
                        been their home, hers and Fred's! How often they had come to look at it
                        together!... She saw, with a nameless pang, that some one had taken the
                        house. Yes, there were ‘tapestry’ curtains, a plant in the drawing-room
                        window, and, higher up, a baby's fat, vacant face pressed against a
                        pane....
                    Amy walked hastily away, her head bent. Life was very hard.
                    
                    And then, at the turn of the road, the girl's heart began to thump beneath
                        her jacket. A line of running figures, pink below, white above, came
                        suddenly in view. Some looked furtively over their shoulders as they ran,
                        their elbows working to and fro with the regularity of machines. Surely this
                        one in front was Fred? He was so quick and strong; he was always the
                        first—was not this his sleek brown head?
                    The Harriers were past in a flash, their rhythmical footfalls hardly sounding
                        in the mud. They had gone, but there had been nothing to gladden the girl's
                        longing eyes, or to fill her empty heart. Fred was not there. It was past
                        seven o'clock when she got home, and the voice of Aunt Charlotte was raised
                        in loud complaint as she pulled open the hall door.
                    ‘I can't make tea for you again. I've put three spoons in the pot already.
                        You ought to be ashamed of yourself, you ought. There's your bloater
                        stone-cold. It's a per-fect sin, wasting good food.’
                    Amy, exasperated, turned suddenly upon her.
                    ‘You'll drive me crazy! You're always at me! Let me go!’ shrieked the
                            young girl, as Aunt Charlotte caught
                        her by the arm. The elder woman stood amazed, as Amy rushed upstairs and
                        banged her bedroom door. At any rate, whatever her faults, the child had
                        always been sweet-tempered.
                    ‘ The girl's going out of her mind!’ said Miss Walton, with a certain air of
                        triumph. Later on, however, as Amy did not come down again, her heart
                        softened towards her niece; for all night long she could hear the distant
                        sound of sobs—of sobs which were carefully deadened by a meagre pillow.
                
                
                    III
                    AMY only went once or twice to the little house in Brompton in which
                        Lily was installed. It was difficult to avoid her aunt's questions, and
                        moreover the younger girl would only go when she knew Mr. Rosenberg was
                        away. Once, when she had trudged, after tea, most of the way there, she had
                        seen the brougham emerging from the little garden as she came up to the
                        gate. There was Lily, with her blond hair artificially waved, and wrapped in a cloak of yellow brocade and
                        sables. Two semi-bald young men, who had obviously dined, were laughing as
                        they bent towards her. It was a brief vision of flushed, complacent faces,
                        of cigarette-smoke, of diamond studs, and fur-lined wraps half thrown
                        open.
                    The young girl was so ashamed that she went home again without making a sign.
                        After that, she would not go to Brompton. Lily had to meet her at an Aerated
                        Bread Shop or in Kensington Gardens if she wanted to see her; but she was
                        busy enough in these days, having a tiny part at a London theatre now. There
                        were pictures of her in those weekly papers which exploit the chorus-girl,
                        and she appeared as a ‘Type of English Beauty’ in some of the Regent Street
                        windows. Sometimes Lily wrote, on heavily-scented paper, with a sprawling
                        gilt monogram.... Everything was all right, she said, and Adolph was
                        devoted; only the parents had been horrid about the question of marriage....
                        It would be all right in time, and then Amy might come to her. Meantime,
                        wouldn't she accept a little ermine muff, or one of her frocks—the least
                        showy of them?
                    
                    But the younger Walton would accept nothing. She had become, during the year
                        which followed her sister's journey to Monte Carlo, moody and desponding.
                        Often she passed a whole evening without speaking. When she went to bed she
                        sat, escaping from the sordid monotony of real life, devouring penny
                        novelettes far into the night.
                    With the next new year her occupation threatened to cease. The Company for
                        the Promotion of Happy Homes in Manitoba was about to be wound up, and the
                        young girl had to find work elsewhere. She had learned typewriting and
                        shorthand by now, and for the next few weeks Amy's childish face and shining
                        hair were seen lurking in the entrances to City offices. Eventually she got
                        a temporary engagement.
                    And soon she had a new anxiety. The early spring, with rumours of war,
                        brought disaster in the particular market engineered by Mr. Rosenberg.
                        Things became so bad that he was ‘hammered’ in the House, and then there was
                        a sudden flight to Brussels, leaving the Brompton villa and other luxuries
                        unpaid for. Lily was left behind; and Mr. Adolph Rosenberg, taking his
                            financial talents to a foreign Bourse,
                        did not return to London.
                    Amy flew, now, to the Brompton villa; but she found the place being sold up,
                        and no trace of Lily. She wrote, however, soon, from Huddersfield, where she
                        was performing in a successful musical comedy which had gone on tour. A
                        little later there was a letter from Bradford. Lily had given up the
                        stage—there was very little chance of getting on unless you had influence;
                        and she had, as a matter of fact, accepted the post of housekeeper to an
                        elderly gentleman, a retired woollen manufacturer, who had a lonely but
                        ‘magnificently appointed’ house overlooking the moors.
                    Every evening now, to Aunt Charlotte's surprise, Amy sat scribbling letters.
                        Sometimes she tore up everything she had written, but other times the
                        letters were addressed, stamped, and posted the same night. A fixed idea had
                        taken possession of her: all might yet be well, she thought, if she only
                        explained matters to Fred.... She would tell him everything—how hard she
                        worked, how unhappy she was in the dingy house in Camden Town, how she was
                        starving for a little sympathy, a little love.... But no answers came to her letters. Perhaps he had gone
                        away. Well, she would send post-cards. Some one would read them, and, in
                        pity's sake, send them on. So Amy wrote now on post-cards. And every day, as
                        she caught the omnibus to the City, or bent over the typewriting machine at
                        the office, she hoped against hope for an answer. He couldn't have
                        forgotten, she argued. They had been so much to each other; she could
                        remember every one of his ardent phrases, the very sensation of his
                        caresses.... No, no, it wasn't possible that he could have forgotten
                        already.... Amy's eyes were sunken and flickering now; her lips drawn and
                        parched. When the senior clerk spoke roughly to her—for she was forgetful in
                        these days—she would straightway dissolve into tears. The senior clerk was
                        disgusted: this was the result of employing girls in business offices, he
                        said; for his part, he thought that women should be at home, attending to
                        their household duties. And then, whistling a popular air, he would change
                        his coat and hurry off to keep an appointment at a music hall.
                    
                    One afternoon, while Amy was finishing her
                        last week at the office, a prosperous-looking young gentleman with a sleek
                        head rapped at Miss Walton's knocker, and, ringing the bell in addition, was
                        hurriedly answered by Aunt Charlotte herself. Mr. Frederick Johnson, who
                        appeared somewhat sheepish and embarrassed, had called to make a complaint.
                        Of course, he was naturally deeply sorry for all that had happened in the
                        past, but if this annoyance of letters and post-cards did not cease, he
                        would have, he declared with some irritation, to take measures to protect
                        himself. The fact was, that he was—well, he was a married man now; had taken
                        a house in Elgin Avenue, Harrow Road, and, as his wife was in delicate
                        health, the doctor had expressly forbidden her to be annoyed or excited. In
                        a word, Mr. Frederick Johnson was extremely sorry; but couldn't the past be
                        buried, and Miss Amy Walton—to whom he wished every happiness—be induced to
                        put it out of her mind?
                    A sudden wave of feminine sympathy swept over the grim-featured old woman.
                        She not only showed Mr. Johnson the door, but added ‘a bit of her mind’ to
                        the lover who had behaved so unhandsomnely. But, as it turned out, it was not the wisest thing to
                        do. A few weeks later, they were threatened with a summons before a police
                        magistrate, which was only staved off by Aunt Charlotte's promises that
                        nothing the child wrote should be posted. The news of Fred Johnson's
                        marriage had no such sobering effect on the girl as that young gentleman had
                        appeared to hope. As a matter of fact, she did not believe it, thinking that
                        Aunt Charlotte had invented the whole thing to annoy her.
                    There was a perpetual farce kept up about the girl's correspondence.
                    ‘Post this letter for me, won't you? I feel too tired to go out to-day.’
                    ‘Yes, my dear. Give it to me.’ Amy sank back on the hard cushions. Her work
                        had stopped, and she had nothing to take her out of doors. Indeed, she
                        hardly left the sofa now.
                    And presently, as the elder woman was hurrying along the sordid streets, she
                        stopped on one of the bridges of the canal, and rested for a moment, gazing
                        down into the slimy water below. Aunt Charlotte had softened during their
                        trouble. She sympathised now with the girl who was with her, the niece who had not ‘disgraced’ her. She would see
                        to it that the child had better food; John had always spoiled his girls
                        ridiculously. Perhaps she ought to have meat twice a day. She would get her
                        a cutlet for her supper, and some of the iron tonic which the chemist kept,
                        ready-made, at the shop round the corner. She had become alarmed now, lest
                        this young creature should not be able to pull through.... In her hand she
                        still held the letter which Amy had given her. With a sigh she tore it into
                        fragments, and let them fall, a fluttering white shower, down into the canal
                        below.
                    Very quickly all trace of them had disappeared, and soon there was only the
                        brown, oily expanse of the sluggish, turgid water-way, down which the barges
                        moved stealthily along to distant midland cities.
                    
                    But if Aunt Charlotte had nearly given up hope, she was reckoning without the
                        resources of Lily.
                    One day in June there drove up, in a four-wheel cab, a handsome, matronly
                        young lady in deep widow's weeds. Amy, with her pale face and scared eyes,
                        fell, sobbing hysterically, into her elder sister's arms.
                    
                    ‘My poor darling,’ cried Lily, ‘how seedy you look! You must come away with
                        me. We'll go to Switzerland, and then to the Riviera. You'll love Cannes. In
                        a few months you'll be quite well. I always knew best how to take care of
                        you. My poor Amy, my sweet!’
                    ‘Are you—is he dead?’ asked Amy, gently touching her sister's expensive
                        crape-trimmed mantle. Lily, she said to herself triumphantly, was capable of
                        anything; even of becoming a rich young widow.
                    ‘Yes,’ she said, gravely. ‘Poor Joseph died ten days ago. We were married
                        shortly before. He has left me everything,’ she added. ‘He was very good to
                        me.... Why, you look better already, darling, just seeing your old Lily
                        again. We'll soon have her as pretty as ever, won't we, Aunt Charlotte?’
                    And Aunt Charlotte, who, like all women of the lower middle-class, was deeply
                        impressed by the appearance of expensive widow's weeds, busied herself in
                        getting out the best tea-things for this magnificent niece.
                    ‘I shall soon find a nice husband for her, once she's got her beautiful
                        colour back,’ rattled on Lily; it's all a question of good looks, and money—especially money,’ added the
                        black-robed lady, dryly.
                    Amy's eyes followed her in wondering admiration round the shabby little room.
                        Now that Lily had come back, all would be right again. She wanted nothing
                        else. Life, after all, was sweet.
                    ‘Do you ever see anything of Fred?’ asked the elder sister presently.
                    ‘Fred married,’ said Miss Walton, casting an anxious look in the direction of
                        Amy. ‘His wife died when the baby was born.’
                    ‘Oh,’ said Lily sententiously. ‘Well, he was never half good enough for Amy,
                        but if she has any fancy for him still, why, it can be arranged,’ she added,
                        with the air of a princess.
                    ‘Oh, Lily! No, no. Let me go away with you, dear. I've been so dreadfully
                        lonely, and I want to get well and strong.... Don't let's ever part
                        again.... Let me go with you.’
                
            
            
                
                A POLITICAL COMEDY
                
                    I
                    THOUGH an editor, he was human. The radiant vision confronting him
                        seemed to illuminate the dingy newspaper office; and he remembered, after
                        she was gone, how clean-cut her profile had appeared, outlined against the
                        brown bricks of the houses on the opposite side of the Strand; the curious
                        glance of her metallic-looking eyes, and even some details of her dress,
                        such as the sumptuous ermine lining to her loose, half-open coat, and a
                        great bunch of Neapolitan violets which permeated the atmosphere of the
                        cheerless little room with their fragrance. Mr. Wentworth Johnson, in his
                        editorial capacity, was accustomed to lady journalists in pince-nez, and navy serge, and the vision was
                        sufficiently bewildering. He was an unimaginative Briton, with a short thick
                        neck and watery blue eyes, and with a
                        somewhat antique collection of British prejudices embedded under the thatch
                        of his close-cropped, dust-coloured hair.
                    He objected, in the first place, to the presence of women in newspaper
                        offices; their place, he used to say, was in the nursery, not in Fleet
                        Street; and as a rule he got out of seeing them. Was there not a sub-editor,
                        whose time was supposed to be at the disposal of lady journalists and women
                        with grievances? It seemed incredible now, but he had even used an
                        unparliamentary phrase when her card had been brought up; it must have been
                        his good angel, he thought, who had whispered that, after all, perhaps he
                        had better see this special intruder. How graceful, how good-looking she
                        was! The editor of the Evening Planet was perhaps inclined to
                        admire the budding floweret rather than the opened rose, and he took her for
                        a girl of three-and-twenty. And the gods laughed softly among themselves as
                        the lady took a chair opposite the editor.
                    ‘I thought,’ she said, in a serious and rather sweet voice, in which there
                        was now and again a little thrill, ‘that I might venture to see you
                        personally.’
                    
                    The sound of her voice was so charming that he waited, smiling, until she
                        spoke again. Across the narrow courtyard could be heard the whirr and thud
                        of the printing machines, turning out the weekly edition of the
                            Planet. It was a kind of ironical, remorseless sound, and
                        made a curious accompaniment to their first interview.
                    ‘I hear from my friend Lady Winchcliffe that you know her very well, and
                        might be able to help me ’
                    ‘Ah! you know Lady Winchcliffe?’ said the editor eagerly. Lady Winchcliffe
                        was a great lady on the Liberal side, to whose parties, at Winchcliffe
                        House, everybody of importance went. ‘Perhaps I have already had the
                        pleasure—Miss—er?’
                    ‘My name is “John Bathurst,”’ she said, with a certain reserve, glancing at
                        the card which she had already sent up, and which was now lying on the
                        editor's desk with that somewhat misleading cognomen written thereon in a
                        large, bold, feminine hand-writing.
                    ‘That is your nom-de-guerre?’ said the
                        editor, taking his snubbing nicely, and wondering if her book—for the
                        radiant vision carried a slender volume in her hand —would prove to be a collection of neurotic
                        verses?
                    ‘I thought it best to take a man's name,’ she said shyly, ‘because no woman
                        is listened to if she writes upon public questions—at any rate, no woman
                        whose name is unknown.... My little book,’ she continued, ‘is on the Free
                        Trade question. I am all right in my statistics; I've been well primed in
                        all that. You've no idea,’ she went on, smiling, ‘what I've been through.
                        I've not only spent weeks in Leeds and Manchester, but I've
                        been to endless dinner-parties there. They have the strangest way of
                        talking; such a curious accent, you can hardly understand what they
                        say.’
                    ‘Very disinterested of you, I'm sure,’ said Mr. Johnson, leaning back,
                        amused, in the editorial chair. ‘And what line do you take?’
                    ‘Oh, Free Food for the people—the poor people, you know.’
                    ‘Well, I'm afraid the Planet doesn't quite take that line.
                        We're Conservative, you see.’
                    And then, for a minute, he felt vaguely perplexed and annoyed. He had always
                        hated these ‘meddling women,’ as he called
                        them in his blunter moments. As a matter of fact, this preoccupation with
                        politics bored and scandalised Mr. Wentworth Johnson. He neither understood
                        nor approved of it. ‘Hang it all,’ he would say at his club, ‘what do the
                        women want? Haven't they got their kitchens and their nurseries, and don't
                        they have chairs when we have got to stand up, and—and any amount of
                        admiration—at any rate while they are young and pretty?’
                    But, oddly enough, these arguments were not put forward on the present
                        occasion. To his astonishment, Mr. Wentworth Johnson found himself curiously
                        anxious to say nothing of which this young politician might not approve.
                    But was, after all, the Evening Planet irrevocably bound to
                        the Tory cause? It had always been largely a literary paper; it received no
                        subsidy from the Conservative party. Only the other day, he remembered an
                        interview he had had with the proprietor, Mr. Julius Friedeberg, who, having
                        had nothing from the Government which was in office—not even a beggarly
                        knighthood, as he expressed it—was turning over in his mind whether he
                        should not take up so popular a question as
                        the Big Loaf and go boldly over to the Radicals. These considerations, of
                        course, were not without their effect on the editor in his manner to John
                        Bathurst. With newspaper proprietors—especially those like Mr. Julius
                        Friedeberg—a man never knew quite what was going to happen....
                    ‘The Planet doesn't take that line,’ she went on in her
                        emotional voice, ‘because it hasn't considered the awful importance of this
                        question of free food. Think of the children—the little, starving children,
                        and what it will mean to them? Why, they are only half alive as it is. I've
                        made my book—it's only a pamphlet, of course—as picturesque and striking as
                        I knew how. If it is taken up—if you take it up—it will wake
                        people up to realities—it will at least make them think.’
                    ‘An Austrian lady—wasn't it?—wrote a book against War,’ replied Wentworth
                        Johnson, playing with a paper-knife as he watched her. ‘It made a great
                        sensation. Shortly after, the Tsar called the Hague Conference together.
                        To-day, we are on the eve of a war between Russia and Japan. Your feminine
                        ideals are hardly practical.’
                    
                    ‘If it were not for women,’ said John Bathurst reproachfully, ‘there would be
                        no ideals left at all.’
                    ‘Well, there is a moment, sometimes, when the public insists on them,’
                        admitted Mr. Wentworth Johnson, in a strictly neutral and editorial manner.
                        ‘I'll see what can be done. The proprietor of the Planet will
                        be here to-morrow. I'll consult him about your pamphlet, and see if the
                        paper is going to take a definite line. And I will see that your book is
                        sent to the proper quarter for review.’
                    ‘I'm so glad that I came,’ said the lady joyously. She got up, feeling at
                        home already, and moved forward slowly to the window, gazing out
                        thoughtfully at the turmoil of the Strand—the ceaseless procession of
                        crowded omnibuses, the shouting newsboys, the motley tide of humanity which
                        swept up and down the street. Her air of leisure, her modishly-fashioned
                        garments, the faint odour which escaped from her muff, made a curious
                        contrast to the dreary surroundings, the monotonous bustle of the newspaper
                        office.
                    Then she turned, stopping suddenly in front of the editorial desk; and,
                        looking him appealingly in the face, she
                        said abruptly: ‘Oh, Mr. Johnson, I do want to have your opinion
                        on my book. I hardly liked coming here to-day,’ she went on, with an
                        adorably shy little glance, ‘for you know I've never been in a newspaper
                        office before; but I wished so much that you might read it yourself—that I
                        should have a real literary opinion on my work.’
                    He felt a curious little thrill all down his back—a thrill which he had
                        somehow never experienced during his interviews with the pince-nez and the blue serges which came so
                        often on weary and interminable quests. The appeal was inordinately
                        flattering.
                    ‘Ah, how good of you! How can I thank you?’ said ‘John Bathurst,’ blushing,
                        when he gallantly announced his intention of reading her book that very
                        night. She looked prettier than ever when she blushed, he noticed.
                    ‘You can thank me,’ he said somewhat nervously, ‘some other day, Miss—er—I
                        beg your pardon-“Mr. Bathurst.”’
                    Their eyes met, and they both smiled.
                    ‘Let it be like that,’ she said. ‘Call me “John Bathurst.”’
                    ‘Very well,’ said the editor. Already there
                        was a link between this beautiful girl and himself. There was a kind of
                        complicity—a guilty secret to be kept. Mr. Wentworth Johnson racked his
                        brain to find a reason for detaining his visitor, even for a few minutes
                        more. There were several people waiting to see him downstairs, for two or
                        three times during the interview the office-boy had been up with cards; but
                        yet he fidgeted about, calling her attention to one or two autograph copies
                        of books by famous authors which were on the bookshelf, and to a signed
                        photograph which stood on the dingy marble mantelpiece. How well-bred she
                        looked, he thought, bending a little to look through her long tortoiseshell
                            lorgnette, with her vaguely expensive
                        air. And he wondered, though he gave no utterance to his thought, why such a
                        pretty women should want to write political pamphlets. Pretty women, he
                        imagined, in his brutal masculine way, had generally something better to
                        do.
                    ‘I'll read the book to-night,’ he reiterated, ‘and if you can manage to call
                        in to-morrow I shall be charmed to talk it over with you. And of course I'll
                        see that it falls into sympathetic hands.’
                    
                    ‘Oh, thanks—thanks so much! I can't come to-morrow; but the day after, would
                        that do? I'm afraid you'll think me all awful nuisance,’ she added, with her
                        enchanting smile; and then, extending her long, delicate, capable-looking
                        hand, she bade him good-bye, and from her rustling silk skirts there
                        escaped, as she stepped, head erect, down the gloomy office staircase, the
                        delicate, yet intoxicating odour of iris.
                
                
                    II
                    WHEN she was gone, Mr. Wentworth Johnson walked thoughtfully back to
                        his desk, answered half-a-dozen letters without thinking much what he was
                        doing, saw the two or three people who had come about work or reviews, and
                        finally corrected the proofs of a couple of articles. Then lie picked up the
                        slender volume. He read on and on. It grew dark in the office, for the
                        winter day had drawn in; and as he sat there, the gas-lamps in the Strand
                        began to make blurred splashes of yellow in the deepening gloom. It was dark
                        when he threw down the book, and the fire
                        had burnt white in the grate. ‘By Jove!’ he muttered, ‘it's effective....
                        It's very effective. Nothing of the Little Englander about it, either. She's
                        struck the patriotic note, and it's just what the Radicals, lately, always
                        seem to miss doing. A bit sentimental, of course—how women do wallow in
                        sentiment!—but she's certainly made out a case. And what's more, her
                        statistics aren't any more misleading, as far as one can judge, than
                        statistics usually are.... I shall certainly see Friedeberg about it
                        to-morrow.’
                    Two days later Wentworth Johnson sat waiting for her to come. He felt
                        curiously eager to see her again, wondering what she would say, now that he
                        had good news to tell her; if she would look him in the eyes again with her
                        perverse smile, leaving behind her, when she went, the faint, indefinable
                        odour of iris. Every time the office-boy came up with a card he started,
                        wondering if she was actually below. But the morning dragged away, and ‘John
                        Bathurst’ did not appear. He felt irritable and exasperated, and he told
                        himself several times that it was the east wind—the east wind always got
                            on his liver. And it was doubtless to
                        avoid the inclemency of the streets that Wentworth Johnson stayed, contrary
                        to his usual custom, at the office all the afternoon. She might have made a
                        mistake, and thought that he meant the afternoon: he had been there two days
                        ago when she had called at three o'clock. It would be preposterous, he
                        reminded himself, to disappoint a lady.
                    The long afternoon wore away. Six o'clock struck, and ‘John Bathurst’ had not
                        come. As he finally took up his hat and slipped his arms into his overcoat,
                        the editor of the Evening Planet told himself that there were
                        occasions on which it was preposterous to disappoint a man.
                    He left the office on foot, thinking he would walk part of the way home.
                        Piccadilly was blocked with traffic, and at the Circus he had to wait with a
                        dozen other people till the policeman ordered a halt in the stream of
                        carriages and omnibuses. One by one the vehicles passed by, and then there
                        flashed across his gaze a girl's clean-cut profile, clearly outlined against
                        the dark blue lining of a brougham. The girl was all in white, with a
                        sparkling jewel in her hair and a great bunch of La France roses tucked among her laces and furs. It was a
                        delightful vision, but it did not, somehow, remove our hero's
                        irritability.
                    The carriage moved on. He felt curiously annoyed—his annoyance was out of all
                        proportion to the simple, commonplace events of the last two days. A lady
                        had called about a review. Well, they constantly called about reviews, about
                        a hundred matters connected with a newspaper. And yet, as he stepped along
                        Piccadilly, his ill temper increased. ‘John Bathurst’ was in town, and
                        apparently in perfect health, yet she had not come to hear his literary
                        opinion on her book. Literary, political, or not, women were all the same:
                        creatures of caprice, with perverse smiles and eyes which were made for
                        deceit.
                    The editor had assumed his stiffest manner when the young author was
                        an-nounced the next day. He had even allowed her to remain waiting
                        downstairs in the grimy little anteroom for ten minutes, while he pretended
                        to revise the proofs of a political article, a piece of diplomacy on his
                        part which proved to be useless, for not only was ‘John Bathurst’ as
                        charming as ever when she was finally ushered into the editorial sanctum, but he found that the
                        corrections made during the time she had waited had all to be done over
                        again.
                    ‘I was sorry you—you did not find it convenient to come yesterday,’ he began,
                        eyeing her a little askance as he played with a paper-knife.
                    ‘Ah! I thought I would spare you, Mr. Johnson,’ she returned, with her
                        brilliant smile. ‘I didn't really think you would have had time to read the
                        book.’
                    ‘ I read it that very afternoon,’ he muttered reproachfully. His stiffness
                        vanished as he looked at her; the little face, with its appealing look,
                        rising above the dark furs round her throat. He felt himself wondering how
                        long she would stay, and if he should get on with her as well as on that
                        first day of their meeting, and if they would become friends. There must be
                        bewildering, intoxicating possibilities in a girl who could feel so
                        intensely, who could express herself so picturesquely as the author of the
                        pamphlet he held in his hand. A young woman who could write a book like that
                        was not likely to be conventional in the usual worldly way. He cursed
                        himself for a fool at having kept her waiting ten minutes downstairs, when he might have been talk-ing to
                        her, gazing into her strange eyes, bending with her over her book as it lay
                        on the desk, as they picked out, together, the passages he meant to have
                        quoted.
                    And to-day the interview was prolonged. The editor of the
                            Planet had the best of news to give her. It was the
                        autumn of 1903, when chaos reigned, even in Government circles, and it was a
                        wise newspaper which knew its own policy.... And Mr. Julius Friedeberg, once
                        a prop of the Unionist party, had, after reflection, resolved to follow the
                        Duke, and throw in the weight of his journal's influence on the side of Free
                        Food.
                    To-morrow a strong leader was to appear on the subject, and a review, with
                        numerous quotations, from John Bathurst's pamphlet.
                    
                    The whole affair made a mild autumn sensation. Most of the Liberal papers
                        elected to find extraordinary talent in this young Mr. Bathurst, who was a
                        recruit worth having in the Free Trade cause. Some of them insisted that the
                        young man would go far; and it was even suggested, at the Liberal Clubs, that a safe seat ought to
                        be found for him, and his election expenses paid. Nevertheless, no one had
                        yet, strangely enough, met the pamphleteer in the flesh—no one except the
                        editor of the Planet, who was determined, in spite of all
                        chaff, to keep him anonymous. On the other hand, the editor could find out
                        nothing about the personality of ‘John Bathurst,’ and though he saw her
                        constantly for the next few weeks, she remained as elusive, as mysterious as
                        on the first day of their meeting.
                    The pamphlet had made such a hit, boomed by the Planet, that John Bathurst
                        had printed it in penny form. It had been largely sold, and largely
                        distributed for nothing, and people went so far as to say that it had won a
                        bye-election, towards the end of the month, for the Liberals. They were
                        discussing this notable victory, in which an unknown Anglo-Indian, a Colonel
                        Bloodgood, had been the successful candidate, when Wentworth Johnson made an
                        attempt to penetrate her anonymity.
                    ‘But you are the only man in London who knows who I am!’ she said: ‘don't you
                        feel proud?’
                    
                    ‘Oh, I don't know who you are!’ he said, in an injured voice.
                    She turned away her eyes as she met his insistent masculine glance.
                    ‘Ah, no—I forgot,’ she said, playing with the little gold charms at her
                        waist. There was self-reproach in her voice—the self-reproach of the
                        coquette who is troubled with remorse.
                    ‘I only know you are—awfully sweet and charming—and enough to drive any man
                        crazy,’ he muttered, in a thick, troubled voice. He had played her game all
                        through, he told himself, for he had ‘given his paper dead away,’ and there
                        was no end to the chaff at the club. Was he to have no compensation?
                    In the pause which followed could be heard the thunder of the printing
                        machines, turning out the weekly edition of his paper, suggesting, with its
                        remorseless activity, its monotonous thud, the inexorableness, the
                        irrevocableness of the printed word.
                    The narrow, metallic eyes almost closed, and with a little shrug she
                        answered, ‘Don't spoil it all. I—I am only “John Bathurst,” a political
                        pamphleteer, you know, not a woman. I could not come again,’ she added reproachfully, ‘if you—if you're going to
                        talk like that. And how am I going to write that final letter—without your
                        help?’
                    ‘I won't talk like that again,’ he said humbly. He saw that he had made a
                        premature move. ‘Please come to-morrow,’ “John Bathurst,”’ he
                        pleaded, crushing her cool, capable hand for an instant in his.
                    And ‘John Bathurst’ came.
                
                
                    III
                    A FEW evenings later, Mr. Wentworth Johnson was driving through the
                        grey London streets in a chariot drawn by doves. Strictly speaking, his
                        conveyance was only a hansom cab of the old type, with rattling windows and
                        fusty cushions; but he was on his way to meet the author of the celebrated
                        pamphlet in her capacity of woman, to meet her in private life—perhaps (who
                        knew?) to take her in to dinner? For years he had not felt so strangely
                        elated, so nervous, so little sure of himself. He wondered if it was the
                        right thing for him to have asked Lady Winchcliffe to bring them together in society; for he was somewhat afraid of
                        that lady's malicious smile, and to the last she had remained obstinate as
                        to the identity of the now famous author. All that he had been able to find
                        out from his hostess was the fact that ‘John Bathurst’ had lived most of her
                        life in India, and had but lately returned.
                    She was not in the room when he came upstairs.
                    ‘“John Bathurst's” coming,’ whispered Lady Winchcliffe; ‘you shall take her
                        in, if you're very good. We're only a small party—eight. But she's always
                        incorrigibly late. I never knew a woman take longer to dress herself.’
                    He tried to join in the desultory talk round the fireplace, but his eyes
                        wandered to the door.
                    ‘Colonel and Mrs. Bloodgood,’ said the butler suddenly, in an abrupt voice;
                        and ‘John Bathurst,’ dressed in something white and soft and
                        innocent-looking, and followed by a middle-aged man with a crooked line of
                        sunburn across his forehead, stepped forward into the room.
                    ‘Colonel and Mrs. Bloodgood: Colonel-and Mrs. Bloodgood!’ And so she was married—married to the new member of
                        parliament.... Curiously enough, he had never thought of such a contingency.
                        His radiant vision was the legal property of a tall, middle-aged, military
                        man, who looked as if he meant to take care of her.
                    The rest of the evening was all blurred and confused. He could remember
                        summoning up a forced smile as he offered Mrs. Bloodgood his arm to go down
                        to dinner; but the average Briton is not an adept at masking his feelings,
                        and disappointment and jealousy made him appear gruff and morose.
                    Colonel Bloodgood's wife, on the contrary, was more than usually charming.
                        Her smiling, perverse eyes met those of the editor at every sentence; there
                        was no end to the pretty things she found to say. It was he, and he alone,
                        she said, who had got her husband in; if the Planet had not
                        taken up her little book, and made such a feature of its arguments, the
                        election would never, she declared, have gone the way that it had. And more
                        than once during the dinner those smiling eyes shot a look of intelligence
                        at her husband across the table.
                    By the time the savouries were at his
                        elbow, Wentworth Johnson had made up his mind that he would invent some
                        excuse, and leave the house without rejoining the ladies in the
                        drawing-room.
                    ‘What's it all about?’ cried Lady Winchcliffe an hour later, when only the
                        Bloodgoods were left with the cigarettes and the lemon squashes. ‘What have
                        you done to my poor Wentworth Johnson? He was positively green at
                        dinner.’
                    ‘It's some of Jean's devilry,’ said the Colonel admiringly, gazing at his
                        young wife through a cloud of tobacco smoke. ‘She's a regular little
                        demon.’
                    But ‘John Bathurst,’ leaning over the table to pick a cigarette out of the
                        box, protested, in her sweet, serious voice, in which there was a little
                        thrill:
                    ‘I did it all for the Party. What did the Planet say about
                        Free Trade, I ask you, before I began to go down to the office? A little
                        feminine persuasion was needed to induce the paper to make up its mind,’ she
                        murmured, getting up and lighting her cigarette at the end of her husband's
                        cigar. The two smiled at each other with an air of comradeship. ‘If he's
                        been silly, I really can't help it,’ she
                        concluded calmly, when the cigarette was thoroughly alight; ‘one doesn't go
                        about warning middle-aged editors of evening papers not to fall in love with
                        one.’
                    ‘Oh, the game's never fair when you play,’ said Lady Winchcliffe: ‘I think
                        it's a great shame.’
                    Later that night the editor of the Planet came down the steps
                        of his club. He was in no better temper, though he had won several games of
                        billiards and had drunk more than one whisky-and-soda. No chariot drawn by
                        doves conveyed him homewards. He had determined to walk; the long tramp
                        through the quiet, deserted streets might calm his irritated nerves. It was
                        one o'clock when he put his latchkey into the front door of a red-brick
                        house in Earl's Court. As he pressed the key the door flew open, pulled by
                        some one behind, and there appeared in the dark passage the stout figure of
                        a woman of thirty-five, in an untidy tea-gown. He followed her into the
                        narrow dining-room, after he had banged and locked the door.
                    ‘What on earth are you waiting up for? he
                        said crossly. ‘I told you never to do so. There's nothing a man dislikes so
                        much as his wife waiting up for him.’
                    She picked up a little frock at which she had been sewing.
                    ‘Don't speak so loud, dear,’ said the woman in a tired voice: ‘baby's been so
                        fretful. I'm afraid she's not well. It may be another tooth.’
                    ‘Oh, baby's unwell, is she?’ he said, in a changed voice. ‘Let me see her.’
                        And together they went upstairs, and bent, with a lighted candle, over a
                        child's cot.
                
            
            
                
                THE FORTUNE OF FLORA
                
                    I
                    WHAT was the fortune of Flora? Nobody seemed to know, and what was
                        more curious, nobody seemed to like to ask; yet it was impossible for a
                        young couple to be more light-hearted on the eve of the adventure of
                        matrimony. Laurie, it is true, was at the golden age of twenty-three, and
                        had never allowed himself to be annoyed by a care or an unpaid debt in his
                        jocund young life; while to mention that the bride-elect was an American of
                        five-and-twenty, though she looked (and called herself) nineteen, is to say
                        that her outlook on the world and its problems was as cheerful as is
                        consistent with living in the twentieth century. The problem she had chiefly
                        envisaged for the last five or six years was that of allying herself,
                        matrimonially, with an Englishman of good family, and this ambition had
                            been finally encompassed in the person
                        of the Hon. Laurence Eversley, second son of Lord Worthing, met, only a few
                        weeks before, on the steamer coming across. For Laurie's career at Oxford
                        had stopped short of its final and most important stage, and it had been for
                        painting his Dean's door what he described as a ‘quite wonderful’ shade of
                        sealing-wax red, that he had been requested by the authorities to absent
                        himself permanently from the banks of the Isis. But if Lady Worthing had
                        been much incensed with Laurie over this untoward affair, Lord Worthing had
                        only laughed, quoted the case of Shelley, and taken the classic course of
                        sending his light-hearted son on a tour, to America. ‘Perhaps they will
                        teach him to “hustle” over there,’ he remarked, ‘or else he will pick up a
                        girl with a pile of money.’ Like most English people, Lord Worthing
                        invariably used American locutions when speaking of our kinsmen over the
                        Atlantic.
                    ‘It would be the usual vulgar way out of our difficulties,’ her ladyship had
                        said. She had never been particularly fond of her second son, all her
                        sympathies being with the eldest, Littlehampton, who was in the army. ‘What, indeed, do you suppose we shall ever
                        do with the boy? As Liberals, we have no hope of anything from the
                        Government. I do not think he knows how to work. Yes, I suppose
                        Laurie had better marry an American heiress. After all, it has become quite
                        a respectable profession for our sons. Look at the Warminsters. Why, the
                        mortgage is actually off the place at last.’
                    So when Laurie had skipped into the drawing-room again some six months later,
                        and announced his engagement to ‘the most exquisite creature in the world,
                        of fabulous wealth and the most deliciously unconventional manners,’ his
                        parents accepted the situation—and the prospective daughter-in-law, Miss
                        Flora Dodge—with equanimity.
                    The wedding was hurried forward. Mr. Dodge, it appeared, could make but a
                        brief stay on what he insisted on calling ‘this side,’ so the ceremony was
                        to take place almost immediately. Lord Worthing, who had long ago had to get
                        rid of his place in Sussex and the agricultural land appertaining thereto,
                        occupied a gaunt and somewhat neglected house in the Cromwell Road, a region
                        which Mr. Cyrus P. Dodge and his daughter
                        evidently regarded as in the vortex of fashion. And in this passably forlorn
                        mansion, which Laurie had somewhat profusely decorated with flowers for the
                        occasion, the betrothal dinner was, at this moment, taking place.
                    There they sat, the two young people, side by side, radiant with their new
                        honours and delighted to be the centre of attraction, the cynosure of all
                        eyes. For Laurie was by no means the self-conscious young Englishman who
                        cannot bear a fuss, and who looks upon the preliminary ceremonies of his
                        wedding day with boredom and horror; on the contrary, he delighted in the
                        prospect and took a personal interest in all the details of the coming
                        rites.
                    ‘You can't be too careful about a wedding,’ declared the bridegroom; ‘the
                        slightest mistake will ruin it. One should have a sense of decency, and
                        above all, a sense of humour. Do you remember when Warminster married that
                        peevish Sallie Vanderboken? As they were coming up the aisle, the choir
                        actually sang “Fight the good fight with all your might!” I nearly died of
                        suppressed giggling, and I was best man.’
                    
                    He went into the question of the music minutely; he would not have an ugly
                        parson. No bridesmaid was to be over sixteen, and they were to have long
                        hair, which was to be worn floating round their young faces.
                    ‘It must be quite beautiful and quite gay,’ declared Laurie. ‘We will have a
                        sort of bower of apple-blossoms at the chancel. Your white gown should be
                        semi-opaque and mounted on palest pink. You will look like a blossom or a
                        shell. You will be quite delicious! We shall both look charming,’ he added,
                        after a little pause. ‘Quite young and radiant, the ideal bride and
                        bridegroom.’
                    ‘Why, Laurie, you're just too queer for anything!’ declared Miss Dodge.
                        ‘Where do you get your ideas? I guess the girls in Milwaukee would stare if
                        they could hear you...’
                    But indeed they were a remarkable young pair. Laurie was slim and pale, his
                        features and hands a trifle effeminate-looking, but there was something
                        rat-like in his tenacity and strength, both of which he was in the habit of
                        carefully hiding under an elaborate air of dilettanteism. Once, coming out
                        of a theatre, a cad had purposely hustled him, counting on his pensive expression and his pallor
                        that he would not retaliate. But Laurie had not neglected the noble art at
                        Oxford, and the fellow lay sprawling in the mud when our young gentleman had
                        stalked imperturbably away.... The girl was of a more solid build, and had
                        all the capability of her nation and sex. Flora was the new type of American
                        girl, tall, active, and lithe. Canadian on her mother's side, she had eyes
                        of Northern blue, an abundance of fair, silky hair, and a complexion of pink
                        and white. She was dressed to-night in palest diaphanous blue, showing the
                        whole of her beautiful shoulders; a blue snood was twisted in her hair, and
                        she wore a priceless pearl necklace fastened round her white throat. It was
                        impossible to look more elegant, more flower-like, or to exhale a more
                        subtle air of wealth. The little blue frock had cost fifty guineas, she had
                        given at least a sovereign for the bunch of real roses she wore tucked in
                        her belt; her hair was dressed by an artist. The outside was indeed
                        perfection. This young girl looked like a Greuze, but she had gone through
                        Vassar with distinction. Only by her accent, together with her somewhat
                        over-emphasised manner, her curiously
                        Transatlantic air of deference to all things British, and especially to all
                        aristocratically British things, did the bride-elect betray the fact that
                        the fortunate place of her birth was Milwaukee. Like most Americans, she
                        rarely spoke of money, and she had been characteristically shocked to hear
                        one or two of Laurie's young friends—men in the Foot Guards or fashionable
                        actors—announce to all and sundry that they were ‘broke!’ Every nation has
                        its standard of propriety. To the Transatlantic mind, the British absence of
                        reticence about money embarrassments is little short of indecent.
                    Laurie had seen to it that the dinner of his betrothal should be as imposing
                        as possible. Some important people had been asked. Lady Worthing had on all
                        the family diamonds—jewels which quite brightened up her somewhat rusty
                        black lace frock—all the plate had been collected, and with a formidable
                        array of wax candles and a profusion of flowers, a stranger might have
                        thought that Lord Worthing and his family enjoyed all the freedom from
                        anxiety which a fat rent-roll confers.
                    There is no doubt that Mr. Cyrus P. Dodge was impressed. He sat, of
                            course, by Lady Worthing, and gazed
                        with paternal pride at the handsome young daughter who was so soon to
                        inhabit the ancestral halls of England.
                    The talk turned on the sort of house which the young people might take.
                        Nothing had been settled as yet, and it had been decided that Laurie and
                        Flora should pay a visit in the Cromwell Road after their marriage in order
                        to ‘look round’ and find what they wanted. There was nothing ambiguous, to
                        be sure, in what they wanted, the comedy of the situation lay in the fact
                        that each of these young people hoped that the other one would provide the
                        little house in Queen Anne's Gate which they both so ardently desired. The
                        paternal mansion in the Cromwell Road had been painted and decorated some
                        fifteen years ago, when London was still in the throes of the ‘æsthetic’
                        movement; but time, fog, and smoke had not made the yellow-green
                        pomegranates on the walls any more delectable, nor added to the meagre
                        attractions of the sage-coloured serge curtains, on which Lady Worthing, in
                        her bygone enthusiasm, had embroidered a kind of hybrid apple in
                        worsted.
                    
                    Flora, gazing round, inquired of her future slave whether ‘this was the
                        latest style in London? She guessed she would like to have the last
                        thing.’
                    Laurie laughed.
                    ‘Heavens! No,’ he cried. ‘We must be gay and sane—gay and sane like they were
                        in the eighteenth century. I will not hang autotypes of Rossetti on my
                        walls; a few Bartolozzis if you like, and some of the wonderful women of
                        Rominey and Reynolds. We shall have little striped papers, of course, and
                            very shiny, crackling chintzes.’
                    And Flora, who was staying at the Carlton, heaved a private sigh of relief.
                        You never knew, with these English aristocrats, just what was
                        the latest style. On the whole, the young lady preferred the appearance of
                        the famous dining-room in Pall Mall. She would just love to
                        have an all-white dining-room.
                    At the other end of the table, the voices in the little comedy had taken a
                        more anxious tone. ‘Bless the man,’ said Laurie's anxious mother to herself,
                        ‘is he never going to say what he will do for the young people?
                        Who, I wonder, does he think is going to pay the butcher, the baker, and the candlestick-maker? And Laurie
                        always wants such a lot of candlesticks!’
                    ‘Our dear children,’ suggested Lady Worthing to Mr. Dodge, ‘must start
                        delightfully, with everything pretty and in good taste.’
                    ‘That's so,’ assented Mr. Dodge, with a paternal smile. ‘Though her mother
                        and I,’ he continued, gazing with pride at his lovely daughter, ‘why, we
                        just started on ten dollars a week in Milwaukee. We boarded right in the
                        city. And I don't know as it isn't a good plan for young folks, anyway.
                        Makes them kind of spry.’ And to Lady Worthing's alarm, she could get
                        nothing definite from him about what he meant to do for his daughter—and her
                        son.
                    There was one guest at the dinner on whom none of this little comedy was
                        lost, and that was Aunt Charlotte, Lady Worthing's eldest sister. Miss
                        Mitchamore, who sat on Laurie's other hand, was an amused spectator of the
                        whole intrigue. A spinster of original turn, with a handsome independence of
                        her own (the two sisters had been co-heiresses, but Lady Worthing's fortune
                        had long ago been swallowed up in her husband's embarrassments), Charlotte 
                            Mitcha-
                            Mitchamore
                         more had been a traveller all
                        her life. In the States she had often met the type of American who was
                        facing her. She knew that though he would let his daughter dress at Worth's,
                        would cover her in jewels and take suites of rooms at Ritz's in Paris and at
                        the Carlton in London, he would, in all probability, make no sort of legal
                        settlement on his child on her marriage. Even if he were really wealthy—and
                        there was no evidence that he was—he would be reluctant to make any definite
                        promises as to income. Sometimes these curious Transatlantic parents were
                        extraordinarily, fantastically generous. Sometimes they closed their pockets
                        to prospective sons-in-law, and coolly advised them to earn their own
                        living. In short, you could not count on them. And Charlotte Mitchamore, who
                        was fond of Laurie, and had, indeed, been the chief means of his taking a
                        six months' tour in the United States, wondered what would be the outcome of
                        this match into which both sides seemed to be walking blindfold. She had
                        hinted these things to her sister, but the hints had not been well received.
                        Lady Worthing could not be brought to see the affair as it really was. For what with Littlehampton's debts, and
                        the girls fast coming out, it was most desirable, she urged, that Laurie,
                        poor boy, should be settled somehow.
                    And none of these doubts, it must be owned, assailed the bridegroom-elect. In
                        all his jocund days, everything had always turned out all right. Why should
                        not his marriage be as triumphant, as delightful as all his other
                        experiences? At school, at college, he had always been a favourite. Laurie,
                        with all his airy carelessness, had almost forgotten that he had been ‘sent
                        down’; or at the worst he only remembered it as an amusing episode in his
                        career, in which a Don with a very red face and very white hair, who somehow
                        suggested a Jack-in-the-Box, had got extraordinarily vexed and tried to say
                        unpleasant things.... And, after all, it had turned out charmingly, for he
                        had spent that May and June in London, and then he had gone to the
                        States....
                    ‘The great thing is not to be afraid of marrying!’ announced Laurie, as he
                        surveyed the formidable array of presents spread out the day before his
                        nuptials. ‘Why, indeed, should one? Directly you marry, the whole of society at once takes a
                        perfervid interest in you. They begin by loading you with presents, and they
                        will probably end by supporting you, your wife and your family—especially if
                        you have a large one. Whereas in the most exemplary bachelor or spinster,
                        society takes no interest whatever. It is better to be charming than to be
                        good,’ added Laurie, pensively; ‘and certainly, on the whole, if it comes to
                        solid help, it is better to be married than to be single.’
                
                
                    II
                    THE first blow fell when they were still on their honeymoon in St.
                        Petersburg, a city which they had chosen because Lord Worthing's first
                        cousin was Ambassador there. A handsome cheque of Mr. Dodge's enabled them
                        to enjoy it. They had danced at a ball in the vast, imposing saloons of the
                        Winter Palace; they had been made the spoiled children of the British
                        Embassy, where the bride's elegance and her husband's attractive manners had
                        won them friends among the most amusing
                        people in the Russian capital. Socially, the young Eversleys were a decided
                        success. Flora, it must be owned, talked the French which is considered
                        correct in Milwaukee; but Laurie, on the other hand, who had an uncanny gift
                        for strange tongues, could boast a flow of quite Parisian idioms. They had
                        sleighed and shopped in the Nevski Prospekt; Flora had laid in a formidable
                        stock of turquoises in the Bazar, and Laurie had spent his mornings in the
                        Hermitage, and his evenings in giving little dinner and supper parties in
                        the restaurants on the islands; in short, they had had, as they both avowed,
                        a beautiful time. Nothing amused Laurie more than to watch the shaggy,
                        red-bloused, ever-smiling moujik; custom could not stale Flora's interest in
                        the drovsky-driver's Noah's Ark costume, in his padded shoulders and waist,
                        his long hair, and his voluminous pleated pelisse. They had taken a trip to
                        Moscow, had been bumped and banged over the cobble-paved hills of the Holy
                        City, had got their first glimpse of the Immemorial East in the sinister,
                        harem-like rooms of the old Palace in the Kremlin, had 
                            wan-
                            wandered
                         dered, astonished, through those
                        magnificent modern arcades which put anything of tile same kind in Europe to
                        the blush.
                    But it was when they were once more back in their pretty rooms in the Hôtel
                        de France in St. Petersburg that Flora found, among a little crowd of
                        bouquets from Russian admirers, a letter from Mr. Cyrus P. Dodge with the
                        post-mark Milwaukee.
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    MY DEAR LITTLE GIRL (it ran)—I guess you will be sorry to
                                        hear that I have had real bad luck. The New Trust has done
                                        for the old man—for the present. I shall have to pay up all
                                        round, and I guess you'll have to make that cheque I gave
                                        you last just as long as you can. Luckily, you've got some
                                        of your father's grit; I can trust my poor Flora not to sit
                                        down and cry over spilt milk. I feel as mad as a hornet; I
                                        just mean to start a new combine against the Trust. You can
                                        bet the old man will hustle, some. There's hardly a cent
                                        now, but we may come up smiling yet. I'm just off to
                                        Chicago, on urgent business. My respects to Lord and Lady
                                        Worthing. I think you're a real lucky girl. They're nice
                                        folks, and they'll look after you.
                                    —Your devoted father, CYRUS P.
                                        DODGE.
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    Young Mrs. Eversley folded this characteristic letter carefully, put it away,
                        and then communicated the contents to her
                        youthful partner in the adventure of matrimony. Two years older than her
                        husband, she felt an almost maternal, or at least an elder-sisterly feeling
                        towards the joyous and irresponsible youth whom she had undertaken to love,
                        honour, and obey. And Laurie, as she afterwards told Miss Mitchamore, had
                        behaved like a ‘perfect angel.’ He was knocking the top off an egg at
                        breakfast, and his wife was eyeing this characteristically British
                        performance with awe and admiration, when she summoned up courage to tell
                        him that, from now onwards, she would have to look to him and to his family
                        for her maintenance. Fortunately, as she told herself, a peer of the realm,
                        in England, must be rich enough to support his children, a theory which
                        showed our young lady's meagre acquaintance with European family
                        arrangements.
                    There was just enough of the cheque left to take them back to London, and one
                        windy and rainy night in February found a four-wheeled cab loaded with
                        trunks and containing the happy pair drawing up at the Worthing mansion in
                        the Cromwell Road.
                    But this, again, proved no abiding-place for this much-tried young couple.
                        Two of the younger children had developed
                        scarlatina; the house bristled with starched hospital nurses, the doctor's
                        brougham stood at the door, and Laurie and his bride had to take refuge in a
                        neighbouring hotel. Next morning Lady Worthing appeared. She had only the
                        worst of news to bring. Lord Littlehampton, it appeared, in the lightness of
                        his heart, had entangled himself in some promise to a chorus-girl, and this
                        young person, an Amazon of gigantic proportions and vivid colouring,
                        proposed to resign her claim to his coronet only on payment of a substantial
                        sum. At all costs, Lady Worthing announced her intention of raising the
                        money.... As for herself and the children, they might go to some cheap spot
                        in Normandy or the Ardennes; and for Laurie, she was convinced that Mr.
                        Cyrus P. Dodge would provide.
                    To say that our poor hero was astounded at the untoward turn which things had
                        taken is to convey but a faint impression of his feelings. Here he was, the
                        gayest, the most insouciant of created beings, at twenty-three, a married
                        man, with a penniless, opulent-looking bride, and at the odious necessity of
                        finding the wherewithal to live. Could
                        Fate have played him a crueller trick? There sat his Flora, a lovely,
                        sumptuous vision in a negligée of Mechlin
                        lace, eating candy and reading a French novel, while downstairs, in the
                        dingy bureau, the manager was adding up a bill which Laurie saw no immediate
                        prospect of paying.
                    But he was not easily depressed, nor did he ever forget his charming manners.
                        Taking up his hat and cane, lie kissed his wife's fingers, and remarked
                        carelessly—
                    ‘I think I shall go and see Aunt Charlotte. She always has
                        ideas. She is a quite wonderful woman!’ He slipped
                        out, and, for the first time in his life—for Laurie had heretofore spent
                        most of his time in hansoms-=-walked from South Kensington to the little
                        house at the back of Knightsbridge, where Miss Mitchamore occasionally
                        planted her weary feet.
                    He found his aunt smoking cigarettes in her morning-room, and reading a new
                        work on Uganda, a country which she proposed to visit as soon as the
                        necessary arrangements could be made. Already she had travelled a good deal
                        in West Africa, and was understood to be on the friendliest terms with one
                        or two dusky kings. Charlotte 
                            Mitcha-
                            Mitchamore
                         more had something of the
                        outward appearance of an Oxford High Church curate, and as, on her travels,
                        she usually wore a manly coat and skimpy skirt of drab tweed, it is possible
                        that those black potentates had not yet realised that she belonged to the
                        inferior sex.
                    Aunt Charlotte was sympathetic. She was fond—though not foolishly fond—of
                        Laurie, and she detested Littlehampton. Also, she thought her sister a
                        fool.
                    ‘What is to be done?’ asked Laurie. ‘Do, like a dear, have one of your
                            ideas. You see,’ he added, ‘I'm only a half-educated boy!
                        I've got taste, of course, but taste is only a drawback, unless you've
                        capital to indulge it. That strange beast, the British Public, is always
                        distrustful of any one who doesn't like what it likes.’
                    ‘True,’ said Aunt Charlotte. ‘The only thing for you to do,’ she added, after
                        a pause, in which she rather deliberately lit another cigarette, ‘is to get
                        some work.’
                    ‘Some work!’ ejaculated Laurie, with naive surprise; ‘how curious that
                        sounds.... Yet I have heard that work is quite delightful—a sort of
                        tonic—when once you get used to it! Shall I have to go in the Twopenny Tube every day, at a quarter to nine,
                        and lunch at an A.B.C. shop?’
                    ‘Rubbish,’ said Aunt Charlotte, ‘you're not going to be made a martyr of. I
                        have foreseen something of this kind,’ she went on. ‘I didn't like your
                        marrying without any settlement—so I've just kept my weather eye open. Take
                        that arm-chair, help yourself to a cigarette, and listen.’
                    The conference lasted an hour. Laurie stayed to lunch, and at three he was
                        whisked away by his aunt in a motorcar.
                    Meanwhile, at home in the South Kensington hotel, the Honourable Mrs.
                        Eversley was holding a conference with a person in whom she had cultivated
                        confidence, and that was herself. Seeing the whole situation at a glance,
                        she had no illusions left about peers of the realm and their capability of
                        supporting the various members of their family.... The girl had thrown away
                        her French novel on Laurie's departure, and, pushing back the fair hair from
                        her capable-looking forehead with a gesture which recalled her father, she
                        marched up and down the shabbily-carpeted room, thinking hard....
                        Half-an-hour later she dressed herself
                        quietly in black, drove to the American Consul-General, and got the
                        information which she desired.
                    When the young husband and wife met that night they both looked as pleased as
                        if they had come into a fortune, though each was somewhat reticent.
                    ‘My child,’ said Laurie, helping his wife to hock, ‘figure to yourself that
                        our cares are temporarily at an end. I have got something to do—a kind of
                        business which I think I can manage. How charming you look; you must always
                        wear heliotrope and pink when we dine alone.’
                    They went into lodgings next day—lodgings where Laurie insisted on pulling
                        down all the oleographs and hanging the walls with a striped, flowery
                        cretonne. He also brought his Oxford Chippendale furniture, his prints and
                        books, and a number of white fur rugs. With a pink azalea bush in full bloom
                        in one corner, the place looked pretty enough. And here they began married
                        life.
                    The little comedy which ensued was sufficiently diverting. Laurie, who had
                        remained quite vague on the subject of his ‘work,’ used to leave the house
                        about half-past nine every morning. Directly he had turned the corner of the street, Flora put on her
                        hat and ran to catch the omnibus. When they met at dinner, she was
                        becomingly arrayed in one of her beautiful trousseau gowns, and had assumed
                        an air of elaborate repose....
                    Before Miss Charlotte Mitchamore left for Uganda, she had had many private
                        interviews with her niece by marriage, of whom, as she announced to all and
                        sundry, she now thoroughly approved.
                
                
                    III
                    MEANWHILE, Laurie's devotion was complete—for he was a kind of being
                        who, when he once takes up an idea, waxes more and more enthusiastic, even
                        if that idea is marriage. Yet one wet day, as she was running along Dover
                        Street under an umbrella, she caught, to her amazement, a glimpse of her
                        husband in the vestibule of Froufrou's, the famous milliner's. A handsome
                        woman, in summer finery, was eagerly talking to him, and she saw him come
                        down with her to the door of the little brougham which was waiting. Yes, there he stood, laughing
                        and chatting, at the carriage window, as if he were loth to tear himself
                        away, while the fine rain beat down on his handsome head. What could it
                        mean? Laurie professed to be hard at work all day—and certainly the boy
                        always looked tired enough, when they both sat down, dressed, to their
                        lodging-house dinner. Flora certainly never imagined that he had leisure to
                        attend dames of high degree to their dressmakers in Dover Street.... For the
                        first time since her marriage she felt uncertain of Laurie.
                    Young Mrs. Eversley was too fine, as well as too proud, to
                        discuss this curious affair with her husband. She determined to be perfectly
                        amiable as usual, to bide her time, and to see what would happen next.
                        Laurie was just as gracefully affectionate as of old; his charming manners
                        had never altered with their adverse fortunes, and what especially made her
                        profoundly grateful to him was the fact that he never, by word, look, or
                        tone, reproached her with the failure of Cyrus P. Dodge to provide her with
                        a jointure. Flora had heard so much of the avariciousness of Englishmen in respect of dollars, that she was
                        agreeably surprised, and wrote the most flattering accounts of the youthful
                        Laurie home to Milwaukee. Mr. Cyrus P. Dodge was too much occupied in
                        fighting his particular Trust to remember to send any more cheques to the
                        lodgings occupied by his daughter and son-in-law.
                    Six months had gone by, and it was now high summer. With the beginning of
                        July London was feverish with dissipation. The town seemed speckled with
                        striped awnings and blatant with red baize; all night there was a ceaseless
                        whirl of cabs, carriages, and motor broughams, and through the open windows
                        of drawing-rooms came the monotonous sound of string bands playing the valse
                        of the hour. All this, however, affected the young Eversleys very little.
                        They accepted no invitations, for they had determined not to go out while
                        their prospects remained so uncertain. It was much remarked that Flora even
                        refused to be presented at Court, although Lady Worthing (now sojourning
                        with her numerous family at Paramé) had several times suggested a suitable
                        personage to introduce her daughter-in-law.
                    
                    It was a sultry evening, and Laurie had not yet returned from his work. Flora
                        herself was tired out, but the bedroom looked untidy—Laurie had a way of
                        throwing his clothes about which was most exasperating—so she set about
                        collecting the scattered garments, folding them up and putting them away in
                        the chest of drawers. The little note which falls out of the marital pocket
                        on such occasions did not fail now. It was small; it had an earl's coronet
                        upon it, and it contained a few agitated phrases, many of the words being
                        heavily underlined.... I do not claim for my heroine that she was more than
                        human. Flora picked it up and read it.
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    DEAR LAURIE (it ran)-How could you disappoint
                                        me? I counted on you absolutely; the
                                        appointment was for four o'clock. It is cruel of you, and
                                        besides, this is not the first time it has happened....
                                        Unless you can give me a satisfactory explanation (for I am
                                        not accustomed to be treated like this), I
                                        shall go to Dover Street no more.
                                    
                                        GERTRUDE GORLESTON.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    The note slipped from her fingers, and she stood absolutely bewildered, at a
                        loss what to think. Gertrude Gorleston—the
                        famous Lady Gorleston, a beauty whose reputation was world-wide, and whose
                        face was almost as familiar in Milwaukee as in London.... Was
                            this her rival? How could she hope to compete with such a
                        personage? In a flash, she remembered that it was indeed the countess whom
                        she had seen that day in Dover Street, with Laurie's sleek head half in,
                        half out of her carriage door.... Was this how he spent his superfluous
                        time? And then the difficulties of her situation began to dawn upon her. She
                        was quite alone in London; owing to their peculiar circumstances, she had
                        made no friends; there was no one whose advice she could ask.... If
                        Charlotte Mitchamore had been in England, she would indeed have gone to her
                        for advice, but Miss Mitchamore by now was in Uganda.
                    Meanwhile, the latchkey was heard in the door, and the sound of Laurie's
                        footstep was audible coming up the stair.... She must decide, and
                        quickly.... If there was anything of which this astute young person
                        disapproved it was having a ‘scene’ with a man, or appearing to upbraid him.
                        For herself, she was determined always to
                        assume the beau rôle. To appear in the
                        light of a nagging, jealous wife was odious to her. She would have left him
                        for good if it were necessary, but reproaches, she held, were feminine and
                        absolutely futile. She thrust the note back into the pocket of the morning
                        jacket from which it had fallen, slipped into her prettiest lace tea-gown,
                        and awaited her erring spouse.
                    ‘Why, you look real scared, Laurie!’ she cried; ‘I guess you're just too
                        tired for anything. Why, you're as white as a sheet.’
                    ‘I've had a shock, dear,’ he said, slipping into the nearest chair, his lips
                        twitching as he spoke. ‘Aunt Charlotte—there—there is very bad news.’
                    ‘You don't mean to say she's dead?’
                    ‘She died of fever a week after she landed in Africa,’ said Laurie
                        sorrowfully.
                    Flora burst into tears. ‘She was the best and kindest woman I ever knew,’ she
                        cried, ‘my only friend on this side. It's just too dreadful for
                        anything. Oh my, oh my!’ And these two young people, who were both sincerely
                        attached to Miss Mitchamore, were drawn more closely together in their
                        grief.
                    Yet Flora could not altogether forget Lady
                        Gorleston's letter, and as they sat by the open window, in the summer dusk,
                        after dinner, she said, as if with a sudden impulse:
                    ‘Laurie, what do you do all day?’ Her husband looked surprised, but he
                        answered simply and with perfect courtesy, ‘I “create” gowns and superintend
                        the trying on, at Froufrou's, in Dover Street. It was poor Aunt Charlotte's
                        quite wonderful inspiration.’
                    Laurie, to this day, never can understand why his wife threw her arms round
                        his neck and gave him what she was wont to call ‘an American hug.’ ‘Oh, you
                        dear! You're just too perfect for anything. My! Fancy your settling down to
                        that. And say,’ she added, as a new light seemed to illuminate her brain,
                        ‘doesn't—er—Lady Gorleston dress entirely at Froufrou's?’
                    ‘She does,’ replied Laurie, without any enthusiasm in his voice, ‘and a
                        confounded nuisance she is. Always fussing, always having alterations. She
                        has got it into her head now that I must be at every
                        fitting.... If not, there's a devil of a row.’
                    ‘I see,’ said Flora profoundly, with the memory of a certain note in her
                        mind. ‘“I counted on you absolutely; the
                        appointment was for four o'clock....”’ Well, thank goodness, she was not a
                        jealous woman. Meanwhile, she felt in the mood for confidences.
                    ‘Well, Laurie, I'm going to tell you something. You thought that we weren't
                        going to have any holiday this summer, because of—well, you know why. Now I
                        want to tell you that I've not been idle, either. I've just been keeping the
                        books and seeing customers at a photographer's in Baker Street, and here's
                        my half-year's salary, £75. I never shall forget poor Aunt Charlotte's
                        delight when I told her I'd got a situation. Why, she just hugged me. Wasn't
                        she a dear?’
                    ‘You are a wonderful woman!’ declared Laurie with conviction—‘a quite
                        wonderful woman!’
                    But there were more surprises in store for our young couple. When Miss
                        Mitchamore's will was opened, it was found that, with the exception of some
                        legacies for scientific research, she had left the whole of her comfortable
                        fortune to ‘her dear nephew Laurence and his wife Flora, because they are
                        plucky young people who know how to face
                        ill-luck, who are not afraid to work, and who don't go about whining.’
                    The house in Queen Anne's Gate is theirs now, with all its gay and sane
                        appurtenances. And Flora, who firmly believes in Cyrus P. Dodge and his
                        ability to circumvent the Trust, exhibits a pathetic belief—not shared by
                        Laurie, who has, however, hopes of succeeding to the title—that she will
                        still come into her own phantom fortune.
                
            
            
                
                MLLE. MANKOVICH
                
                    I
                    IT was a somewhat old-fashioned apartment, which had evidently not
                        been changed since the mid-Victorian epoch, for it had steel engravings of
                        Landseer's pictures on the crimson walls, prie-Dieu chairs in
                        Berlin-woolwork, and a bust of Clytie on a tall bookshelf. One sees many
                        such rooms in great country seats, which descend in strict entail from
                        father to son. Through the window was revealed a smudged vista of park lands
                        swathed in white wadding, out of which a giant oak loomed here and there. A
                        bright fire gave the only light.
                    A young man, who had the air of being thoroughly at home, had one foot on the
                        fender, one elbow on the mantelpiece, and a cigarette between his lips, at
                        which he puffed meditatively while he listened to the story of the young
                        woman at his side. Bronzed, thick-set,
                        clean-shaven, and more than a trifle stolid of aspect, he was precisely the
                        kind of person to whom his intimate friends will always pour out their
                        difficulties. Moreover, what you told to Frank Chester did not become the
                        property of the town. He had received so many unrevealed confidences in his
                        time that he was sometimes called The Silent Tomb.
                    The woman at his elbow, though she had the clear eyes and healthy skin of one
                        who spends her summer days on yachts and her winter days in the
                        hunting-field, had no pretensions to beauty. She wore her straight brown
                        hair short, and affected austere collars. Just now she stood fidgeting with
                        the Dresden shepherds and Japanese ivories on the mantel-shelf as she made
                        her little confession.
                    ‘If I could only get him away from her for a time!’ she muttered: ‘if I were
                        sure that they wouldn't meet for a year. Peter would forget her—most men
                        wouldn't remember Venus Anadyomene herself after a few months'
                        separation.’
                    Why Lord St. Ambrose was called Peter no one ever quite knew, except that it
                        began at Eton, where there was a consensus of opinion that his real name of
                        Percival was manifestly unsuited to so
                        popular and easy-going an individual. At any rate, it was as Peter that he
                        was always spoken of by the many people who were attached to him, among
                        whom, I may as well explain at once, was his lawful wife, Mary.
                    ‘Eve Mankovich ain't precisely a Venus Anadyomene,’ remarked Frank
                        meditatively.
                    ‘Oh, you know what I mean. Don't pretend to be stupid, Frank. She's much more
                        dangerous than a great beauty. And then I always mistrust those half-foreign
                        women. They generally have the vices of both countries, and none of the
                        virtues! And they do dress so exquisitely,’ added Lady St. Ambrose, gazing
                        down rather ruefully at her own British gown of blue serge, short in the
                        skirt and somewhat antiquated in regard to cut.
                    Frank's eyes followed those of his hostess.
                    ‘You never did do yourself justice,’ said he, ‘and a woman can make anything
                        of herself nowadays. Touching those boots, now—’ he added, with one of his
                        rare smiles.
                    Lady St. Ambrose laughed, and the two looked at each other as people look who
                        have a genuine friendship for each other.
                    ‘Oh, it's too much bother,’ she answered.
                        ‘Peter must take me as the Lord made me, or not at all. Give me a cigarette,
                        Frank, and some better advice than that.’
                    ‘Does he see her often?’ inquired Chester, as he struck a match for the
                        lady's cigarette.
                    ‘Not very often, of course, since last season, when Peter, to my intense
                        surprise, suddenly took to going to evening parties. You know how much she
                        went out, and what a fuss people made about her. These half-foreign people
                        have so much more chance than English girls. Her grandmother was all right,
                        I believe—an Irishwoman of good family—but her father was a Bulgarian or a
                        Roumanian, or something queer in the East of Europe. For myself, I thought
                        the thing absurdly overdone.’
                    ‘So did many people,’ muttered Frank. ‘But is anything more amazing than
                        these sudden affections which London takes to young persons from Heaven
                        knows where?’
                    Lady St. Ambrose sniffed. ‘If they were well-bred English girls London
                        wouldn't look at them,’ she said. ‘Do you think my Janie will ever be made a
                        fuss of when she comes out? I shall be lucky if I marry her to one of those
                        dull boys of Lord Gravesend's.’
                    
                    ‘Janie being of the mature age of seven, we will return, for the present, to
                        Peter,’ said Chester. ‘How often has he seen her since July?’
                    ‘I don't know exactly, but all this autumn he's developed a curious fondness
                        for running up to town and doing a theatre. Some one saw him in a box with
                        her at the St. James's. Of course, she had a chaperon with her.’
                    Frank Chester pondered a while, and then, seemingly intent on kicking back
                        into its place a burning log which threatened to fall on to the domestic
                        hearth, he said, quietly:
                    ‘If I were in your place, Mary, I should ask her down here.’
                    ‘Down here!’ cried his hostess, aghast. ‘Have her here at Mount St. Ambrose,
                        where they will see each other every day, and all day long?’
                    ‘Just so,’ said Frank, ‘that's the cure for these cases—slight cases of
                        infatuation, not dangerous to life, but very tiresome while they last. Let
                        Peter see Mlle. Mankovich every day. That's all the advice I've got to
                        give,’ he added a little curtly, seeing an obstinate refusal in Lady St.
                        Ambrose's face. ‘You can take it or leave it. I'm sure it's the only
                        way.’
                    
                    Tea and lamps interrupted any further discussion, and the entrance of Janie,
                        which partook of the nature of a whirlwind, stopped Mary's thoughts from
                        dwelling on her conjugal misfortunes for a while. Muffins were a forbidden
                        article of food to the Honourable Jane, yet muffins, it seemed, that young
                        lady was determined to have. Her father made his appearance in the midst of
                        the hubbub raised, and immediately handed the dish to his child. Lord St.
                        Ambrose was a long, loose-limbed man, with handsome blue eyes and an
                        altogether inadequate chin, who had never been known to deny himself—or any
                        one else—anything. He was a Whig by family tradition, and a Radical because
                        he honestly wanted every one to have a fair chance. He looked the pink of
                        good-nature, and wore an ancient shooting-coat and very dirty boots.
                    His wife, who watched the little scene with a detached air, said suddenly:
                        ‘Peter, I'm thinking of asking that charming Mlle. Mankovich down for
                        Christmas, and I hope she'll stay on for our ball. They're so
                        stick-in-the-mud about here. We really want some one fresh and smart and
                        amusing, don't we?’
                    
                    Lord St. Ambrose flushed with pleasure. ‘Oh yes, certainly, if you wish it,’
                        he said, trying to appear indifferent. To further this illusion he reached
                        for the cream-jug, into which he peeped, and, finding it empty, essayed a
                        pantomime of disgust and disappointment, which moved his daughter to the
                        most extravagant hilarity.
                    ‘I've drunk it all, father! An' I shall be so dreffully ill, an' I'm
                        perfeckly sure you'll have to send for Dr. Potts!’
                    ‘You are a disgrace to an ancient and honoured name,’ said Frank, sternly,
                        ‘and no more shall you be god-daughter of mine’; and amid the squeals and
                        protestations of Janie, who was now formally condemned to the nursery, these
                        three people were all intensely conscious that a new phase of the little
                        drama had, by Lady St. Ambrose's sudden decision, definitely begun.
                
                
                    II
                    MLLE. MANKOVICH, when she appeared in these typically English
                        surroundings, and with an essentially English house-party, aroused doubts in her hostess's mind as to the
                        wisdom of having taken Frank Chester's advice. Up to now Lady St. Ambrose
                        had met the girl only in the rush of the season, had caught glimpses of
                        her—her white shoulders surrounded by black coats—at evening crushes, where
                        black coats were rare; had watched her selling useless objects with amazing
                        success at modish bazaars; and had seen her, a marble-pale personage with
                        eyes of dark Irish blue, half-hidden by a curtain in some great lady's box
                        at Covent Garden. For the first time, in the intimacy of country-house life,
                        Lady St. Ambrose realised how at once alluring and sympathetic her guest
                        from the remote East of Europe could be, for Mary was a person who never
                        belittled another woman's attractions once she was convinced of their
                        potency. Mlle. Mankovich had a fascinating dash of ugliness; she was of an
                        amazing pallor, and the contour of her face was a shade too square and flat
                        for beauty; but the pose of her head, the shape of her shoulders, and her
                        lissom waist were all extraordinarily attractive.
                    It was not that Lady St. Ambrose disliked her: there was something at once
                        appealing and alluring in her eyes of dark, changing blue, and her manner was the perfection of dignity. When, in the
                        evening, her shoulders emerging from a gown of sable gauze or velvet—for Eve
                        Mankovich never wore anything but black—the girl made her appearance in the
                        drawing-room just before dinner, she generally succeeded in ‘wiping out,’ as
                        Frank Chester put it, every other woman in the room, including the merely
                        pretty and the merely dressy.
                    ‘It's personality, I suppose,’ explained Frank. ‘If you had your eyes shut,
                        you'd know whether that girl was in the room or not. It's a rum thing. Look
                        at Janie. She never leaves her.’
                    To every one's surprise, Janie had at once conceived a violent affection for
                        the attractive foreigner, and as she was apt to be exaggerated in all her
                        doings, clung to Mlle. Mankovich most of the day, and was not to be parted
                        from her. This was all the more strange, as Frank Chester pointed out,
                        because Mlle. Eve never supplied her with edibles of any kind. And yet the
                        child, with her high spirits, her love of bright colours, noise, and gaiety,
                        attached herself to this girl with her black gown, her sweet, sad face, and
                        her eminently detached manner. Such a
                        disinterested affection had not been known in the brief career of the
                        Honourable Janie. It was true that Mlle. Eve could tell Russian folk-lore
                        stories of the most poignant interest, and sang strange, Slav songs to the
                        accompaniment of a one-stringed guzla; but other people, Mary St. Ambrose
                        remembered, had essayed to entertain Janie with fairy tales and banjoes, and
                        had left that young person profoundly indifferent.
                    As for Peter, his wife was the first to see—for she had unusually keen
                        intuition in these matters—that the devotion, such as it was, was all on her
                        husband's side.
                    In no wise did this strange young woman show herself perturbed or even
                        gratified by her host's attentions. She even had a habit, as Lady St.
                        Ambrose quickly observed, of gazing through his head while he was talking
                        earnestly to her; and, though she had a way of sitting apart with him and
                        holding him in close converse, no one could say that she had the appearance
                        of discussing topics of a personal nature. Mlle. Mankovich was the least
                        self-conscious of beings.
                    As for Frank, as the week went on, his infatuation was manifest. Personally,
                            he hardly mentioned her, but the whole
                        atmosphere of Mount St. Ambrose seemed to be by this time permeated with the
                        presence of Mlle. Mankovich, so that the mere naming of names seemed somehow
                        unnecessary. And though he did not talk to the girl a quarter as much as
                        most of the men in the house, he seemed to follow her every movement, and he
                        pondered over her phrases like one to whom certain words suggest disquieting
                        visions and unattainable ideals. During that week Lady St. Ambrose and Frank
                        Chester never discussed the strange guest.
                    One afternoon, at tea-time, Frank and Mlle. Eve had not come in. It was not a
                        day for lingering outside, and the other guests congratulated themselves on
                        being indoors as they warmed themselves at the big log-fire and helped
                        themselves to hot cakes. Lord St. Ambrose was obviously fidgety.
                    ‘Not fit for a tramp to be out,’ he said, glancing at the clock. ‘Nice
                        climate we live in—eh, Lady Leavenworth?’
                    The lady addressed sniffed. ‘Your foreign young friend will catch her death
                        of cold, I should think,’ she remarked, with a certain air of triumph. Her
                        ladyship had a daughter still on her
                        hands, and Frank Chester was an eminently desirable bachelor.
                    Lord St. Ambrose frowned and changed the conversation. But every one had gone
                        upstairs to dress for dinner by the time the two culprits had got back.
                    ‘Dear Frank,’ whispered Lady St. Ambrose, ‘where on earth did you take Mlle.
                        Mankovich this atrocious day?’
                    ‘I can't tell you exactly, Mary,’ he said, after a moment's hesitation. ‘At
                        least, not now. You'll know by and by right enough. It was—something very
                        important. She had to meet some one.’
                    ‘To meet some one?’ she asked wonderingly. And for the first time, during
                        their whole lives, something intangible seemed to have stept between these
                        two.
                    For her friend and confidant had not answered. ‘You, too, Frank!’ murmured
                        Mary St. Ambrose to herself as she went dejectedly upstairs.
                
                
                    III
                    THE night of the ball at Mount St. Ambrose brought about the crisis
                        which every one somehow felt was in the air.
                    
                    Mary stood at the door, anxious for the success of her party, and receiving
                        all her guests with that reassuring grip of the hand which was so
                        characteristic of her. And Mlle. Eve Mankovich—though nothing would induce
                        her to dance—was indisputably the most attractive woman present. The girl
                        stood apart, her dark head outlined against a mantelpiece banked with pink
                        azaleas, with a little crowd of men surrounding her. She wore black, as
                        usual, much to Janie's distress, for the child had insisted on helping her
                        friend to dress for the ball.
                    ‘Are you in mournin', Mlle. Eve?’ demanded the child, as she leaned on the
                        dressing-table with both her elbows, devouring the fascinating one with her
                        eyes. ‘Why you always wear black?’
                    ‘In mourning, Janie?’ said Mlle. Mankovich, clasping a row of pearls round
                        her wonderful throat. ‘Yes—I am. I shall wear black till—well, when you are
                        a big girl, perhaps sooner, you may see me in white, in rose-colour. I shall
                        wear white when the Morning comes,’ she added softly, bending down to kiss
                        the adoring little face raised to hers. Before she had finished dressing, a
                        telegram had arrived for her, and it was
                        with a grave, detached air that she had gone down, in her glittering black
                        gown, to dinner.
                    Now she stood rather silent, watching the dancers with a strange expression
                        on her mobile face. It was as if the skipping, jumping crowd of country
                        beauties and men in pink was hardly real; the chatter, the laughter, the
                        blare of the band sounded strange even to Chester, who was only watching her
                        face with its curiously concentrated expression....
                    Mlle. Mankovich would not dance, and neither did Lord St. Ambrose, so it was
                        perhaps natural that the two should, towards the end of the evening, spend a
                        considerable time together in the great winter garden, which had been made
                        inviting with basket chairs among the palms and camellias.
                    She had, indeed, just vacated her chair and re-entered the ballroom,
                        accompanied by her host, when Frank and Mary came in at the other end. They
                        sauntered along slowly to where the other two had been sitting, and, the two
                        chairs being placed intimately near, sat down in them and began to talk.
                    ‘There's a bit of paper under your chair,
                        Frank,’ said Lady St. Ambrose. ‘Pick it up. I do hate an untidy
                        conservatory. How often have I told McTaggart I will have everything in
                        perfect order!’
                    Chester bent down, routed under his chair, and tossed a piece of folded paper
                        on to his hostess's lap.
                    ‘If it's a billet-doux, you'd better take the responsibility of finding out.
                        Sentiment ain't in my line,’ he said.
                    ‘But—it's a cheque!’ muttered Lady St. Ambrose. ‘I wonder—oh, Frank!’ She
                        handed it to him without a word.
                    It was a cheque for £1000, made payable to Eve Mankovich, and signed by Lord
                        St. Ambrose.
                    ‘It is just as I feared,’ she said, after a moment's silence. ‘This woman—oh,
                        it is infamous!’
                    To her surprise, Frank flushed up as if his own honour had been impugned.
                    ‘Don't judge her hastily, for God's sake!... I know it can be explained, but
                        I have not the right to tell you. I have sworn to secrecy. I will fetch
                        Mlle. Mankovich, Mary, and she will tell you herself.... Come into your own
                        little room. We can't talk here, people will overhear us. Come.’
                    
                    Mary St. Ambrose stood, dazed, by the fire in the homely little old-fashioned
                        room. with its unromantic, mid-Victorian surroundings, clutching in her hand
                        the tell-tale cheque, when Frank appeared with Mlle. Eve.
                    Lady St. Ambrose raised her honest, dog-like eyes, and surveyed the alluring
                        creature who stood, perfectly composed, before her.
                    ‘I think, mademoiselle,’ she said coldly, handing her the cheque, ‘that you
                        dropped something just now in the conservatory.’
                    A wonderful smile lit up the strange girl's face as she came forward, and,
                        without a trace of embarrassment, took the incriminating slip of paper from
                        her hostess's hand.
                    ‘Ah, but I am stupid,’ she said, softly; ‘I dropped the cheque. To-night I am
                        as one distracted.... There is so much to do; I have to think of everything.
                        Ah, Lady Ambrose, this is your husband's contribution to my fund—your good,
                        your noble, your generous husband's gift. It is for my people—for my
                        people!’ she cried, pressing the piece of paper to her lips. ‘Listen, dear
                        Lady St. Ambrose, you are a sweet, a
                        generous woman, and you will understand. I start for Rhodopia to-morrow
                        morning. The time is ripe, the hour is at hand. The rising is all
                        prepared—all that we wanted was money.... And, mon
                            Dieu, what has not been given me for the cause while I am here
                        in England! How many English Liberals have given—but with a generosity—to
                        our fund!... Some have promised to come and fight—have they not, Mr.
                        Chester?’ she added, with a smile. ‘It is January now, but when the first
                        leaves uncurl in the valleys, then will the men of Rhodopia rise against the
                        Ottoman. English money we have, and Bulgarian sympathy to back us. My father
                        was killed in the lines before Plevna, three months after I was born. Do you
                        think we Slavs ever forget? I have worked for this rising ever since I was a
                        child—in Petersburg, where I was brought up, in Paris, in England....
                        Rhodopia will yet be a free Slav nation. It is for these dreams, look you,
                        that it is worth while to be alive!’
                    Lady St. Ambrose made an impulsive movement forward, put out her hand, with
                        perfect loyalty, to her strange guest:
                    ‘My dear, I wish you bon voyage and good luck!’ she said, with a voice full
                        of emotion.
                    The girl bent low over her hostess's hand and kissed it.
                    ‘To-morrow morning, quite early, I must start,’ she said. ‘I shall be very
                        sorry to go. It is restful, it is home-like here,’ she added. ‘Out yonder
                        there will be blood and tears.... The telegram I had to-night was in cypher.
                        It was from Boris Sarafoff. The man I went to meet the other day, dear Lady
                        St. Ambrose, was a special agent of the Macedonian Committee. We are in
                        close connection, of course, with both Bulgaria and Macedonia.... Rhodopia,
                        my beautiful, unhappy country, will yet be a free nation.... Good-bye, God
                        bless you, dear people.’
                    Eve Mankovich and Frank Chester clasped hands in the doorway like two loyal
                        friends who understand each other.
                    ‘When the leaves uncurl in the valleys, Mr. Chester?’ she said, gravely.
                    And Frank nodded.
                    Left alone in the little smug, mid-Victorian room, Mary St. Ambrose stood
                        looking thoughtfully into the fire. ‘It's all a piece of folly,’ she said
                            to herself. ‘They won't succeed. And
                        yet it's a piece of divine folly.’... And Frank was going, too. Yes, Frank
                        would go. He was just one of those stolid, silent, obstinate creatures who,
                        once they make up their minds, would push through a stone wall.... And
                        Peter? She wondered, in a dazed sort of way, what he would be like after
                        Mlle. Mankovich's departure. This girl, with her strange eyes, her sombre
                        gowns, and her disquieting dreams, had somehow made their smug, contented,
                        jog-trot life seem ridiculous.... Out yonder, in the near East, one had a
                        vision of clashing swords, of bloody sunsets, of triumphant dawns.... Here,
                        in this fat midland shire, in a park swathed in mist, in a mansion handed
                        down in orderly succession from father to son, what did they know of these
                        mad heroisms, of these forlorn hopes?
                    She looked around the little room, which spoke so eloquently of tame
                        conventions and uninspired ideals.... The bust of Clytie, with its puerile
                        prettiness; the Landseer pictures, in which stags and dogs were depicted
                        with the expression of human beings; the prie-Dieu chairs in
                        Berlin-woolwork, on which no one had ever
                        been known to pray....
                    ‘She will go away, and she will never come back,’ thought Mary. ‘I wonder if
                        Peter will be unhappy.... And Frank? Well, I have lost my friend Frank
                        too!’
                
            
            
                
                THE KIDNAPPING OF PHIL ALTAMORE
                
                    I
                    I DON'T say that I altogether approved of the kidnapping of Phil
                        Altamore, yet who shall say that this somewhat desperate adventure was not
                        justified in the end? The way of it was this.
                    The English Quay in St. Petersburg on a September afternoon is, so far as
                        Society is concerned, a tolerably deserted spot. Therefore, when I beheld
                        Mrs. Jack Ormesby—Mrs. Jack, whom I suspected to be in Norway, in the
                        Mediterranean, or even in Alaska—driving along at break-neck speed in a
                        shabby droshky past the Winter Palace, I must confess to feeling, in
                        addition to enraptured, a trifle surprised. It was, however, the business of
                        Her Britannic Majesty's Embassy not to be surprised at anything—especially
                        at what happened in Russia.
                    Meanwhile the lady was making desperate
                        efforts to attract the coachman's attention. I ran after her, shouting in
                        Russian to the fellow, and at length he pulled up.
                    ‘Thanks awfully, Kenneth,’ said Mrs. Jack, in her deep-toned, enthusiastic
                        voice, as composedly as if she had met me the day before. ‘These Noah's Ark
                        creatures seem to be imbeciles. They don't understand French, German, or
                        English—nor even that primitive method of communication, a violent dig in
                        the back with a parasol.’
                    ‘Their backs are stuffed, dear lady. You mustn't expect them to feel anything
                        there,’ said I. ‘But where on earth did you drop from?’
                    ‘I didn't drop from earth. I came by water. There's the yacht,’ explained the
                        lady, waving towards a dazzling white craft moored out in mid-Neva. ‘I've
                        kidnapped a boy, Kenneth.’
                    ‘The deuce you have!’ said I. ‘How old? In long clothes? And are you going to
                        adopt him?’
                    ‘Well, I'm almost old enough to be this child's mother. He's twenty-two.’
                    I whistled thoughtfully.
                    ‘Twenty-two, dear lady! That's rather a different matter, eh? Won't there
                            be some other woman, as well as the
                        young gentleman's mamma, who may reasonably object?’
                    ‘That's just it,’ nodded Mrs. Ormesby. ‘There is a young woman—a dreadful
                        young woman, and he was to have been married to her this very morning at St.
                        Martin's-in-the-Fields. Have you ever noticed, Kenneth,’ she went on,
                        impressively, ‘that most of the insane, ridiculous marriages—marriages which
                        have Disaster written across them from the very beginning—are celebrated at
                        St. Martin's-in-the-Fields?’
                    ‘Most marriages are ridiculous,’ said I, with a shrug, ‘if you think about
                        them candidly. Why was this one going to be worse than the others?’
                    ‘Ah, you don't understand,’ sighed Mrs. Jack. ‘But get in, and tell him to
                        drive anywhere I can buy the boy some collars.’
                    There is very little room in a Russian droshky for two, and we must have
                        looked tolerably confidential as we sped along the Quay and through the
                        great square towards the Nevski Prospekt.
                    ‘Well,’ said I, admiring the lady's handsome profile (I've always regretted
                        not having seen more of Joan since Jack Ormesby died), ‘go on. Confess your crime. The secrecy of the
                        Chancellerie shall engulf it for ever. The Chief's away in Finland—fishing
                        on the Lakes. I'm in charge at present.’
                    ‘It's Phil Altamore, the poet,’ said my charming companion. ‘A boy of genius.
                        Another Shelley!’
                    ‘And you're afraid of another Harriet Westbrook?’ I inquired. Somehow or
                        other, the thing was beginning to bore me. I knew of old that Mrs. Jack was
                        essentially a woman of emotions and caprices, but, hang it all! a man
                        prefers those emotions and caprices to be concerned with himself.
                    ‘I've no official information about the young gentleman,’ said I, in my most
                        ambassadorial manner. ‘But now I think of it, some of the weekly papers have
                        been booming him a bit of late. But he hasn't left Oxford yet, has he?’
                    ‘He left,’ she said, ‘when he was just twenty-one. The air of the place was
                        too damp. It didn't agree with him.’
                    ‘Sounds uncommonly like bein' sent down.’
                    Mrs. Ormesby sniffed.
                    ‘But how did you bring it off?’ I asked. anxious to change the conversation.
                            ‘In what manner did you tear him from
                        the arms of his expectant bride?’
                    ‘Well, Kenneth, you see it was like this. Poor dear Phil, I could see, was in
                        despair. This Rosalba girl—or rather woman, for the creature's ten years
                        older than he is—got hold of him when he was all infant—an infant of
                        nineteen. The Altamores, who are Suffolk people, you know, sent Phil over to
                        Paris to rub him up a bit, and she captured him in the Quartier Latin, where
                        they met in one of those amazing studios. She said she had been a governess,
                        a companion. I fancy she was singing English songs at some of the cafés chantants.’
                    ‘Ah, the lady is a singer?’
                    ‘She thinks she is! Well, some sort of promise was extorted from this
                        unfortunate boy three years ago; and this year Miss Rosalba—that is the
                        preposterous name by which she calls herself—has come to England, descended
                        on Philip, and demanded his hand. Naturally the poor boy, who has been
                        rather spoilt in London, had forgotten all about her.’
                    ‘That was awkward,’ I murmured; ‘one should at least cultivate a memory for
                        one's matrimonial engagements.’
                    
                    ‘Don't talk rubbish, Kenneth. Of course he remembered the engagement, poor
                        little wretch. It was the woman he had forgotten.’
                    ‘Naturally,’ said I. ‘But tell me, was he willingly abducted?’
                    ‘Not at all. He didn't know an abduction was taking place! The boy had been
                        coming to me nearly every day. As things closed round him, I could see how
                        the whole affair was preying on his mind. His people, of course, were
                        furious. Phil is the eldest son, they have a lovely place, and his mother
                        had, I believe, an excellent match in hand for him.... One night he told me
                        the whole story of this dreadful entanglement. He even brought her one day
                        to see me. She is quite impossible.’
                    ‘And you advised him, of course, to break the thing off, and offer the lady a
                        handsome sum down?’
                    ‘He wouldn't hear of it. He said it would be odious, dishonourable. The
                        marriage was settled, the wedding-day fixed. So I took the affair into my
                        own hands. I had arranged to go a cruise on the White Witch,
                        and the yacht lay at Tilbury, victualled, manned, the captain aboard, ready to start. I told Phil I was going
                        away for some months to the Mediterranean. I begged him to come down to
                        Tilbury and dine on the yacht the night before we started. It was to be a
                        little farewell party.’
                    ‘And he came?’
                    ‘While we were at dinner, the captain had orders to slip anchor, and run down
                        the river. We never stopped till we got to Kronstadt this morning.’
                    ‘That was smart,’ said I; ‘but I suppose you know you can be had up for
                        abducting an infant?’
                    ‘Rubbish!’ snapped Mrs. Jack. ‘He's twenty-two.’
                    ‘Where is Altamore now?’ I demanded.
                    ‘In the white saloon, without a collar, reading Andersen's Fairy
                            Tales,’ replied his hostess, with conscious pride.
                    ‘He must feel depressed, poor devil. You couldn't imprison a man more
                        effectually than by depriving him of a clean collar.’
                    ‘Oh, Phil's not like commonplace men. The dear boy! He wouldn't notice if he
                        had a collar on or not. Why, he wanted to come with me just now. As a matter
                        of fact, he can't land, for he hasn't got a 
                            pass-
                            passport
                         port. They made a great to-do at
                        Kron-stadt. Collars are a mere detail.’
                    Nevertheless, his abductress, when I had convoyed her into the smartest men's
                        haberdasher's on the Nevski, was considerably exercised to find the exact
                        shape and size to suit her poet. But helping a charming woman to choose
                        articles of wearing apparel for another young man palls after twenty minutes
                        or so. I was glad when we got out.
                    ‘Of course you'll come back and dine on the White Witch,’ said
                        Mrs. Jack. ‘I've got one or two pleasant people on board, and I want to
                        introduce you to Philip. We're just out there, by the Nikolai Bridge.’
                    We were whirled back. Petersburg, I was glad to see, was looking its best.
                        The Winter Palace, though imposing enough, is not, in the early autumn, a
                        particularly cheerful-looking habitation, with all its windows economically
                        smeared with white-wash, to exclude the light and air. Yet, now, in the
                        September sunset, as I pointed it out to my traveller, it had a magnificence
                        which, though temporary, was impressive enough. As we stepped into the
                        yacht's steam-launch at the foot of the Nikolai Bridge, that one stone and
                        iron structure among the many rough
                        log-bridges which cross the big river, it was a brilliantly coloured
                        scene—more suggestive of the gorgeous East than of the frozen North—which
                        met my English traveller's eyes.
                    As we steamed out into mid-stream and looked back at the city, Mrs. Jack grew
                        enthusiastic. The Winter Palace had turned a deep rose, the whiter buildings
                        had taken on a pinkish hue, and the glittering monster golden dome of St.
                        Isaac's was ablaze in the sunset. On the farther shore there were the gilt
                        and green towers of the Fortress of St. Peter and St. Paul. There was
                        colour, vivid colour everywhere. Every house had its coating of pink or
                        yellow, its roof of red or green.
                    ‘It's magnificent!’ she said, pausing at the top of the gangway and turning
                        to look at the brilliant spectacle.
                    As we stood there, a pale boy, with long, lankish hair and sensitive lips,
                        glided out from a doorway, and slipped his hand into Mrs. Jack's. She held
                        it fast, in a protecting and maternal way. I guessed at once it was the
                        future Shelley.
                    ‘This, Kenneth,’ said the lady with pride, ‘this is Mr. Philip Altamore.’
                
                
                    
                    II
                    ON closer acquaintance, Mr. Philip Altamore revealed himself as one
                        of the most silent individuals I have met in the course of a tolerably wide
                        experience of men. His silence, however, was imposing enough; more imposing,
                        somehow, than the elaborate eloquence of other people. He simply said
                        nothing at all. His eyes followed Mrs. Jack all over the ship. It was
                        obvious that he regarded her as his guardian angel; he had the air of
                        gratitude towards his abductress which a woman shows to a man who has saved
                        her life.... The name of Rosie Rosalba never passed his lips. He seemed like
                        a creature who is recovering from a dangerous illness. He had the eyes of a
                        beautiful woman—a woman in a Burne-Jones picture—and he had, in addition,
                        the fantastic, caressing ways of a child. I loathe effeminate men, yet there
                        was something curiously pathetic about this boy which made you like him in
                        spite of everything.
                    Nevertheless, I couldn't help thinking that
                        Mrs. Jack had got herself and her poet into a tight corner. After all, he
                        was of age, and if he had promised to marry somebody, why, short of her
                        being his own grandmother, he was morally bound to do so. As an Embassy
                        official, I declined to have anything to do with the matter. All I could do
                        was to fix it up about his missing passport with the Chief of Police.
                        Moreover, it annoyed me to see Mrs. Jack—Mrs. Jack, who used to have at
                        least a liking for me, two years ago, at Carlsbad—taking such an interest in
                        this lanky-haired youth. I couldn't help chaffing her all that week, when I
                        was made to do courier, and trot the whole party round to do the sights.
                        There are strangely constituted persons, it would seem, who like going over
                        palaces; and for these Petersburg must be a veritable Paradise. Mrs. Ormesby
                        was one of these. She spared me nothing. Good Lord! the amount of ground we
                        must have travelled that week; miles of the Winter Palace and miles of the
                        Hermitage.
                    ‘Better let 'em marry, and fight it out like the rest of them,’ said I, one
                        afternoon in the Hermitage, when she had been bewailing the curious apathy
                        of her poet.
                    
                    ‘Impossible!’ she cried; ‘now I've kidnapped him, I'm going to carry the
                        thing through.’
                    ‘It's all a mistake, dear lady. A happy poet! Who ever heard of such a thing?
                        It's unnatural. You're taking the man's bread out of his mouth. What on
                        earth is he to write about, if he's quite comfortable like you and me, and
                        other reasonable mortals? Besides, if he doesn't make a preposterous
                        marriage, like most other poets, where do the biographers come in? Think of
                        the many estimable middle-class gentlemen who have supported wives and
                        families entirely on the—er—the little moral eccentricities of Byron and of
                        Shelley?’
                    But Mrs. Jack was getting angry. ‘Don't be a fool, Kenneth. I'm half afraid,
                        when he wakes up out of his dream, that the boy will go back, and do what he
                        calls the “honourable” thing.’
                    ‘Or she might follow him here?’ I suggested airily. I was getting rather sick
                        of Mr. Philip's amorous affairs.
                    ‘The gods forbid!’ cried she, marching, with a true Briton's delight, towards
                        the famous Sir Joshua in one of the smaller rooms of the Palace.
                    
                    Nevertheless, it was this absolutely unforeseen catastrophe which came to
                        pass.
                    Naturally enough, Mrs. Ormesby wanted to meet some Russians, but natives are
                        not easy to catch in Petersburg in September. They are apt to be at
                        Aix-les-Bains, at Marienbad, at Trouville; anywhere, in short, except in
                        their own country. The Princess Kalitsine, however, was at her country
                        house, within reach, and a judiciously worded note brought her to town to
                        spend a few days with our English party. Sonia, to be sure, has Anglomania
                        in a marked degree. She drives a high-stepping cob in an English dogcart,
                        wears London tailor's clothes, and a stiff sailor hat slanting over her
                        long, grey-green eyes, those Slav eyes which are so enchanting to the
                        initiated. The Princess and Mrs. Jack got on at once, or pretended to, after
                        the manner of well-bred women, which, after all, comes to the same thing in
                        the end. One or two young men were available also, though I was not so sure
                        whether they would be such a success as the Princess Sonia. You can
                        generally rely on the Eternal Feminine for social purposes. Who was it that
                        declared that Woman has no country?
                    
                    Well, one night I was to give these people dinner in a music-garden in the
                        Islands, a suburb of Petersburg, where you can drive for an hour or more
                        through woods of silver birch, past the summer palaces of princes and the
                        wooden châlets of merchants; over little bridges, past gardens laid out in
                        English fashion, or ornamented with coloured drolls after the Swedish mode,
                        and be amid green trees all the time. The place is dotted with restaurants
                        and cafés, where the gilded youth of Petersburg make merry of a night, and
                        where the Russian gipsies dance their wild dances, and sing their queer,
                        half-sad songs.
                    Everything seemed propitious. The night was fine and wonderfully warm. The
                        gardens, to be sure, were a trifle dull and empty, for your Russian prefers
                        rather to sup than to dine al fresco; and,
                        till eleven or so, I did not expect many people to be there.
                    I gave them a Russian dinner; vodki and caviare, soup with pasties and sour
                        cream, and cigarettes served between the courses.
                    Even Philip Altamore woke up a bit. The Princess had taken an immense fancy
                        to the boy Sonia is learned about the 
                            Eliza-
                            Elizabethan
                         bethan period, and will quote
                        you sonnets of Spenser by the yard), and those two, after dinner, wandered
                        away to hear the Russian part-songs. Mrs. Jack did not want to hear them;
                        she said it was quite enough to see the performers—in the distance. It is
                        true that to eyes accustomed to the open-air music halls of Paris the scene
                        must have looked odd enough. On a huge cavernous open-air stage, lighted by
                        wan electric lights, there was placed a circle of singularly ill-favoured
                        ladies. One and all were dressed in nun-like gowns of sombre black wool,
                        which enveloped them from neck to wrist, nor had they pandered to the public
                        by adding fictitious roses to their pale faces, or gold to their
                        dun-coloured hair.
                    ‘Good gracious!’ said Mrs. Jack, ‘do they hire the inmates of charitable
                        institutions out here to sing at music halls?’ They were performing, I could
                        hear, a mournful Russian part-song, and the principal singer, who was
                        habited in a high black silk dress, was struggling in vain to rouse the
                        enthusiasm of the audience. As usual, they were listened to by rows of bored
                        and pale-faced citizens, who neither clapped nor applauded.
                    ‘When it is over, the audience will go on
                        sitting there, in absolute silence, waiting for further developments,’ I
                        hastened to explain. ‘In point of solemnity (at any rate in public and when
                        he is sober) your Russian is an Oriental.’
                    ‘Must be a trifle discouraging for the artists,’ murmured the lady.
                    I took a chair nearer.
                    ‘You have made me very happy coming to-night like this, Mrs. Jack,’ I began
                        in my most impressive manner.
                    ‘Oh, it's been charming.... And it seems so far, so very far, from St.
                        Martin's-in-the-Fields!’
                    ‘Beastly hole!’ said I, taking the shapely hand that hung nearest my chair,
                        and kissing its soft suede covering, gently, respectfully, in Russian
                        fashion. When I raised my eyes slowly to see how the lady received my
                        homage, I was mortified to see that she was totally oblivious of the whole
                        tender proceeding. Her eyes were fixed in an incredulous stare, her lips
                        were slightly parted. I looked in the direction in which she was gazing, and
                        saw two unmistakable Englishwomen bearing straight down upon us.
                    ‘My Heavens! It's Rosie Rosalba!’ gasped Mrs. Jack.
                
                
                    
                    III
                    IT was an odious moment. If there's one thing that makes a man feel
                        deucedly nervous, it is the possibility of an encounter between two irate
                        women.
                    All this time Miss Rosalba was descending inexorably upon us, an avenging
                        figure, a bride in search of a bridegroom who has been rapt from her
                        encircling arms.
                    Miss Rosie Rosalba was long and lean, with a bright natural colour, and
                        unnaturally bright hair. I don't say she wasn't good-looking. Mrs. Jack
                        always maintained that she was hideous. She was dressed in showy
                        shop-clothes, wore a gigantic hat with many feathers, and had the air of a
                        young woman who has pushed, shoved, and fended for herself with varying
                        fortune since she was fifteen. Her companion was a nondescript little woman
                        of fifty or thereabouts.
                    I hardly dared look. I certainly didn't want to listen to what followed. The
                        injured young lady was voluble, and I was conscious that she was demanding
                        of Mrs. Jack (naturally enough, poor girl) what she had done with the bridegroom-elect, and how,
                        after the banns had been put up and the wedding-day fixed, she had had the
                        face to spirit him away? The young lady, moreover, laid stress on the
                        trouble she had had, the expense she had been put to in following up the
                        trail, tracking them to Petersburg, and the difficulty she had experienced
                        in reaching the White Witch, and finding out our whereabouts
                        that very evening. But above all, she demanded, as her right, the young
                        poet.
                    Mrs. Jack's coolness was nothing short of amazing, considering that she was
                        clearly in the wrong. Sitting comfortably in her chair, with the girl raving
                        and fuming over her, she merely urged, in her deep, sympathetic voice, the
                        inadvisability of such a marriage, and even pointed out, with considerable
                        tact, how it would put an end to Miss Rosalba's own interesting artistic
                        career.
                    But even this neat point had no effect on our young lady. The crisis, to be
                        sure, was brought about by the sudden apparition of Philip and the Princess
                        Kalitsine, who were walking towards us down the gravel path, their heads
                        close together. They made the prettiest
                        picture:—the beautiful pale blonde Princess in her trailing lace skirts and
                        her shady straw hat; Philip, looking more animated than I had ever seen him
                        before, with one hand laid lightly on her arm as he quoted a favourite line
                        of poetry.
                    Miss Rosalba rushed forward and seized his arm.
                    ‘Philip!’ she cried, ‘my Philip!’
                    Great poet or not (and afterwards he became very famous), I shall always
                        maintain that Philip Altamore at this juncture looked a bit of a fool. There
                        he stood, silent as usual, gazing at the three women's faces who surrounded
                        him. I, perhaps, was the only one who saw that he seemed to move
                        instinctively towards the Princess.
                    It was then that Miss Rosalba turned and suddenly met the calm scrutiny of
                        our Russian guest.
                    ‘Mon Dieu!’ said Sonia, ‘cette petite Rosa.’ What brings you here, of
                        all places?’ she went on in English, and in a voice of unmistakable
                        disgust.
                    It was quite evident to all of us that Miss Rosalba's high colour was
                        natural, for it had faded quite away and left her cheeks a drabbish-white.
                        That she was taken by surprise, as well as
                        frightened, was perfectly obvious.
                    And then, to the dismay of our little group, Miss Rosalba began to sob. Some
                        Russians were gathering round. We were in for a disagreeable scene. There
                        was only one thing to be done, or the story would be all over Petersburg.
                        Although I had vowed a hundred times not to be mixed up in this idiotic
                        affair, I was constrained to take the girl apart, tell her who I was, and
                        invite her to come to the Embassy next day, when some arrangement might be
                        come to. Then I put the two women into a droshky and bade the driver take
                        them to the hotel at which they were staying. It was evident, however, that
                        Miss Rosalba was quite at home in Petersburg.
                    The Princess Kalitsine drove back with the much-disputed poet to the Quay.
                        She had been invited to sleep on board that night.
                    ‘It's the very devil,’ said I to Mrs Jack, as we tucked ourselves into a
                        droshky. ‘The Princess and Miss Rosalba seem to know each other, and Sonia
                        isn't keen on claiming the acquaintance. What can it all mean?’
                    ‘The Princess Kalitsine,’ said Mrs Jack with conviction, ‘will tell me
                            to-morrow morning. It's something
                        damaging to that young woman's character, and she wouldn't say it before
                        Phil—or you.’
                    ‘That's likely enough,’ said I. ‘Sonia's such a good sort.’
                    But after all, as it was I who was deputed to settle this disagreeable
                        affair, the ladies took me into their confidence.
                    ‘As for this young person,’ said the Princess Kalitsine at our council of war
                        in the cabin, ‘I may as well tell you, my dear friends, that I had to
                        dismiss her from my service some five or six years ago.’
                    ‘Your service?’
                    ‘She was the English governess to my baby Xenia. I have a husband—enfin, the Prince is not too austere. This
                        little Rosa was quite impossible to have in the house. There was my brother,
                        too. You know Vladimir, Kenneth—how impressionable he is, and how he adores
                            les Anglaises? In England, of course,
                        your husbands, your brothers, they are perfect, are they not? With us, we
                        must take precautions.’
                    ‘Phew!’ said I. ‘Have you any proofs?’
                    ‘Proofs? I have every proof. Letters from this girl—attempts at extorting
                        money—’
                    
                    ‘That pretty well settles the matter,’ said I, ‘though she may turn nasty,
                        still.’
                    ‘Offer her,’ said Mrs. Jack, ‘at least five hundred pounds. I'm sure his
                        mother will give it cheerfully.’ And this was what was finally settled when
                        we had talked the affair over at length. But Phil Altamore had to be told. I
                        don't know whether it was timorousness or diplomacy, but we both, with
                        hearty accord, begged the Princess Sonia to tell the whole story to
                        Phil.
                    ‘At any rate,’ said Mrs. Jack, when the Princess had left the cabin, ‘if she
                        tells Phil the truth, he won't even want to marry the Rosalba girl—’
                    ‘Well, he ain't talkative,’ I said thoughtfully. ‘I wonder what the deuce he
                        does want?’
                    ‘At present,’ she said delightedly, ‘he seems to want to see a good deal of
                        that charming Sonia Kalitsine.’
                    ‘A Russian Princess may be worse for him, in the end, than an English
                        hussy.’
                    ‘But he can't marry her,’ said Mrs. Jack triumphantly, as we both emerged on
                        deck, and saw the Princess and Altamore pacing the milky-white boards in
                        close confabulation. Was she telling him the unpleasant story, I wondered, or rather, with feminine tact,
                        arranging it so as not to wound his masculine egotism?
                    When the time came for the momentous interview at the Embassy, I found that I
                        had, in Miss Rosie Rosalba, an uncommonly sharp young person to deal with.
                        It was a bit awkward, to be sure (and I wouldn't trust the Third Secretary),
                        that Her Majesty's chargé d'affaires in a
                        great European capital should be arguing with and cajoling a dismissed
                        nursery-governess. She did not attempt to deny the Princess Sonia's version
                        of her past history, but maintained, impudently enough, that it had nothing
                        to do with Phil Altamore's promise of marriage. Heaven knows what shifty
                        attorney she had consulted before she started, but Miss Rosalba talked
                        glibly enough of letting all London know how Mrs. Ormesby had stolen her
                        lover away from her.
                    ‘I call it kidnapping, and nothing else,’ she declared.
                    ‘So do I,’ I replied suavely. ‘You've described the case exactly. Only, as
                        the victim of the outrage doesn't seem to want to be given up, let me
                        implore you, my dear young lady, to accept this little cheque for £500, and let the matter be settled. If the
                        Princess Kalitsine,’ I added, ‘gave her evidence in a court of law, you
                        would never get any damages from an English jury. Five hundred pounds, on
                        the other hand, will not only amply repay any expenses you may have been put
                        to, but will be useful in your career. You will allow me, will you not, to
                        send and book your passage on the steamer to Hull to-morrow?’
                    This, indeed, was a course which I urgently pressed, as the Chief was coming
                        back at once from the Lakes. Some important despatches had arrived from
                        London, and he would be back to-morrow morning. What, indeed, was I to do,
                        when the Chief appeared, with Miss Rosie Rosalba?
                    It was late when I boarded the White Witch, and found Mrs. Jack
                        and her guests playing poker in the saloon. Two, how-ever, were missing.
                    ‘She's taken the money, and she's going back to England to-morrow,’ I gasped,
                        sinking on to a divan and mopping my brow.
                    ‘So you've settled it, Kenneth? Good. We'll leave to-morrow for Stockholm,’
                        declared Mrs. Jack. ‘And never any more do I interfere in any one's love
                        affairs.
                    
                    ‘You're going to-morrow?’ I said in dismay. ‘And where do I come in?’
                    ‘Get leave and come after us. I can't stay in St. Petersburg any longer.
                        There's been nothing but worry and bother here.’
                    ‘Seems to me,’ I said gloomily (for I detest ingratitude in woman), ‘that
                        you're taking your worry and bother with you. Where's Altamore?’ I added
                        impressively.
                    ‘Reading Aglavaine et Sélysette to the Princess Sonia!’
                        laughed Mrs. Jack. ‘And we're not going to take him with us. He's going on a
                        visit to the Kalitsine's country place.’
                    Hang the boy! I thought. As if it wasn't bad enough to have Mrs. Jack
                        maundering about him, now I should hear about him all the winter from the
                        Princess Kalitsine and her set.... Well, well, if I got leave to go to
                        Stockholm, who knows what might happen? If Mrs. Jack said ‘yes,’ who knows
                        if I mightn't have a rise in the diplomatic service, and even get Athens or
                        Copenhagen?
                    Next day, before the yacht sailed, there was a little gathering by the
                        Nikolai Bridge to see the Princess and her guest off. Our last view of
                        Philip Altamore was typical, indeed, of
                        that young man's subsequent career.
                    The Princess Sonia's three-horsed carriage, with its gay-coloured rosettes
                        and trappings, its magnificent coachman in his voluminous robe and his
                        low-crowned hat, was waiting on the Quay to drive them down to the
                        Kalitsine's country place. Seated by the side of his lovely hostess,
                        screened from the September sun by her rose-coloured parasol, he was finally
                        whirled away in a cloud of fluttering ribbons, in a sea of tempestuous
                        petticoats.
                
            
            
                
                WHEN PURFLEET WENT TO THE WAR
                
                    I
                    IT was admitted on all hands that Purfleet was a good sort, and that
                        Lady Purfleet, as far as that went, was a good sort also; why they did not
                        get on better their genially tolerant world could never quite make out. Jack
                        and Bibi, the two children, if occasionally a trifle outspoken with their
                        parents, were pronounced jolly little chaps, especially Bibi, the girl,
                        whose fat legs, aureole of flaming hair, and caustic remarks on men and
                        things made the joy of the Purfleets' immediate circle. On the whole, this
                        young lady—a Cockney by birth—preferred London and the staircase of the
                        Purfleets' house in Curzon Street as a field of observation from which to
                        view the human comedy. At Valeham Royal, as she very justly observed, there
                        were either no people at all for her to
                        criticise or to ingratiate herself with, or else, from October to December,
                        a succession of middle-week visitors who were grumpy and preoccupied at
                        breakfast, who disappeared in checks of fearful and wonderful size all day,
                        and who talked of nothing but the poor, sleek, bleeding birds which were
                        heaped up in the gun-room towards evening.
                    In Curzon Street, on the other hand, what endless surprises in the way of new
                        acquaintances did not the possession of a pretty and modish mother ensure!
                        What a procession of beautiful young men, with shining boots, and Russian
                        violets in their coats, mounted the narrow London staircase, and, if one
                        could evade one's nurse effectually, what joys might not a foggy London
                        afternoon contain! Though her whole heart was given to her father, Bibi was
                        aware that, as an item of London society, the tall, long-backed mother, who
                        wore her clothes so superbly, was much the more shining social success of
                        the two. And the child, with her modern and almost morbid love of
                        approbation, was a small piece chipped off the solid block of Lady
                        Purfleet's egotism. So this winter, when,
                        like the last, Valeham Royal was shut up, and the master of the house was
                        away with the local Yeomanry in South Africa, Bibi attached herself
                        passionately to two or three of the wearers of shiny boots and Russian
                        violets, to whom she would confide alarming details of her father's martial
                        prowess.
                    Finding herself alone in the boudoir with a new admirer, a small,
                        short-sighted man with a pink face and a pince-nez, Bibi, who was busily
                        constructing a fort with the aid of some tin tacks, held forth: ‘Father's at
                        the war. He's fighting ever so hard! Father killed a Boer, all his own self,
                        with his pistol.’
                    ‘How interesting,’ murmured the little man, adjusting his pince-nez and
                        surveying the daughter of so patriotic a sire.
                    ‘An' I know what. I b'lieve father's killed thousands of 'em. Could you kill
                        a Boer?’ demanded the child, with much interest.
                    ‘Dear me! I don't know, I'm sure. I never tried,’ tittered the little
                        man.
                    ‘Why didn't you go to the war?’ asked Bibi presently, bending over her fort,
                        and hammering with a fat fist. ‘You oughter gone. Jack would have gone, only they won't have
                        boys. An' you're not a boy, although you look so funny and pink. You
                            oughter gone to the war.’
                    ‘Bibi!’ murmured Lady Purfleet. appearing in the doorway, a vision of white
                        lace and dark furs; ‘what rubbish are you talking? Say good-night to the
                        Duke, and run upstairs to the nursery.’ And presently Bibi was borne,
                        expostulating violently, away.
                    One may as well say at once that Lady Purfleet, always a little bored and
                        detached, except when it was a question of her own looks, favoured none of
                        these swains beyond bounds. She had to have her little court, a sufficiency
                        of adorers to swing incense before her loveliness, a phalanx of solid
                        worshippers to show that she was courted among women: this much she owed to
                        herself. Venetia Purfleet had always been a beauty, and she had hardly known
                        a time, even when she was in the schoolroom, when the spectacle of swaying
                        censers had not met her approving gaze. For the rest, she was a good-hearted
                        woman, and, if she had not lived in the vapidest set in town, she might have
                        developed long ago into a real human
                        being. Whether she ever succeeded in doing so we shall presently see.
                    Although she had not given many outward manifestations of anxiety, it is
                        certain that Lady Purfleet had felt her husband's absence. They had parted,
                        it is true, without emotion on either side. Only the week before he sailed
                        he had made, as she remembered with a smile, a ridiculous fuss about some
                        man or other; whether it was Lord Parkhurst or Jimmie Chorley she couldn't
                        quite remember, but, at any rate, the thing was quite absurd, and she wasn't
                        going to be dictated to as to whom she should receive or whom she should
                        not. Nevertheless, she had thought of her husband often since then, just as
                        she saw him last, in his unbecoming khaki, detraining his troops at
                        Southampton, his face rather set and white beneath his slouch hat and
                        feathers....
                    And what things had happened since then! Purfleet had been at Paardeberg, and
                        in Ian Hamilton's march. He had got through his attack of enteric with
                        marvellous rapidity, and all this autumn he had been one of those in hot
                        pursuit of Christian de Wet. He did not write often—he had never been much
                        of a letter-writer—and Lady Purfleet, on
                        her side, was apt to conduct her correspondence by means of the electric
                        telegraph.
                    And so things stood when Lady Purfleet first met Adrian Venn.
                
                
                    II
                    LOOKED at from the strictly impartial point of view, Sir Adrian Venn
                        was not much more attractive than her absent husband, but then, as it was
                        sagely observed in society, the Governor of the Semilina Islands had not the
                        disadvantage of being Lady Purfleet's legitimate lord. Then, again, he was
                        only to be in England for a short time longer (he had already spent ten
                        months of his year's absence), and every one knows how an approaching
                        departure hastens to a crisis affairs of this delicate and precarious
                        nature. Sir Adrian was a man of forty-two, who was understood to have had a
                        past of a devastating, if somewhat sentimental, nature. With the broad,
                        well-developed brow and longish hair of the typical literary person, he
                        tempered this untoward appearance to the
                        world of Mayfair by dressing admirably, and retaining a certain indolence of
                        manner acquired by ten years in the Tropics. Some twelve months ago he had
                        published a little volume entitled On the Reefs, a little
                        volume which had pleased the critics, and also, by some curious chance, had
                        reached a considerable circulation among people in society.
                    It was patent that the author had not only suffered deeply, but had solaced
                        himself with cultivating the most amiable of styles. This cri du cœur from the Pacific became the rage.
                        When a young man was in doubt if he might present anything more compromising
                        than a bouquet to the temporary lady of his heart, he solved the difficulty
                        by walking into Bumpus's and despatching a copy of On the
                            Reefs. It is true that the book in itself was almost as much a
                        declaration of passion as a diamond chain would have been, but that, no
                        doubt, added to its vogue. When Jimmie Chorley had felt uncommonly
                        sentimental, one day after a pensive, wet afternoon with Lady Purfleet. he,
                        on the recommendation of a man at the club who was understood to read books,
                        had sent the languorous volume to Curzon
                        Street. And Lady Purfleet had at once declared herself of the cult of Adrian
                        Venn.
                    It was Bibi, to be sure, who first annexed this minor celebrity. At no more
                        romantic a place than a modish restaurant did Lady Purfleet and her admirer
                        first meet.
                    It was a dismal enough November day outside, but Prince's was crowded with
                        pretty women in wide-opened ermine collars, and with gardenias thrust in
                        their toques. Bibi, who had insisted on being taken out to lunch, was
                        chaperoning her mother and two adoring young gentlemen at a small table; but
                        the child, who had her own ideas of how she should amuse herself, presently
                        got up and wandered round to where Mrs. Levada, an old favourite of hers,
                        was entertaining a little party of five men and one woman.
                    Bibi, at ease as usual, took the chair proffered her by the most
                        distinguished-looking person of the party, and at once entered into
                        conversation.
                    ‘My name's Bibi,’ she announced; ‘wot's yours?’
                    ‘Adrian Venn,’ said the stranger, smiling amiably on this queer baby with the
                        Venetian curls and the brown saucer-eyes.
                    
                    ‘Gi' me a bit of your pear!’ she demanded, stretching out a fat hand. ‘Oh,
                        tha-anks! That's my muvver, over there. Isn't she pretty?—the one by the
                        window.’
                    Sir Adrian Venn looked across the room with the eyes of a connoisseur.
                    ‘I congratulate you on your choice of a parent,’ he said, with much
                        gravity.
                    ‘Oh! you are funny,’ declared Bibi, screwing up her shoulders.
                        ‘Well, I like father best. He's at the war, you know. Those are
                        stupid boys lunching with us. That's the Duke of Rochdale, that funny little
                        pink man. I like Jimmie Chorley best. So does muvver. He sends me lots of
                        sweets.’
                    ‘There seems to be some competition,’ murmured Venin to his hostess. ‘And I
                        don't wonder.... Would it be possible to be presented to this beautiful
                        lady?’
                    ‘Why, my dear man, she's probably dying to know you,’ declared Mrs. Levada.
                        ‘She adores your book. Come over with me now. Bibi, you are the only
                        unaffected person left in London. Be careful, above all things, never to
                        become conventional. But, in the meantime, I can see by the expression in
                        your mother's eye that you are shortly
                        destined to the chaste seclusion of the nursery.’
                    And so, with Bibi hanging amicably on his arm, the author of On the
                            Reefs was piloted across and introduced to Lady Purfleet.
                    Generally somewhat stolid and expressionless, Venetia exhibited the unusual
                        spectacle of a pretty flush of excitement when Venn's name was mentioned to
                        her. His eyes never left her face. Only a few words seemed to pass, but
                        before they said good-bye he had been asked to Curzon Street. He called the
                        next day, and after that, as Mrs. Levada declared, you could not go to the
                        house without treading on the distinguished young Governor of the Semilina
                        Islands.
                
                
                    III
                    IT looked, at the first blush, as if Curzon Street was to prove as
                        perilous an experience for the Governor as his palm-bedecked rock in the
                        Pacific. For, unlike every one else in London, he and Lady Purfleet took
                        each other quite seriously. Venn soon seemed to have some curious influence
                        over Lady Purfleet. Women, it is true,
                        were easily taken in by him, and he had at his fingers' ends all the
                        resources of the literary poseur.
                        Accustomed to the limited vocabulary of the smart young men in London,
                        Venetia was carried away by his grave eloquence; his rather deliberate
                        manner, his searched-for phrases, impressed her strangely. And to a man who
                        had spent ten years on an island in the Pacific, it was not to be wondered
                        at that Lady Purfleet—exquisitely modern, with her superficial air of
                        intelligence and the atmosphere of high fashion which she carried always
                        with her—as an astral body is said to surround a physical one—it was small
                        wonder that this beautiful woman carried him off his feet.
                    And so one day in early December the inevitable crisis came.
                    Up to now Lady Purfleet had had no difficulty in keeping her admirer well in
                        hand, but time was passing, the day loomed out when His Excellency would
                        have to go back to his Islands. Dark, fatal, melancholy, Sir Adrian leant
                        with his arm on the mantelpiece in Lady Purfleet's boudoir and gazed
                        steadily at her. His passion, at any rate, had grown to be something real,
                            and the woman whom he held with his
                        eyes suddenly realised this at last.
                    She moved uneasily in her low chair. It was strange, she thought, how this
                        man had always imposed himself upon her, and how much more difficult he was
                        to ‘manage’ than any of her younger admirers. Jimmie, Lord Parkhurst, the
                        Duke of Rochdale, it is true, were all men under twenty-eight, and it is
                        only under eight and after twenty-eight that the male creature is generally
                        unmanageable....
                    Venn knew when to be silent, and he chose to be silent at this crisis. His
                        eyes turned moodily on to the fire. There was a long pause, during which
                        there was no sound but a cinder dropping on the hearth and the patter of
                        rain outside.
                    Ever since they had come up from lunch he had been urging her to fix a day
                        when she would come and have tea at his rooms. A small collection of
                        water-colours, which he had himself painted, of the islands, and a chapter
                        of his new book, which he was to read to her, formed the excuse. It would be
                        so sweet, he urged, to see her in his own home....
                    And gradually his will, his intense desire,
                        seemed to impose itself upon her. As women do, she deceived herself, trifled
                        with the truth.... What harm would there be, after all? It would just be to
                        go to his rooms.... How she would love to see all his pretty things, to
                        realise the surroundings in which he lived—and wrote. At last she spoke:
                    ‘If I looked in to-morrow, about four,’ she said softly, ’would you be
                        in?’
                    Sir Adrian flushed up. Then he bent over her hand and kissed her on the
                        wrist. ‘I shall not go out,’ he murmured. ‘I can send to Covent Garden and
                        fill the place with flowers. It will be exquisite to sit and dream about you
                        all the day.’
                    But the gods had decreed—perhaps in the interests of English literature—that
                        the amatory experiences of Sir Adrian Venn should never be those of commoner
                        and less sensitive souls.... This day, indeed, was destined to be a day of
                        many emotions....
                    The pregnant silence which followed was broken by the raucous voice of a
                        newsboy shouting the war news up and down the dusky, quiet street. They
                        could hear the front door opened and closed, eager talk, the children
                        chattering and tramping on the stairs.
                    
                    ‘The evening paper, my lady,’ said the butler, advancing respectfully with
                        something pink on a silver tray. ‘Wonderful news about his lordship, my
                        lady.’
                    As Lady Purfleet came forward and took the newspaper, sounds of whooping were
                        heard on the stairs, and the martial tramping of little feet. Then the door
                        was flung open, and Jack and Bibi, draped in Union Jacks, and blowing tin
                        trumpets, marched in. The boy was waving a sixpenny sword, and Bibi was
                        suffocating with suppressed excitement.
                    ‘Oh, muvver!’ panted the child, flinging her fat arms round Lady Purfleet's
                        neck, ‘it says—father's a—a—hero!’
                    Venetia had grown quite white, and she stumbled a little as she rushed to the
                        window, newspaper in hand. It was a brief telegram from Lord Roberts,
                        announcing a brilliant little feat of arms of the Imperial Yeomanry. Quite
                        an insignificant band of them had held a small town against the raiding
                        Boers at immense odds. Lord Purfleet, who was in command, had ridden out
                        with a dozen men and captured a pom-pom on an adjacent kopje. He had held
                        the town for four days until reinforcements had arrived. All South Africa
                        was ringing with the plucky and brilliant
                        feat. Unfortunately, Purfleet, riding back from his captured kopje, had been
                        wounded in the arm by an explosive bullet.
                    His wife dropped the paper. She felt sick and faint. Her eyes dropped to the
                        hand which Adrian Venn had held, to the wrist which he had dared to
                        caress....
                    ‘All right, mother!’ said the voice of Jack, which sounded far away; ‘don't
                        faint, dear. Father's all right; it's only his arm, don't you
                        see, dearest.’
                    ‘Oh, I do love father so, more'n ever now he's a hero!’ sighed
                        Bibi, who had the true feminine worship of success.
                    Sir Adrian stood there, at a loss what to say, what face to put upon this
                        untoward situation.... What, after all, would this exquisite creature do?
                        What would be her decision? He could hardly leave the house suddenly at this
                        crisis which was half joyful, half harrowing for Lord Purfleet's wife, who,
                        with all her faults, had the aristocrat's pride in the prowess of her
                        masculine belongings. Though she did not speak to or look at him, Sir Adrian
                        felt instinctively that everything had altered between them. Was it to be
                        temporary, or for good?
                    
                    A carriage stopped at the door, and in a minute Mrs. Levada was shown in.
                    ‘It's too wonderful!’ exclaimed the lady; ‘I always thought Purfleet would do
                        something plucky. And the poor dear is wounded! Of course you'll go to him,
                        Venetia?’
                    ‘Go—to him?’ repeated Lady Purfleet, who had sunk down into an arm-chair.
                    ‘My dear, everybody's been out, at least to Cape Town, who's had their
                        husband or son wounded. It's been a perfect procession of women. Of course
                        you'll catch the next steamer,’ said Mrs. Levada decisively, her glance
                        taking in the reproachful, worn face of Venn. A woman realises these
                        dangerous situations instinctively. She made up her mind to urge Lady
                        Purfleet to catch the Wednesday steamer.
                    ‘Yes, I shall go,’ said Venetia. ‘To-morrow, did you say? I suppose I can
                        catch the mail at Plymouth.... Would you mind, Sir Adrian, helping me with
                        Bradshaw?’
                    To this day Adrian Venn wonders how even the most beautiful and
                        sensitive-looking women can manage to be so brutal....
                    In a few minutes all the turmoil, the
                        change, the shifting skies of a long journey were already parting them.
                        Vague grey spaces, tossing waves, and infinite stretches of ocean seemed to
                        be between them.... The lovely little room in which they sat, warm, scented,
                        pale with exquisite brocades and glinting with gilded furniture, was only a
                        temporary spot where he, Adrian Venn, was poring over the railway time-table
                        to find a train which would part him for ever from this beloved woman.... He
                        could already hear the shrill whistle of the express which would take her
                        westwards; in imagin-ation he could see the great three-funnelled steamer
                        belching out smoke as it swept down Channel towards the far South....
                    ‘There is a train at 3.55 to-morrow, Lady Purfleet,’ he said
                        significantly.
                    For an instant their eyes met.
                    ‘That will do. I daresay my maid will get me ready in time,’ she murmured,
                        dropping her eyes under his insistent gaze.
                    ‘At 3.55, then. Will you permit me to be at the station?’ he said
                        deferentially, as he took his hat.
                    ‘The whole of my family will probably be there,’ she answered, with an
                        attempt at a smile; ‘all sorts of cousins and aunts. We're terribly devoted—on occasions like this.
                        I'm afraid I must say good-bye. And you won't be here when I—when we get
                        home?’
                    ‘I shall be in the Pacific.’
                    ‘Then-good-bye.’
                    He filled his eyes with her before he turned to go, trying to etch her
                        likeness definitely on his brain.... It would have to suffice for so long,
                        that last look. It was all that he was to have to carry into exile—into
                        exile at the other side of the world.
                
            
            
            
                ‘THE WORLD'S SLOW STAIN’
                
                    I
                    ‘I'M going to marry a man who jilted me ten years ago.’
                    She stood up, facing him, instinctively taking the attitude in which she had
                        been told, often enough, that she looked best. A woman of thirty—perhaps
                        over—who was vaguely supposed to be twenty-six, Adela Buller was getting a
                        little hard-looking now, but she wore her clothes with an air. She had on a
                        simple, well-made dress, but the effect was spoiled by the quantity of rings
                        which covered her fingers; rings with little hearts depending from them,
                        rings with mysterious inscriptions, and rings of strange design.
                    Gilbert Vincent gazed at the two little plump hands resting on the empty
                        chair facing him, and smiled a dubious smile. He had a fat, white face,
                        which expressed nothing in repose. When he
                        smiled, people had a brief vision of unclean things.
                    ‘It's a subtle form of revenge,’ he said, after a constrained pause. ‘Though
                        I didn't know you wanted to marry.’
                    ‘Well, I do.’
                    ‘Why? I thought you had come to the conclusion that it was much more
                        agreeable not to be tied; to let us all adore you. For you know we are
                            all devoted...’ said Vincent, in the soft, half-amused voice in
                        which, in his capacity of successful dramatist, he was permitted to make the
                        most outrageous statements. ‘I am sure,’ he went on, with a curiously
                        un-English movement of his small white hands, ‘if I were a woman, nowadays,
                        I should think so.’
                    ‘Yes, you're all devoted enough,' admitted Adela, with candour. She never
                        took the trouble to be anything but candid with Gilbert Vincent. She had
                        known him too long. ‘But, all the same, one doesn't care to afficher oneself too much.’
                    ‘Oh, as for that, who cares much about anything? You don't mean to tell me
                        you're going to turn prudish?’
                    ‘I was a nice girl once. It's a hundred years ago; but I was really!’
                    
                    ‘Were you ever “nice”?’ said Vincent. ‘A nice girl like one reads of in
                        books? I can't believe you ever belonged to that variety of the British
                        bore.’
                    Adela laughed a rather unpleasant laugh. ‘No, I don't think I was ever a
                        bore,’ she said, crossing to the mantelpiece and taking up a Japanese ivory,
                        which she twisted about and examined on all sides as she spoke. ‘But I was a
                        good girl, with deep feelings, and ideals, and all that sort of thing....
                        I—I imagined that men were ... decent, you know, and that the women who were
                        treated unfairly were the exceptions, and that it was their own fault,
                        generally, if they were. I did not know that women were stuffed with idiotic
                        theories from their very childhood, and that all my life I should suffer,
                        suffer, suffer, for what I had been taught then. We are not told,’ she went
                        on with rising excitement, ‘what life is, what it all means, or how to play
                        the game. We are like children to whom a pack of cards is thrown, and who
                        are set down to play a strange game with men who are confirmed gamblers. The
                        rules are never told us, so that we blunder helplessly along, and unless we
                        cheat 
                            out-
                            outrageously
                         rageously, or mark the cards,
                        there's small chance of our winning. And what's so funny is, that most
                        “good” men like us to be like that, ignorant, silly, helpless—even cheats.
                        They think it pretty.’
                    ‘I believe you're right,’ said Vincent, with languid surprise. This was a new
                        phase of Adela Buller, of whom he always had vague visions, in which he saw
                        her forming one of quartette suppers at the Carlton, of hearing of her
                        ‘running over to Paris’ (she had been especially fond, of late years, of
                        that particular form of dissipation so dear to the Londoner), of seeing her,
                        in an exaggerated 1840 gown which slipped off her white shoulders, reciting
                        suggestive little poems in French to a small audience of young men.
                    He got up, and, leaning one elbow on the mantelpiece, watched her with a new
                        curiosity. Her eyes were strangely bright—had she been putting belladonna
                        into them again, he wondered? He could see the pulse in her wrist beating
                        furiously against the dark blue vein.... Vincent hoped devoutly she was not
                        going to have a crise de nerfs. What
                        excellent ‘copy’ she would make; what a capital type she would be on the stage; the young lady who
                        is for ever hovering on the brink, but who has ‘kept straight’ all the same.
                        Really, he must make an exhaustive study of Adela.
                    ‘Poor little girl!’ he said softly, watching her as she tried to balance the
                        fat Japanese divinity on his head. ‘And so you're going to take your revenge
                        by marrying him. Well, it's not a bad way, either. Who was the fool the
                        other night at the club who was saying that your modern woman wasn't complex
                        at all—only hysterical? By Jove, and who's the lucky beggar?’
                    ‘Anthony Mellingham. He wrote from Mexico. I haven't seen him, you know, for
                        seven or eight years. He's made some money, I believe, and apparently he's
                        got remorse! It seems curious now, how I loved that man—ten years ago.’
                    ‘Then all's for the best in the best of all possible worlds,’ said Vincent,
                        with his dubious smile. ‘When are you going to see him? To-night?’
                    ‘Oh no, to-morrow morning. I look so worn at night.... But in a cotton frock,
                        in the morning, with my hair done rather
                        neatly.... That's how they like to come back and find a woman, don't they?’
                        said Adela, with the drawl which had become habitual to her. There was a
                        world of weariness, of disillusionment in her tone.
                    ‘Well, he's a lucky man,’ repeated Gilbert, taking her dimpled hand and
                        giving it a lengthened pressure.
                    ‘Don't do that—it bores me.’
                    ‘What am I to give you for a wedding present? Another ring?’
                    ‘Oh, anything. No, not a ring. I—I—hate them. I'm never going to wear rings
                        any more.
                    ‘Except the fatal one,’ said Vincent, retreating. ‘By the bye,’ he asked,
                        exhibiting his curious smile on the first step of the staircase, turning
                        back as he did so to take in every detail of the pretty woman he was
                        leaving, ‘what's he like?’
                    ‘Fairish; rather good-looking, rather stupid.’
                    ‘Oh, then it's the fellow you did in that novel you wrote?’
                    ‘What, that idiotic thing? Oh, I don't know! I've forgotten all about it,’
                        said Adela peevishly. ‘I only wrote the thing because I was—miserable. And
                            nobody would have bought it, only it
                        was a one-and-sixpenny book printed the wrong way up.’
                    ‘It had a success,’ said the dramatist, in the strictly indifferent tone of
                        one artist to another.
                    ‘Have I ever had a success?’ said Adela wearily.’
                    ‘Curious girl, but only one of a new species,’ said Vincent to himself as he
                        made his way down the Kensington street. ‘She's all right, I daresay, but
                        she wouldn't like us to think so.... She calls it “dull” of a woman not to
                        have had emotional experiences, and wouldn't thank you if you altered your
                        conversation to spare her blushes.... Yet she can be very sweet, very
                        attractive; and she is curiously feminine—for a modern type. She knows
                        enough to be très femme when she wants to
                        be really charming. And, by Jove, she can be charming! It's
                        extraordinary how fond one can be of her—at times, and in certain moods....
                        I wonder,’ he asked himself, as he stopped to light a cigar, ‘if it is
                        possible I shall feel it if Adela really were to marry?’
                
                
                    
                    II
                    ADELA BULLER sat waiting for her lover. Every now and then she got
                        up, fidgeting about, now to throw into a drawer some audacious French novel
                        which challenged the eye with its yellow cover, now to put into the
                        background the signed photograph of a famous comedian, again to slightly
                        lower the blind which let in the glaring July sunshine, and then to give one
                        final look into the glass.
                    Adela had an artistic sense of the eternal fitness of things. She looked her
                        part to perfection. Her face had undergone careful massage at the hands of
                        her maid, so that, for the moment, the cheeks had regained something of the
                        roundness, the freshness of youth, and she had insisted on Sarah brushing
                        out the artificial waves of her hair. The lilac cotton gown showed, without
                        insisting on, the plump lines of her figure; her pretty hands were
                        absolutely bare.
                    ‘Mr. Mellingham,’ said the servant, and Anthony entered, revealing himself,
                        after these ten years, as a not ill-looking man of thirty-six, burnt almost to bronze colour, so
                        that he made a somewhat incongruous appearance in his brand-new London
                        clothes. For the rest, his blue eyes were placed slightly too close
                        together, and there was a curious mixture of sensuality and caution in his
                        face. The latter quality had become accentuated in the course of eight
                        years' knocking about in Mexico. Both tendencies had always existed deep
                        down in his nature, and had accounted for the everyday tragedy of his having
                        loved Adela, and yet having ridden away.
                    He stepped forward, glancing tentatively round the room.
                    ‘Adela!’ he said, putting his arms round her, and turning her face upwards so
                        that their lips could meet.
                    Heavens! How horrible it was, she thought.... He had so completely passed out
                        of her life during the last eight years, that this embrace seemed well-nigh
                        as outrageous as that of a stranger. As he kissed her, she remembered the
                        caresses, the passionate words of other men.... How many—how many had there
                        been since they had seen each other? It could never be the same again; she
                        was not the same woman; Time had
                        besmirched her, year by year, with his horrible, corroding finger. Ah, if
                        she could only have died then—when Tony went away.
                    ‘Why, you're looking as young and pretty as when I left,’ he declared, his
                        spirits rising. ‘Hanged if I don't think you're better-looking. And you have
                        cared about me a little bit all this time, Adela?’ he went on anxiously.
                        ‘You haven't let any of those other fellows snap you up?’
                    ‘Marry me, do you mean?’
                    ‘Why, of course.’
                    ‘N—no. I must have been a young person of exemplary fidelity,’ she said,
                        smiling. ‘For no one, as far as I remember, has even wanted to marry
                        me.’
                    ‘Oh, that's all rot—a pretty girl like you, too. But you were always so
                        horribly proud. How jolly it is in London, with the Park, and the theatres,
                        and all that sort of thing. I say, we'll have some fun together, won't we?
                        And then, at the end of the month, we'll get turned off in proper style, and
                        then we can go to Scotland. Hang it, Adela, I've waited long enough.’
                    They looked at each other, and the ludicrousness of his phrase made them
                            both laugh. Anthony Mellingham felt
                        more comfortable. Adela had been looking so serious—although uncommonly
                        pretty—ever since he had arrived. He had marvelled how little she had
                        changed. Well, girls weren't like men; they hadn't got to rough it, they
                        didn't lead the lives that men did.... Nowadays, girls, when they were
                        hipped or disappointed, took up bridge or started a hat-shop. He won-dered
                        if Adela had started a hat-shop?
                    Well, bygones must be bygones; he had come back now, having made enough out
                        there to live comfortably at home. What he wanted, he told himself, was a
                        nice little place in Dorsetshire or Sussex, where he could get a bit of
                        hunting in the winter, and of which Adela, who was always a handy girl, with
                        lots of notions about things, could do the honours to the few friends he
                        still possessed in England. If he had behaved badly all those years ago, he
                        was sorry for it, especially as his eye dwelt agreeably on the rounded lines
                        of Adela's figure, on her soft blonde hair, and her little bare plump hands.
                        By Jove! she was just the nice-looking, amiable, simple-minded little woman
                        he wanted. There had been a girl on the steamer, coming home, who had
                            reminded him immensely of Adela. She
                        might have been ten years younger, but there was no essential difference. He
                        and she, he remembered with a smile, had had an uncommonly good time
                        together.
                    Before Anthony left, which was not till after luncheon, they had made half a
                        hundred projects; but what struck Adela as the strangest, most unlikely
                        project of all, was that the wedding was to take place at the end of the
                        month.
                
                
                    III
                    ALL the rooms in the little house in Kensington were filled to
                        overflowing. It had been an early wedding, and the young couple were to
                        catch the two o'clock train to Edinburgh. The rooms were stifling, and
                        through the open door of the microscopic dining-room came a potent mingling
                        of odours, comprising, among others, those of hothouse flowers, of
                        champagne, of anchovy sandwiches, and of heated humanity, together with a
                        brief vision of black coats struggling round a buffet, the rest of the room
                            being filled with the pale, clear
                        tones of women's summer dresses. Viewed from above, the headgear of the
                        ladies resembled a flower-bed in full bloom. The drawing-room was chiefly
                        filled with aunts and cousins of the bride (for Anthony Mellingham had no
                        relations, and he had so far lost sight of his old friends that Gilbert
                        Vincent had been, somewhat unwillingly, forced to officiate as best
                        man)—aunts and cousins who surged tearfully round that self-possessed young
                        lady, pressing damp kisses on a cheek which had been touched ever so
                        slightly with powder. The bridegroom was downstairs drinking champagne with
                        all and sundry, in radiant spirits, and wearing already the checked suit in
                        which he was to travel. Adela's little boudoir was too high up to be made
                        use of in the scurry of a wedding, and so the copper lamps, the
                        silver-plated bacon-dishes, and the etchings after Leader, which always loom
                        so largely in marriage offerings, were set out in the little room at the end
                        of the hall passage.
                    Gilbert Vincent, his face pale with a pallor which was uncanny-looking, paced
                        the little room upstairs in which he had spent so many hours of his life. He
                        had often enough waited there for Adela,
                        for she was of the order of unpunctual women, and he was waiting for her
                        now.
                    Though he had professed himself amused, even delighted, with Miss Buller's
                        prospective husband during the many theatre and river parties which had been
                        got up during the last month, he felt curiously injured to-day, when she was
                        at last separated from him for good.... Indeed, Vincent hardly realised it
                        now. How could Adela Buller do anything so trite as to turn British matron?
                        The thing was preposterous—it was worse, it was inartistic. He had been
                        accustomed to drop in when he liked and read her scenes from his new plays
                        (he was a man who was curiously dependent on feminine sympathy), even to
                        make love to her when he felt so inclined, and here was Adela the legal
                        property of a blundering, idiotic British Philistine, who stared when he
                        propounded one of his elaborate aphorisms. Well, anyhow, she had promised to
                        see him for a few moments alone, on her way upstairs to put on her
                        travelling-dress. Deuce take her, why didn't she come? In a minute, he must
                        jump into a hansom and drive to Euston,
                        where he was to see to the tickets and procure for the bridal pair a
                        carriage to themselves.
                    There was the rustling of a silk train, and Adela was in the room.
                    ‘It is good of you. I—I wanted to see you, before you went,
                        Adela,’ he murmured, detaining her with both hands.
                    ‘Well, what is it?’
                    ‘I daresay it's ridiculous, but I feel quite sentimental.’
                    ‘You sentimental! O Heavens!’ She brushed past him to the
                        looking-glass, where she began to fumble with the diamond pin which fastened
                        her bridal veil.
                    ‘It is ridiculous,’ admitted Vincent, with a wave of his white
                        hands, ‘but these things occur. You're—you're not going to throw me over
                        altogether?’ he went on, surprised, himself, at the agitation in his voice.
                        ‘You won't give me up?’
                    ‘Give you up?’—with a shrug. ‘How do you mean? We have been friends—nothing
                        more.’
                    ‘Friends!’ said the man. She resented his sneer.
                    ‘Listen, once for all, Gilbert. You and I say good-bye to-day for good. I'm
                            not going to see you, I'm not going to
                        see any of the set I've been in for the last few years. I hate, I loathe the
                        whole worldly lot.... For Heaven's sake, give me a chance.... I—I—oh, don't
                        speak to me any more as long as I live.’
                    He had a vision of her disappearing up the narrow little staircase, a foam of
                        white tulle and shimmering satin. Then he looked round the room. Presently
                        he smiled his singularly unpleasant smile. What had he agitated himself
                        about this particular woman for?... All that she had said to him just now
                        meant nothing—except exasperated nerves.... She was essentially a comedian,
                        and she evidently thought it part of her rôle as bride to talk in such a fashion on her wedding
                        day.... Sooner or later, she would come back to him; he would sit in her
                        boudoir, read her a scene from his new play, make love to her when he felt
                        inclined.... But the husband? Well, he had better know at once that he
                        hadn't married a Philistine, that he would never be able to turn Adela,
                        after all these years, into the conventional British wife. Why, she was not
                        only clever, she was something of an artist. There was that bitter little story of hers which he had helped her to
                        write, in which she had hit off Mellingham to the life; now that he knew
                        Anthony, he saw how merciless the character-drawing was. And of course, like
                        all amateurs, and most women-novelists, she had drawn on her own
                        experience.... Vincent smiled as he remembered how well some of those love
                        scenes, the ‘riding away’ of the lover, and the subsequent career of the
                        heroine had been done.... His eye fell on a row of narrow booklets. A
                            Man of Pleasure, by Andrew Burn; there it was. It struck him
                        suddenly, what a dramatic effect you could get by making a young husband
                        read his bride's version of his life.... If Vincent could only be there to
                        see! Well, the sooner Mr. Anthony Mellingham knew, the better. He slipped
                        the thin little calico-covered novelette into his pocket, and, running
                        downstairs, made his way to Euston.
                    
                    The Scotch express flew northwards, bearing the married pair in a carriage by
                        themselves. The blue cushions were littered with yellow leather bags,
                            with newspapers, with tea-baskets,
                        while, carefully wrapped in a Scotch plaid, Adela lay dozing with her back
                        to Anthony. He took out his watch. Not ten o'clock yet; it would be a whole
                        hour before they arrived in Edinburgh. No wonder Adela was tired out, he
                        thought; there was that idiotic fussation of the morning—all the excitement,
                        and all those people staring at her. And Adela, as he remembered, had always
                        been rather a shy, modest little woman.... Knowing she didn't mind smoke, he
                        lit a cigarette, and, leaning back on the cushions, congratulated himself on
                        his having ‘done the right thing’ by her, after all.... Perhaps she had
                        taken him a bit too seriously, all those years ago; at any rate, it was
                        hardly his fault that he had been obliged to leave England. Adela hadn't a
                        penny of her own, and he possessed, at the time of their love affair,
                        exactly three hundred a year.... Well, it had all come right now. He thought
                        of his banking account with complacence, and determined that there was
                        literally nothing on earth to prevent their being as jolly a couple as he
                        knew of.
                    There was a yawning yellow bag in front of
                        him, containing silver flasks, even-ing newspapers, and novels. He dipped
                        his hand in, and drew one out. A small, narrow volume, bound in calico,
                        printed, according to the fashion of a few years ago, in a sort of column.
                            A Man of Pleasure, by Andrew Burn. Who was the author? He
                        had never heard of him. Oh, by Jove, this was the book that Vincent had
                        slipped into his bag at the station, telling him it was A1. Well, Vincent
                        was a dramatist, or a literary chap of sorts, and he ought to know.
                    Anthony Mellingham opened the book and began to read. The train rattled
                        northwards, shaking the occupants of the carriage from side to side like
                        inanimate objects. Adela did not move. The yellow lamplight fell straight on
                        to Mellingham's curly yellow hair. Any one who had been watching him as he
                        read on and on would have seen, first a perceptible creasing up of the line
                        between his brows; then that his face had deepened into a copper colour
                        through the bronze; finally, that his mouth seemed to have transformed
                        itself into an ugly slit. He wore no moustache, so that the expression of
                        the lips was plainly visible. The happy
                        bridegroom seemed to have aged ten years in that hour.
                    The monotonous thud and whirl of the flying train made a strange
                        accompaniment to his reading. No one, he saw at a glance, could have written
                        the book but the sleeping woman opposite him. His very words had been
                        repeated, and there was even a love scene—the one in which they had said
                        farewell—which she had described with curious fidelity: yes, there was the
                        boat-house at Wargrave, filled with cool, green twilight, the flopping of
                        the river against the boats, the rain which fell in a white sheet outside.
                        And he, Anthony Mellingham, the ‘Man of Pleasure’ of the book, had been
                        carefully painted as an insufferable cad and egoist.
                    And she had married him.
                    The express stopped with a jerk on the outskirts of Edinburgh. Adela sat up,
                        startled. Opposite her was her husband, with his changed face. The book fell
                        from his hand. In an instant she had guessed the whole odious situation. Her
                        face grew haggard, the deep circles which fatigue had scooped round her eyes
                        were accentuated by the vertical rays from the carriage lamp. There was something faded yet hard, weary
                        yet worldly, in the whole woman's personality.
                    Husband and wife gazed steadily at each other without a word. No word was
                        needed, for in that look there passed, like a sword-thrust, the vision of an
                        eternal rancour.
                    ‘I suppose we shall be able to get something decent to eat?’ said the bride,
                        pretending to yawn.
                    He turned his eyes away as he answered: ‘I believe Vincent telegraphed to the
                        Palace about supper.’
                
            
            
                
                ‘THE SWEET O' THE YEAR’
                INDOORS, in the austere northern light of the studio, one hardly
                    realised that the trees on the boulevard were all a-flutter in their pale green
                    garments; that outside, all over Paris, the amazing fairy-tale of spring was
                    being told. The only vernal sound which the painter could hear as he worked was
                    the monotonous cooing of a pair of ringdoves, whose cage hung at the end of the
                    passage, at an open door which gave on a strip of sun-flooded court.
                    Intermittently he could hear, too, the shuffling of a pair of feet—feet which
                    pottered about in the aimless way of the old and tired. The familiar sound
                    brought up a vision of Virginie, the woman who swept out the studio, kept the
                    models from the door, and made him an excellent tisane when he was out of sorts. Yes, Virginie certainly had her
                    uses, although she was old, and shrivelled, and unsightly. The young man hummed
                    a love-song of Chaminade's as he stepped away
                    from his picture, screwing up his eyes the better to judge of the values. Poor,
                    bent old Virginie, with the failing memory, the parchment skin, and the formless
                    lips! He was sorry for women, especially for old women. Being a Frenchman, he
                    had an innately tender regard for the sex.
                ‘The world is made for men,’ he said to himself; ‘tiens, I am glad I was born a man.’
                And all the while Virginie, busy among her pots and pans at the end of the
                    passage, was thinking about her master. She was proud of his talent, of his
                    success, above all, of his youth and good looks. She rejoiced that, although M.
                    Georges was barely thirty, he was already hors
                        concours at the Salon, that he could afford so big a studio. The
                    young men made more money nowadays.... Why, it was a finer atelier than
                        he used to have—the greatest painter of his day in France, the
                    famous Victor Gérault.
                The stove had not yet been lighted, and, in spite of the sunshine outside, it was
                    chilly in the kitchen, where Virginie was scouring the pans. At seventy-five,
                    after a lifetime of anxiety and of toil, of rising at the dawn, of scrubbing, cleaning, cooking, washing—at
                    seventy-five one has no longer much warmth in one's veins. And then the tepid
                    spring sunshine only made her feel dizzy; she had a cough which troubled her,
                    and queer pains in her bones.... ‘Maybe,’ she nodded to herself, ‘that it is not
                    for long that I am here. Poor M. Georges!’
                An imperious ring at the outer bell made her hurry to the door. Her face fell as
                    she encountered a fantastic hat loaded with lilac, a pair of handsome eyes, and
                    a triumphant smile. She began to grumble.
                ‘M. Georges was at home, yes. But he was busy. He was hard at work on a picture.
                    The background of a portrait which must be finished this week. Could not
                    mademoiselle call again?’
                ‘Ah, but he will see me,’ declared the Lilac Hat, pushing by, and leaving a
                    pungent odour of chypre behind her as she passed, with her rustling silk linings
                    and her over-powering air of femininity. Virginie shuffled after her to the
                    studio door.
                ‘Mlle. Rose,’ she announced.
                The young man threw down his palette and brushes, and turned, his face
                    alight.
                As Virginie went back alone down the narrow
                    passage, there was a moment's silence in the atelier, broken, at last, by the
                    murmur of soft, happy voices.
                ‘Tas de saletés,’ grumbled Virginie, ‘she'll
                    not let him do any more work to-day.’ A strange spasm of jealousy seized her.
                    The little incident—though she had witnessed it once or twice before—seemed to
                    accentuate to-day her own senility, her failing powers, her rapid detachment
                    from life. It reminded her, too, of things that had occurred half a century
                    ago.... Suddenly the old woman felt a lump in her throat, a curious, choking
                    sensation. She stepped to the window and pushed it open.
                Outside a light easterly wind was shaking an almond-tree in full blossom, making
                    a fluttering pink cloud against the clear April sky. The ringdoves in their
                    wicker cage were cooing in an amorous ecstasy....
                Presently, with her heavy step, she turned into the cupboard which served her for
                    a bedroom. In one corner stood a locked box, dusty with disuse, at which she
                    fumbled nervously with a rusty key. Then, with palsied, trembling fingers, she
                    drew out a yellowish packet of letters, tied with a ribbon which had once,
                    possibly, been rose-coloured.
                
                The door of the studio was flung open, and the swish of silken petticoats and a
                    girl's high-pitched laugh announced that Mlle. Rose was taking her departure....
                    It seemed to Virginie's listening ears as if M. Georges, on this radiant spring
                    afternoon, could not bear to let her go. ‘Dearest,’ she could hear him urging,
                    ‘won't you dine with me to-night? Say you will! Voisin's at seven, and
                    afterwards we'll drive in the Bois. See, it's going to be an exquisite evening!
                    You must send a telegram to the theatre to say you are ill and cannot
                    dance.’
                ‘Yes, yes,’ answered the childish voice. ‘To say that I am ill. It will be
                    delicious! I shall put on my pink dress, and my little toque with the pink
                    roses. You can't imagine how charming it is, the little toque. And do you like
                    my hair done like a madonna or like a nymph?’ And Virginie, half blotted out
                    already in the twilight of her meagre bedroom, could hear the young man's
                    answer, and the delighted, bewildered tones of his voice: ‘Yes, parted, like a
                    madonna. You must wear pink roses, and pink shoes, and bring that great feather
                    fan—’
                
                ‘I'll have my hair waved!’ came the triumphant, satisfied answer. ‘Good-bye,
                    dearest. In an hour I'll be back. Don't forget me while I am away.’
                She heard him accompany the young girl to the cab which was waiting at the door,
                    and noted his light step as he strode back to the studio, humming a valse air as
                    he went. How restless M. Georges seemed this after-noon.... She could hear him
                    walking about the atelier, turning over this canvas and that, cleaning up an old
                    palette.
                When she came in with a load of wood, and knelt down, with difficulty, before the
                    fireplace, he had flung himself on to the sofa and had lit a cigarette.
                ‘I thought I had better make up the fire,’ said Virginie, on her knees at the
                    hearth. ‘I supposed that monsieur would make as much use of the light as he
                    could. But monsieur will probably not do any more work to-day?’
                ‘N—no,’ said Georges from the sofa. ‘Probably not.’
                ‘It's always the way; once a man is interrupted at his work, the day's gone. I've
                    seen enough of it in my time, I can tell you...’ grumbled Virginie, pulling down the iron screen over the fire with a
                    clatter.
                ‘Always the same old story, eh, Virginie?’ came a contented voice from the
                    sofa.
                ‘Always!’ muttered the old servant.
                ‘Lazy brutes, we artists, aren't we? Well, don't be hard on women.... Why,’ he
                    added, in a teasing voice, after a moment's pause, ‘I shouldn't wonder if
                        you were a pretty woman once?’
                She had risen, with difficulty, from the floor, and stood facing him, with
                    colourless eyes and gnarled hands.
                ‘A pretty woman!’ she muttered wistfully; and then, in a more defiant tone,
                    ‘Well, monsieur has often seen my portrait!’
                ‘Your portrait, ma pauvre vieille?’ said
                    Georges, with languid interest. He was choosing another cigarette as he spoke.
                    ‘And where have I seen this wonderful likeness?’
                ‘Why, in the Luxembourg Gallery, M. Georges. They say it will be in the Louvre in
                    a year. Ah, I did not always sweep studios and open doors. I was pretty once, M.
                    Georges! I was a model. He chose me for his “Psyche.”’
                ‘The “Psyche”!’ The picture which, it was
                    known, was to be hung in the Louvre as pendant to Ingres' ‘La Source’! Could it
                    be possible, and did not life contain such ironical tragedies as this?
                The Master had painted Virginie in that world-famous picture, and he, the
                    Master's youngest pupil, had let her drudge and toil in his kitchen, all
                    unwittingly, for years.... He sprang from the sofa, and laying his hands on her
                    shrunken shoulders, murmured reproachfully, ‘And you never told me all this
                    time?’
                ‘Ah, that is all more than fifty years ago now—more than fifty years. Dame! One forgets. My memory isn't what it was....
                    My head feels dizzy this weather, and I don't remember things as I used to....
                    Yes, yes, I was a very pretty girl, Monsieur Georges. At fifteen, down in
                    Auvergne, there was a miller's son who—’
                ‘Tell me about Victor Gérault,’ urged Georges quietly, leading her to the sofa.
                    The young man made her sit down, and then, with the filial courtesy of a
                    Frenchman, he knelt, smiling, before her.
                Agitated and pale, she passed her hand across her forehead. ‘Yes, yes, the
                    Master. Let me think; yes, he was always very fond of me, was M. Victor. He always said I was a very
                    pretty girl. It was my hands especially that he thought so beautiful,’ she
                    added, with a sudden tone of vanity.
                ‘Your hands, Virginie?’ said Georges gravely, taking her withered and knotted
                    fingers in his.
                ‘Ah, they are spoiled with hard work now, M. Georges. Ah, mon Dieu! When one is already seventy-five, and has had a life of
                    anxiety and of toil.... When one has risen at the dawn for fifty years, when one
                    has scrubbed and swept, and worked and washed, for half a century, why, look
                    you, it is impossible to have pretty hands, is it not, M. Georges?’
                ‘Ma pauvre vieille,’ said the young man
                    tenderly.
                ‘Everything passes and is forgotten,’ said Virginie, nodding her head, and
                    blinking a little at the bright firelight. The logs had caught now, and the
                    flames were leaping up the chimney. How good it was to sit on the sofa once
                    more, just like a lady, and have her dear M. Georges kneeling there, smiling,
                    with a question in his eyes. Presently she began fumbling in her pocket. ‘There
                    is something,’ she began nervously, ‘which I
                    should like you to have. You've always been so good to me, M. Georges.’
                ‘My poor Virginie! It's you who've always spoiled me; nursed me when I was
                    ill—looked after me like a mother.’
                Carefully drawing a packet of yellowish letters from her pocket, she handed them
                    to him with a shaking hand.
                ‘Yes, yes, I should like you to have them, to take care of them after I am dead.
                    Who is to keep them? And then you, too, are an artist. Who knows if, some day,
                    you may be as great as him?’
                ‘As great as whom?’ asked Georges, smiling indulgently as he took the discoloured
                    packet and untied the faded pink ribbon. They were dingy folded sheets of paper,
                    which had once been fastened by wafers, and which bore the dates of April and
                    May 1847. Running his eye across some of the yellow pages, covered with faded
                    ink, he glanced at the signature. ‘Why, they are priceless!’ he cried.
                    ‘Love-letters from Victor Gérault? Where, in Heaven's name, did you get them,
                    Virginie?’
                ‘But they are mine!’ she said eagerly. ‘Yes, yes, M. Victor wrote them to me. Ah, but I did not always sweep studios and
                    open doors.... I was pretty once, M. Georges. I was his model. He chose me for
                    his “Psyche.” M. Victor was very fond of me.... Dame! that is all more than fifty years ago now,’ she muttered,
                    stooping, with the patient humility of the poor, to pick up some of the yellow
                    sheets which had fallen to the ground.
                He knelt down, too, and helped to collect the letters.
                ‘But read them, M. Georges!’ A rosy flush of belated feminine pride had crept
                    over her shrunken cheeks. ‘He used to say the most beautiful things; hie used to
                    write the most lovely letters.... Tiens, you
                    think because I am only an old woman now—nothing but a wrinkled, ugly old
                    woman—that I have never been loved? You read what he used to say, and you will
                    see that I too—’
                The young man began to read aloud the letter he held in his hand. It was an
                    intimate revelation of the heart of him whom the younger generation called the
                    Master.
                
                    ‘PARIS, May 1, 1847.—I want to tell you again how your eyes haunt me, and how
                        I delight in your beauty....’
                
                
                She stood there timidly, as he read aloud, with her seamed face, and her little,
                    faded eyes fixed on her master. A white cap was tied beneath her shrivelled
                    chin; a loose camisole covered her shrunken chest; a meagre petticoat revealed
                    her bony ankles.
                
                    ‘Your beauty, which is so strangely complex, for it has not only a child's
                        sweetness, but a woman's seduction. Ay, you are indeed an exquisite
                        creature....’
                
                ‘Yes, yes. Indeed an exquisite creature!’ repeated Virginie. ‘That is just like
                    M. Victor.’
                He raised his eyes and looked at the familiar figure of Virginie.... All at once
                    the bent, unsightly form seemed invested with the sweetness, the purity, the
                    dignity of the young girl; round her head, with its sparse white hair, there
                    rested, for an instant, the aureole of the woman who is beloved.
                
                    ‘I was like a man asleep, and you, Virginie, have awakened me. Whether you
                        wish it or no, you will be for ever my inspiration, my dream, my
                        reward.’
                
                A feeble smile of satisfied vanity flickered over the old woman's face. She
                    nodded her head as he went on reading, her knotted hands twisted nervously together. Time, with his
                    corroding finger, had seared and branded her out of all semblance of a woman.
                    She represented nothing but the long, the inexorable degradation of life.
                
                    ‘Nothing will ever make me forget the unearthly beauty of your face, nor the
                        hours we have passed together.’
                
                The young man laid the letter down. His eyes had filled with tears; he could
                    hardly see the words.
                ‘And so the Master—loved you?’ he said gravely, with a touch of deference in his
                    voice. ‘Tell me about it, Virginie—’
                ‘Yes, I must try and recollect how it used to be, M. Georges.’ And then, after a
                    pause, she went on querulously, ‘I can't remember things as I used to, and it's
                    all such a long, long time ago.... But I can recollect the time when I first
                    stood for the “Psyche”! Ah, it was a shabby little studio he had, up at
                    Montmartre, for, look you, the young men didn't make so much money fifty years
                    ago; they hadn't such fine ateliers as this, I can tell you.... Nor dressed-up
                    young ladies like that (nodding at the door) coming in to see them.
                    No, no, M. Victor was poor. He had quarrelled with his family because he wished to be a painter.... All the
                    same, it was gay enough in that studio up at Montmartre! we used to have a dish
                    of macaroni, a bottle of thin red wine—but—we were happy!’
                ‘Happy with Victor Gérault,’ said the young man wonderingly. ‘That must have been
                    an experience indeed!’
                ‘Then came the day of his success at the Salon,’ went on the old woman, getting
                    animated and excited. ‘I tell you, there has never been anything like it. You
                    young men don't know. There are so many clever people nowadays.’
                ‘You mean so few people with genius!’ said Georges sadly.
                Like all the disciples of Gérault, he had heard the legend of the ‘Psyche.’ No
                    one could get near it at the Salon; there were crowds in front of it all day
                    long. People still read the critiques which Alfred de Musset and Théophile
                    Gautier had written, in contemporary journals, about this masterpiece, in which
                    there had been revived some of the sincerity, the fervour, and the inexpressible
                    grace of the Renaissance.... And the strange, the inexorable irony of life had
                    decreed that the model of the ‘Psyche,’
                    withered out of all semblance of a woman, should stand there before him, in the
                    meagre dress of the humble; worn out, at last, in his service; the scourer of
                    his kitchen, the meek servitor of his caprices.... And those shrunken arms and
                    throat, that attenuated body, had made the fame, perhaps the immortality, of a
                    great painter!
                How strange, he thought, that Gérault—that great, unhappy man—should have left
                    her to come to want. Yet the story was simple enough. On the day of his success
                    had come a reconciliation with his family, and with it the last of the young
                    people's happiness. With the strain and the excitement of his work and his
                    sudden success, the health of Gérault had broken down, and he had been hurried
                    away by his parents to their château in Touraine. Before he returned to Paris,
                    they had arranged a marriage for him—one on which his mother had set her heart.
                    Virginie had not disputed the arrangement. It was right, it was natural, she
                    said, that he should marry.... She had had all the curious humility, the
                    astounding courage of the poor. The girl had left Paris for a time, and had
                    refused to see him again.
                
                ‘But I have heard that he was never happy with his wife?’ said Georges, with a
                    movement of impatience.
                ‘It may be, I do not know,’ she answered simply. ‘I never saw him again. Tiens! when one is a woman, and one has been very,
                    very happy, and—and—it is all over—one has to learn to forget. I left Paris for
                    many years. Now and again I heard from him, but after a little while that
                    ceased. Life is like that.... It is hard for women. One is very happy, and then,
                        pouf! it is all over, and one must ask no questions! One must
                    not ask why.... And women live long, M. Georges. In spite of their sorrows, they
                    live long....’
                Emotional and easily moved, the young man gave way to a charming impulse. Bending
                    down, he took her fingers and demanded deferentially, ‘May I salute the hand,
                    madame, that the Master delighted to honour?’
                An impatient, agitated ring at the bell made them start. ‘Sit here,’ he said
                    kindly; ‘I will go.’
                In another instant there had burst into the room a radiant apparition in pink.
                    With her flower-crowned head, her tumultuous
                    silk skirts, and the great bunch of real roses thrust in her belt, the young
                    dancer seemed the very incarnation of wayward, alluring youth.
                ‘Do I look nice, dear?’ she demanded breathlessly, throwing off her coat.
                ‘Superb!’ said the young man, seizing her two wrists and devouring her with his
                    eyes.
                The two young people, absorbed in each other, had forgotten the presence of
                    Virginie.
                ‘Have I made myself beautiful enough?’ she asked, patting her hair. ‘You see, as
                    I passed the coiffeur's, I popped in my head
                    and said, “For Heaven's sake, be amiable, come and do my hair, Alphonse! It's an
                    affair of state—everything depends on it.” And he said, “Bien, mademoiselle, count upon me!” and he took up his
                    curling-tongs and flew after me. I told him I was going to dine with the most
                    adorable of his sex....’
                ‘Oh!’ answered Georges, with a movement of impatience.
                ‘And then, just as I was dressed,’ she chattered on, taking no notice, ‘in came
                    Marcel, with these roses. Lovely, aren't they? But I had to bundle him out. He's
                    always in the way when he isn't wanted. Came
                    to congratulate me on my success in the piece last night, talked a lot of
                    nonsense, and said you were hopelessly in love with me. As if I wanted Marcel to
                    tell me that! And, Georges dear,’ she went on, laughing, ‘I'm dying of hunger.
                    That's another symptom. It is absurd; one has either no appetite at all or else
                    one feels absolutely starving. Let's go, let's go at once. I want to make the
                    most of my holiday. Dinner first, très-cher;
                    and then a drive in the Bois! I feel so sentimental already—I shall adore that
                    drive in the Bois. Come, Georges, make haste—help me on again with my coat. Be
                    very careful with the sleeves....’
                She bent her head, for a moment, with a cat-like caress, on his shoulder, as he
                    carefully patted and tucked the rosy gauze into the coat-sleeves. As he stood,
                    with this exquisite young girl in his arms, he could see the bent figure of the
                    old studio-sweeper as she passed, mumbling and nodding, out of the room, to be
                    swallowed up in the vague shadows of the passage.
                ‘Sapristi! mais ce n'est pas amusant—la vie!’ he thought; but in another moment,
                    with the ferocious egotism of youth—and
                    especially of youth in love—he had almost forgotten her.
                By and by, when the studio had been empty some time, and even the odour of chypre
                    had evaporated, Virginie crept back again and began painfully putting things to
                    rights. It must all look straight and tidy for M. Georges, she told herself,
                    when he came back.... Outside, there was already something of the cold serenity
                    of evening in the still, primrose-coloured sky. The ringdoves were silent,
                    huddled together in their wicker cage, their beaks tucked beneath their wings.
                    Across the courtyard a fresh but hoarse young voice could be heard singing a
                    light song of the quarter.
                Virginie looked around. M. Georges had taken the letters and placed them in the
                    drawer of an inlaid cabinet. But presently. as she stooped about, picking up
                    brushes and painting rags, she found a length of faded ribbon.
                It was the ribbon which had tied the precious love-letters—the ribbon which had
                    once been rose-coloured.
                ‘They will not want that,’ she muttered, and she thrust it into her meagre
                    camisole.
                With sundown it was becoming cold. The fire had
                    gone out, the big room wa growing glacial, and it was filled, too, with vague
                    and sinister shadows.
                ‘Yes, the old feel chilly in April,’ she mumbled, gathering her little shawl
                    round her shoulders—‘dame, the old feel chilly
                    in the spring.’
            
            THE END
        
    
