
     ----CITATION----
        Steel, Flora Annie Webster (1847-1929). The Potter's Thumb, Volume 1. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 282 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (29-Apr-1998).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7131
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    THE POTTER'S THUMB 
                    A Novel
                
                BY FLORA ANNIE STEEL AUTHOR OF ‘MISS STUART'S
                    LEGACY,’ ETC.
                IN THREE VOLUMES
                VOL. I.
                
                    LONDON 
                    WILLIAM HEINEMANN 
                
                1894
                [All rights reserved]
            
            
            
                Edinburgh: T. and A. CONSTABLE, Printers to Her Majesty
            
        
        
        
            THE POTTER'S THUMB
            
                CHAPTER I
                ‘'TIS only the potter's thumb, Huzoor.’
                As she raised the parti?coloured rag covering the child's body, the noonday sun
                    streamed down upon a pitiful sight. Yet her eyes, despite the motherhood which
                    lay in them, accepted it, as the sun did, calmly. Emotion, such as it was, being
                    reserved for the couple of Englishmen who stood by: and even there curiosity and
                    repulsion froze the surface of pity, especially in the younger of the two
                    faces.
                In good sooth, not a pleasant sight for mankind, to whom sickness does not as a
                    rule bring that quick interest born of a desire to aid which it does to most
                    women. The brown skin was fair with the pallor of disease, and the fine, sparse, black hair showed the contour of
                    the skull. The unnatural hollows of the temples emphasised the unnatural
                    prominence of the closed eyelids, round whose ragged margin of clogged lashes
                    the flies settled in clusters. Below this death's?head was an over?large body,
                    where, despite its full curves, each rib stood sharply defined, and whence the
                    thin limbs angled themselves in spidery fashion.
                ‘The potter's thumb?’ echoed Dan Fitzgerald interrogatively. He was a tall man,
                    broad in the shoulders, lean in the flank, and extraordinarily handsome; yet the
                    most noticeable quality in the face looking down at the very ordinary woman
                    squatting upon a very ordinary dust?heap, was not its beauty, but its vitality.
                    ‘Is that a disease?’ he added, almost sharply.
                She gave the native cluck of emphatic denial. ‘No! Huzoor. The child dies because
                    it does not drink milk properly; yet is it the potter's thumb in the beginning.
                    Lo! many are born so in this place. The doctor?sahib who put the
                        tikka on the arms for smallpox said Hodinuggur was too
                    old for birth—that it was a graveyard. I know
                    not. Only this is true; many are born with this; many die of it.’
                ‘Die of the potter's thumb—what potter?’
                Her broad face broadened still more into a smile. ‘The Huzoor doth not
                    understand! Lo! when the potter works on the clay, his hand slips sometimes in
                    the moulding. It leaves a furrow, so,’—her brown finger, set with tarnished
                    silver rings, traced a girdle round the baby's naked breast—‘then in the firing
                    the pot cracks. Cracks like these,’—here the finger pointed to the sherds among
                    which she sate,—‘so when children are born as this one, we say 'tis the potter's
                    thumb. Sometimes there is a mark,’—again the finger softly followed the line it
                    had traced before—‘this one had it clear when he came; sometimes none can see
                    it, but 'tis there all the same, all the same. The potter's thumb has slipped;
                    the pot will crack in the firing.’
                Her voice took a cadence as if accustomed to the words.
                ‘What is she saying?’ interrupted George Keene impatiently. He was a
                    middle?sized lad of twenty or thereabouts,
                    powerfully made, with grey eyes and white teeth gleaming in an aquiline,
                    sunburnt face.
                ‘Something ghastly,’ replied Dan. ‘It always is so, you'll find, my dear boy,
                    when you dip below the indifferent calm of these people. It's like deciphering a
                    tombstone. But come on. We are due already at the World, the Flesh, and the
                    Devil's.’ Then he paused, gave a short laugh, and flung out his hands in an
                    impulsive gesture. ‘By the Powers!’ he went on, his face seeming to kindle with
                    the fuel of his own fancy, ‘it's gruesome entirely. This heap of dust they call
                    Hodinuggur, as they call thousands of such human ant?hills all over India; for
                    wherever when you dig, the bricks grow bigger and bigger till, hocus
                        pocus! they vanish in the dust from which God made
                        man—that is Hodinuggur; the old city, it means. What city? who
                    knows! Then in the corner of this particular one a survival’—his eager hand
                    pointed to the pile of buildings before them—‘not of those old days, for no
                    Moghul in India dates beyond Timoor, and these people are Moghuls; but of that
                        Mohammedan civilisation which overwhelmed
                    the older one, just as we in our turn are overwhelming the Moghul—who in the
                    meantime bullies the people by virtue of an Englishman's signature on a piece of
                    parchment—’
                ‘But I suppose we found the Diwan in possession when we annexed—’ began George
                    stolidly.
                Dan scorned the interruption and the common?sense. ‘Oh, 'tis queer, looked at any
                    way. A mound of sherds and dust higher than the gateway of the palace. I'll go
                    bail that reed hut yonder on the top is higher than old Zubr?ul?Zamân's tower.
                    He lives up there winter and summer, does the old Diwan, looking out over his
                    world and the strength of it—that's what his name means, you know. His son,
                    Khush?hâl Beg, lives in the next storey. A Jack Falstaff of a man—that s why I
                    call him the Flesh. Then Dalel, the Devil, roams about seeking whom he may
                    devour.’
                ‘A charming trio; and what part have I to play in the drama?’ asked George with a
                    laugh.
                ‘St. George, of course.’
                The lad laughed louder. ‘So I am in baptism.
                    George for short. Born on the saint's day—father a parson—fire away, old
                    chap—don't let me pull Pegasus.’
                ‘Sure! my dear boy, and aren't you sent to fight them all? Sent into this
                    wilderness of a place to be tempted—’
                ‘Oh, don't talk rot, Fitzgerald! I suppose you mean about the sluice?gate; but
                    it's sheer folly.’
                ‘Is it? My two last subordinates didn't find it so. Perhaps the potter's thumb
                    had slipped over their honesty. So the authorities gave me you—a real white
                    man—and said it was my last chance. Think of that now, my boy, and be
                    careful.’
                George Keene frowned perceptibly.
                ‘That's a fine old gateway,’ he said, to change the subject. As they approached
                    it a flock of iridescent pigeons rocketed from the dark niches to circle and
                    flash against the sky. It was a great square block of a building cut through by
                    one high arch of shadow, and showing the length of the tunnel in the smallness
                    of the sunlit arch beyond. On the worn brick causeway, as they entered, half in
                    the sunshine, half in shade, lay the scattered
                    petals of a pomegranate blossom which some passer?by had flung aside.
                ‘By Jove, what a colour!’ said Fitzgerald; ‘like drops of blood.’
                George Keene frowned again. ‘If I had your diseased imagination I'd engage
                    lodgings in Bedlam. Seriously, I mean it. Fellows like you are get rid of it in
                    words—all froth and fuss; but if that sort of thing ever got a real grip on
                    me—Hullo! what's that?’ He flushed through his tan in sheer vexation at his own
                    start. From the deep recesses, which on either side of the causeway lost
                    themselves in shadow, came a clash as of silver bells, and something through the
                    arches showed white yet shadowy; something of exceeding grace, salaaming to the
                        sahib?logue; something sending the scent of jasmine
                    flowers into the hot air.
                ‘That is Chândni,’ said Dan, passing on regardless of the salutation, ‘she
                    generally sits here.’
                George, imitating his companion, felt the thrill still in his veins. ‘Chândni!’
                    he echoed, ‘that means silvery, doesn't it?’
                ‘Moonshine also. They call her Chândni?rât or Moonlit?night as a rule. If tales
                    be true, there is a good deal of the night about
                    her. She and Dalel—but here he comes, innocently, from a side door. The Devil
                    loves moonshiny nights.’
                The figure approaching them was not outwardly of diabolic mould, being altogether
                    too insignificant. The oval face was barely shadowed by a thin beard curling in
                    an oiled tuft on either side of the retreating chin, and the only
                    Mephistophelian feature was the narrow line of moustache waxed upwards towards
                    the eyes. The dress was nondescript to absurdity. A biretta?shaped Moghul cap,
                    heavy with church embroidery, sate jauntily on the long greasy hair; a blue
                    velvet shooting?coat, cut in Western fashion, was worn over baggy, white cotton
                    drawers, and these again were tucked away into sportsmanlike leather gaiters,
                    ending in striped socks and patent leather highlows. Such was Mirza Dalel Beg,
                    the Diwan's grandson. Behind him came lesser bloods of the same type: one with a
                    falcon on his wrist; all with curious eyes for George Keene, the new?comer.
                ‘Hullo, Dalel sahib!’ cried Dan in English. ‘Keene, let me introduce you in form
                    to his Highness.’
                
                The Mirza thrust out a small, cold, clammy hand; but thereinafter relapsed into
                    such absolute inaction, that George found no little difficulty in finishing the
                    ceremony.
                ‘Aha, I see!’ said his Highness jerkily, in a voice many tones too low for his
                    chest measurement. ‘Glad to see you, Keene. You shoot, I lend you gun or rifle.
                    You hawk, we go hawk together. You hunt, you use my crocks. Come, see my
                    stable.’
                Dan's eyebrows went up expressively. ‘Don't tempt him to?day, Mirza sahib,’ he
                    interrupted gravely. ‘We are already due at the State audience with your
                    grandfather. Aren't you to be there as heir?presumptive?’
                Dalel crackled with a high?toned laugh which did not match his voice. ‘Bosh! My
                    gov'nor is there in swagger dress. He likes. I am different. Good?bye, Keene.
                    You must come often, and we will go shoot, hunt, polo, billiard, and be jolly.
                    Ta, ta! I go to stables.’
                The two Englishmen walked on in silence for a while. Then George Keene looked at
                    his companion with a queer smile.
                ‘So, that's the Devil?—that—that heterogeneous bounder—’
                
                ‘Heterogeneous bounder is good—parlous good,’ replied Dan, still gravely; ‘but
                    here is our reception party, so, for heaven's sake, look dignified, and don't
                    shake hands, mind, unless they offer to do so. They know their own rank, you
                    see; you don't know yours.’
                The lad, as he obeyed orders, felt that he knew very little of anything in India;
                    the fact being evident in the surprise with which he noted the squalid
                    appearance of all things, save the ruinous masonry; even of the state?room
                    where, on a cane?bottomed chair, set on a filthy striped carpet, a mountain of
                    flesh awaited them. It did not need his companion's whisper to make him
                    understand that this must be the heir?apparent Khush?hâl Beg, for the fat man,
                    coming forward to the appointed stripe—thus far and no further—held out his
                    hand.
                ‘The Huzoor is young,’ he wheezed in a stately dignified voice. ‘But youth is a
                    great gift. With it even the desert need not be dull. 'Tis only as we grow
                    older—’ He paused and crossed his hands over his fat stomach with a sigh, as if
                    to him the only consolation for age lay there. Dan shot one of his almost
                    articulate looks at his companion as they
                    passed on to a narrow stone stair where there was barely room for single?file
                    order up the steep steps. Up and up it went seemingly in the thickness of the
                    wall, with little loopholes sending a faint light at the turns; up and up,
                    breathlessly, till the party emerged on the roof of the Diwan's tower, where, in
                    a pavilion set round with arched arcades, they found the old man himself, backed
                    by a semi?circle of shabby retainers, whose gay clothes showed tawdry in the
                    pitiless sunlight.
                Yet Dan's whisper of ‘the World’ provoked no smile in his companion, for there
                    was nothing to smile at in Zubr?ul?Zamân, old and shrunken as he was. So old
                    that those steep stairs cut him off from his kind; so old that his chin lay upon
                    his breast, his palms upon his knees, as though both head and hands were weary
                    of the world. What his heart thought of his ninety and odd years of life none
                    knew. None could even guess, for the simple reason that Zubr?ul?Zamân had never
                    showed that he possessed a heart. Of brains and skill he had no lack even now;
                    but of pity, love, tenderness, only this was certain, that he had never sought
                    them even in others. Yet the English boy had
                    eyes only for that wrinkled, indifferent face, while Dan Fitzgerald, seated on
                    one of the two cane?bottomed chairs set opposite the Diwan's red velvet one,
                    explained in set terms why George came to be seated in the other. Not a pleasant
                    tale altogether, told as it was with official boldness of expression. Briefly,
                    the sluice?gate of the canal had been opened too often, and Government did not
                    intend it to occur again.
                When he ceased, the Diwan raised his head slowly, and George felt an odd thrill
                    at his first sight at those luminous dark eyes; a thrill which continued as, at
                    a sign from the old man, the court rhetorician standing surcharged with
                    eloquence at the Diwan's right hand, burst into a stream of polished Persian
                    periods which, hitting the keynote of the empty pavilion, roused a murmurous
                    echo in its arcades. It reminded George of the general confession in his
                    father's church on a week?day when the choir was absent; one certain note
                    followed by faint efforts after repentance. The fancy, indeed, clung closer to
                    facts than his ignorance of the language allowed him to perceive, as the speech
                    dealt chiefly in regrets for the untoward
                    events in the past which had made it incumbent on ‘Gee Uff Keene sahib
                        bahâdur’ to languish in the wilderness of Hodinuggur, though
                    doubtless the presence of the said ‘Gee Uff Keene sahib
                        bahâdur’ would cause that desert to blossom like a rose, despite
                    the want of water. These reiterations of his own name made George feel a sense
                    of unknown responsibility, as of a baby at its own christening. He looked
                    anxiously at Dan, his sponsor, but the latter was now conversing with the Diwan
                    in the usual explosive sentences followed by the decorous silences due to
                    dignity, while the attendants brought forward divers round brass trays covered
                    with Manchester pocket?handkerchiefs and laid them at the visitors' feet.
                    George's share consisted of three, one containing dried fruits and sugar, one of
                    various rich cloths topped by a coarse white muslin pugree,
                    the third conglomerate. A French clock, with Venus Anadyomene in alabaster, some
                    pantomime jewelry, a green glass tumbler, a tin of preserved beetroot, a
                    lacquered tray with the motto ‘for a good boy,’ and various other odds and ends.
                    Among them a small blue earthenware pot. Was it
                    blue after all, or did a gold shimmer suggest a pattern beneath the glaze? A
                    queer, quaint shape, dumpy, yet graceful. That broad, straight ring around it
                    should have marred its curves but failed to do so; strange! how these people had
                    the knack of running counter to recognised rules, and yet— Here George was
                    recalled to the present by Dan whispering—
                ‘Take it, man! Take it!’
                Looking round he saw the latter removing something from a tray, and his own head
                    being full of the blue pot, his hand naturally went out towards it.
                ‘No! no!’ continued Dan, in the same voice, ‘the pugree.’
                ‘But I've got one already!’
                The instinctive greed of the reply made his companion smile as he explained that
                    the pugree was put there on purpose. But, as he spoke, the
                    Diwan signed to an attendant who stepping forward, transferred the blue pot to
                    the tray of dried fruits.
                ‘It is nothing,’ came the courteous voice, setting aside all disclaimers; ‘our
                    potter makes them.’
                
                ‘I did not know they could put such a good glaze on nowadays,’ remarked
                    Fitzgerald, yielding the point. ‘A first?rate piece of work indeed; does the man
                    live here?’
                Khush?hâl Beg turned to the speaker breathlessly. ‘He is crazy, Huzoor. The Lord
                    destroyed his reason by an accident. The old wall fell on his house one night
                    and killed his daughter. Since then he lives away, where nought can fall, like
                    the crazy one he is.’
                The stress and hurry of the speech were evident, even though the fat man was
                    still suffering from the stairs.
                ‘Thank the Lord! that's over,’ said Dan piously, when the last diminishing tail
                    of escort left them with but one orderly to carry the spoil. ‘I ought to have
                    warned you about the pugree—but there! you might have done
                    worse—the French clock, for instance. Come! let's strike home across the mound.
                    I want to show you a dodge of mine on the canal cut.’
                He plunged headlong, after his wont, into professional matters till even George,
                    fresh from college technicalities, could scarcely follow him, and found himself
                    wondering why a man of such vast capacity
                    should have succeeded so indifferently; for Dan Fitzgerald was not a persona grâta at headquarters. To be that, a
                    subordinate often has to conceal his own talents, and this man could not even
                    conceal his faults. Some folk are so self?contained that a burden of blame finds
                    no balance on their shoulders; others are so hospitable that they serve as
                    hold?alls both for friends and foes; and there was plenty of room both for
                    praise and blame in Dan Fitzgerald's excitable Celtic nature.
                ‘What's that?’ cried George suddenly. With the best intentions his attention had
                    wandered, for everything in that circle of dun?coloured horizon domed with blue
                    was new to him. Dan paused, listening. An odd rhythmic hum came from the highest
                    hut, which was separated from the others by palisades of plaited tiger?grass
                    shining in the afternoon light like a diaper of gold.
                ‘The potter's wheel!’ he cried, his face changing indescribably in an instant.
                    ‘Come on, Keene, and let us see the man who made your first bribe!’
                He gave no time for reply, but turning at right
                    angles through a gap threaded his way past piles of pots and sherds until he ran
                    the sound to earth. Literally to earth—a circle of the solid earth spinning
                    dizzily in front of a man buried to his waist. At least so it seemed at first to
                    George Keene's ignorance of potters and their wheels. A circle, dazzling at its
                    outer edge, clearer at the centre where something beneath a steady curved hand
                    shot up, and bulged; then, as the whirr slackened, sank into a bomb of clay.
                ‘Salaam alaikoom!’ came a pleasant voice as the worker sat back in his seat?hole
                    so as to ease his feet. He was a mild?faced old gentleman with nothing
                    remarkable about him save a pair of shifty eyes—the light hazel eyes seen so
                    rarely in a native's face.
                ‘Salaam alaikoom,’ returned Dan. ‘The little sahib has never seen a wheel worked.
                    Will you show him?’
                ‘Wherefore not, Huzoor? The sahib could come to none better, seeing we of
                    Hodinuggur have spun the wheel of life for years—for ages and ages and
                    ages.’
                The words blent with the rising cadence of the wheel as he leant forward to the
                        task again. Faster and faster upon the
                    wheel with a swaying motion. Only the potter's hand poised motionless above the
                    whirring clay which showed—as children say—like a top asleep. Then suddenly came
                    the turn of the potter's thumb, bringing a strange weird life with it. One
                    protean curve after another swelling, sinking, shifting, falling. The eye could
                    scarcely follow their swift birth and death, until the potter, sitting back once
                    more, the slackening wheel disclosed the hollows and bosses.
                ‘The clay is good,’ he said, as if deprecating his own skill, ‘and it fires
                    well.’
                ‘When the thumb does not slip,’ put in Dan quietly. The potter turned to him in
                    sudden interest.
                ‘The Huzoor knows the sayings of the people, that is well; it is not often so.
                    Yea! it slips—thus.’ The wheel still span slowly, he shifted his hand almost
                    imperceptibly and a deep furrow scored itself upon the biggest boss. ‘So little
                    does it,’ he went on, ‘a grit clinging to the skin—a wandering thought. It is
                    Fate. Fuzl Elahi, the potter, cannot help it.’
                
                ‘Fuzl Elahi? Then you are a Mohammedan?’
                He shook his head. ‘I am as my fathers were. The Moghuls call me so, the Hindus
                    otherwise; but it means the same. By the grace of God, potter of Hodinuggur
                    since time began. Lo! my fathers and my children are in the clay. I dug a grave
                    in the dust for the boy; the girl dug hers for herself. It was deep, Huzoor. I
                    search for it always; in vain, in vain.’ The wheel set up its rhythmic hum once
                    more, but the hands lay idle.
                ‘Poor old chap,’ said Dan aside, ‘I suppose he is thinking of the accident; but
                    by the powers, Keene, it is a situation. Seated here on a
                    pinnacle—a crazy irresponsible creator—’
                ‘Ask him if he made the pot, please,’ interrupted George brutally. ‘If I could
                    get a pair, I'd send them to the mater. Those
                    things are always in pairs, you know.’
                ‘Pairs! you intolerable Philistine! A potter's vessel trying to be matched before
                    it's broken in pieces. Think of the tragedy—the humour of it’
                ‘Will you ask, or shall I?’
                
                Fitzgerald grinned maliciously. ‘You. I like to hear you stuttering.’
                George smiled, rose, and taking the blue pot from the attendant's tray laid it on
                    the potter's wheel.
                ‘Did you make that?’ he asked, in English. His meaning was palpable.
                ‘No, Huzoor.’
                ‘If you did not, who did?’ he continued, his triumph mixed with anxiety for the
                    future; but the old man's thoughts did duty for an answer.
                ‘Without doubt my fathers made it; since it is an Ayôdhya pot.’
                ‘Ayôdhya,’ broke in Dan, ‘that means old, Keene; you'll have to send it back. I
                    half suspected it was valuable, from that old fox's look. But he said it was
                    made here, the sinner! Can you make pots like that, oh! Fuzl Elahi?’
                The old man smiled. ‘None can give the glaze, Huzoor, there is a pattern in it,
                    but none can catch the design. Even I know it not; that is the secret of
                    Ayôdhya.’
                ‘What is he saying? What is Ayôdhya?’ asked George irritably.
                
                ‘Same as Hodi—old; it means here the half?forgotten heroic age. Well, as you
                    can't get a pair, we had best be moving. Salaam! potter?ji, and don't let your
                    thumb slip too often in the future.’
                ‘God send it hath not slipped too often in the past,’ he replied, half to
                    himself.
                An hour afterwards the two Englishmen sat on the low parapet of the canal bridge
                    looking out over a world?circle of dusty plain, treeless, featureless, save for
                    the shadowy mound of Hodinuggur on one side, and on the other a red brick house
                    dotted causelessly upon the sand. A world?circle split into halves by the great
                    canal, which eastwards towards the invisible hills showed like a bar of silver;
                    westwards towards the invisible sea like a flash of gold, at whose end the last
                    beams of the setting sun hung like the star on a magician's wand.
                ‘Water, water everywhere, and not a drop to drink,’ murmured Dan
                    Fitzgerald discontentedly. ‘Upon my soul, it must be rough on them watching it
                    all day long, and knowing that if they could only get you to open
                    the sluice they would get rupees on rupees from the Rajah. That's how it stands, you see. It
                    isn't so much for their own bit of land, but for the bribe. I sometimes wish the
                    overflow cut had been higher up, or lower down, but we had to protect the big
                    embankment against abnormal floods. Confound the thing! what business has it to
                    put hydraulic pressure on us all?’
                ‘Don't feel it much as yet,’ said George cheerfully, with his eyes on the palace,
                    which was gaining an unreal beauty from the dust of ages. For the village cattle
                    were homing to the thorn?set folds, and the cloud from their leisurely feet lay
                    in a golden mist between the shadowed plain and the shadowed mound rising
                    against the golden sky. A lingering shaft of light showed the white fretwork of
                    the Diwan's tower clear against the pale purple of the potter's thatch
                    beyond.
                ‘Perhaps not. You will, though. The wilderness plays the dickens with
                    civilisation sometimes.’
                ‘Does it? I don't believe it will with mine. Not that sort. I haven't your
                    imagination, your sensitiveness, your poetical—’
                ‘Pull up,’ said Dan, laughing. ‘You'll come to
                    my vices soon, and as I've pet names for most of them, I object to have them
                    scientifically classified. But I wish I hadn't to leave you there.’ He pointed
                    distastefully to the red parallelogram of a house with the initials of the
                    Public Works Department stamped on each brick like the broad arrow on a convict.
                    ‘It isn't fit for a youngster like you. But as it can't be helped, there's the
                    key. For my sake don't let the World, the Flesh, or the Devil wheedle it out of
                    you.’
                ‘All right,’ replied the boy, pocketing the Chubb. ‘If you are engaged to be
                    married, go and do it right off. Promotion in due course guaranteed.’
                Dan Fitzgerald, looking down at the sliding water, was silent for a minute.
                    ‘You've hit the right nail on the head,’ he said at last. ‘That's why I'm
                    anxious; but by the powers! your work is cut out for you if you are to keep me
                    from getting into hot water.’
                ‘It isn't the water that does it,’ muttered George, as they strolled off to
                    dinner, ‘it's the spirits.’
                That was the truth in more senses than one. George had been living with his
                    superior officer for two months at
                    headquarters, and his cool, clear head had noted the fascination which
                    stimulants of all kinds had for Dan's excitable nature. But he had said nothing,
                    after the manner of men. Therefore it came as a surprise even to himself when
                    that evening something made him say hurriedly—
                ‘Better not, Fitzgerald; you've a long ride before you.’
                Dan, his hand on the whisky bottle, paused, surprised in his turn; but George
                    seemed to feel that key in his pocket outline itself against the thumping of his
                    heart.
                ‘Are you afraid I won't leave you any?’ asked the elder quickly. ‘I'll send you a
                    bottle by post, if that's it. Come! hands off, youngster; don't be a fool!
                    That's enough.’
                The angry red was not on his cheek only. It had spread to the boy's, as he stood
                    back in a sudden flare of utterly unexpected dignity.
                ‘Quite enough, Mr. Fitzgerald. I've been your guest for two months, I know; but
                    you are mine now. This is my house, and that's my bottle. I'll trouble you to
                    put it down.’
                
                For an instant it seemed on its way to the speaker's head; then it was pushed
                    aside scornfully; the next Dan held out his hand.
                ‘Thanks. No one has taken that trouble for years. What made you do it?’
                But the English boy's shame at his own impulsiveness was on George now, and he
                    laughed uneasily. ‘I—I believe it was that confounded key,’ he began. Dan's
                    smile was transfiguring.
                ‘God bless the boy!’ he cried, with the ring of tears and laughter in his rich
                    brogue. ‘So you're the Keeper of the Key of the King's conscience, are you? The
                    saints protect you; for see! your sort don't know mine. We leave off the effort
                    after virtue where you begin, and I spend more solid holiness in refusing a
                    glass of sherry than you do in keeping all the Ten Commandments. Sure the sun's
                    got into my head, and I must be off to the water cure.’
                He was out of the room, out of the house, standing on the bridge abutment and
                    stripping as for dear life before George caught him up breathlessly and asked if
                    he were quite mad.
                ‘Not yet!’ came the joyous voice. ‘I'm going to swim up stream till I'm beat,
                        and come down with the current—an epitome
                    of my life!’
                The rapid Indian twilight had fallen into night, but the moon had risen, and the
                    air was warm with the first touch of spring which in Northern India treads close
                    on the heels of the new year. Fitzgerald pausing for a second showed like a
                    white statue on the buttress; then his curved body shot into the shadow with the
                    cry—
                ‘I come, Mother of All!’
                Tristram's cry when he sprang to ‘the sea's breast as to a mother's where his
                    head night rest,’ thought George, watching with the vague anxiety inseparable
                    from the disappearance of life beneath the water. Ah! there he was—safe; turning
                    his head to call out ‘Don't wait, please! Tell the syce to have the mare ready
                    for me in half an hour.’
                Yet George did wait, watching the arrowy ripple cleaving the steel?grey path
                    which led straight up to the steel?grey sky where the stars hung sparkling. If
                    he thought they were reflected in the still water ahead as they were in the
                    still water below the bridge, Dan must feel as if he was swimming in the
                    ether!
                
                Decidedly, imagination was catching. George Keene was reminded of the fact again
                    as he stood looking over to the mound of Hodinuggur, and listening to the last
                    echo of the horse's hoofs bearing Dan away from the wilderness. There was a
                    light in the Diwan's tower, another in the potter's hut. He wondered vaguely
                    which was really the highest; then, to check such idle thoughts, began on the
                    first duty of youth in a foreign land—home letters.
                ‘Dear father,’ he wrote fluently, ‘I arrived at Hodinuggur, my headquarters,
                    to?day. It is—’
                Half an hour afterwards he tore up the sheet angrily and went to bed.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER II
                IT was band?night in the public gardens; mail night also; a combination
                    of dancing and picture papers, ensuring a large attendance in the big hall,
                    which had been built, gravely, as a memorial to some departed statesman. But now
                    English girls hurried through its dim corridors to the ladies' dressing?room,
                    intent on changing tennis shoes for dancing slippers. English women took
                    possession of the comfortable nooks between the pillars where there was room for
                    two. English boys lounged about the vestibule, finishing their cigars and
                    waiting for the band to strike up. English men drifted to billiards and whist,
                    or to their own special corner in the reading?room.
                A weird?looking place even at noon was the big hall set round with paste and
                    paper mementoes of the semi?historic festivals held beneath its high arched roof; with shields from the
                    Prince of Wales' ball, flags from the Imperial installation, trophies from the
                    welcome given to our soldiers after an arduous campaign. But seen now by the few
                    lamps lit at one end it looked positively ghostly, as if it must be haunted by a
                    thousand memories of dead men, and women, and children who had flitted across
                    the kaleidoscope of Rajpore society. Up in the gallery the native band, after
                    playing ‘God save the Queen’ to the Aryan brother outside, was tuning up for
                    dance music. And by?and?bye a couple would come waltzing out of the shadows into
                    the bright reflections of the polished floor, and waltz back again. Then three
                    or four couples, perhaps ten or a dozen; not more. Viewed from the other end,
                    where the non?dancers sat in darkness, the scene looked like a dim reflection of
                    something going on in another world.
                And outside, under the rising moon, the builders of the hall trooped home to the
                    packed highways and byways of the native city, full, no doubt, of that silent,
                    evergreen wonder at the strange customs of the ruling race which is an integral part of native life; that
                    ruling race which, with all its eccentricities, rules better than even the
                    fabled Vicramiditya himself!
                In the far corner of the inner reading?room a girl of about twenty stood looking
                    at the new number of the Scientific American, keeping a stern watch
                    the while on the present possessor of the Saturday Review. A tennis
                    bat lay on the table beside her, and her workmanlike flannels and tan shoes
                    showed what her occupation had been. For the rest, a well?made, well?balanced
                    girl, looking as if she walked well, rode well, danced well, and took an honest
                    pride in doing so. Her face was chiefly remarkable for a pair of beautifully
                    arched eyebrows, and her best point was undoubtedly the poise of her head with
                    its closely plaited coif of hair.
                A sort of snore followed by a thud, told that people were passing in and out
                    through the swing?doors of the outer room. Here, however, as befitted the abode
                    of more serious literature, all was peaceful; almost empty in fact and its only
                    other female occupant was a medical lady deep in the Lancet.
                
                ‘Oh Gordon!’ called a voice from the outer room, ‘have you seen my daughter?’
                ‘Miss Tweedie is here, sir,’ replied the young man addressed. ‘She has been for
                    the last five minutes trying to make up her mind whether to go and dance, or
                    brain Dr. Greenfell for keeping the Saturday so long.’
                ‘Really, Mr. Gordon!’ cried Rose Tweedie aghast ‘No indeed not—Dr. Greenfell! I
                    didn't really—I mean I was of course, but I don't now! Oh, it's awfully good of
                    you.’ Then as the apologetic little doctor moved away, pausing to say a few
                    words to a tall gray?haired man who was entering, she turned aggressively to the
                    offender: ‘Why did you say that, Mr. Gordon?’
                ‘Why, Miss Tweedie? Because you insisted yesterday that women preferred the
                    truth, even when it was rude. And it was true. I suppose, as your father wants
                    you, I have no hope of this dance; and I'm engaged for all the others.’
                Rose Tweedie's eyebrows went up. ‘How lucky for you! I mean, of course, how
                    unlucky for me.’ Then she added in more conciliatory tones, ‘I'm not dancing
                    to?night; these shoes won't do.’ She thrust out
                    her shapely foot with the careless freedom of a child.
                ‘I can see no fault,’ he replied artificially, putting up his eye?glass, ‘they
                    appear to me quite perfect.’
                ‘Your knowledge of women doesn't apparently extend to their understandings,’ she
                    retorted quickly, her voice, as usual when she was irritated, showing a trace of
                    Scotch accent. ‘Oh father! if you want me to come home, I'm ready.’
                Colonel Tweedie hesitated. A single glance at him suggested that the late Mrs.
                    Tweedie must have been a women of strong individuality, or else that Rose had
                    reverted to some ancestral type.
                ‘Not, not exactly, my dear. I only—wanted to—er—speak to you.’
                ‘Good?bye, Miss Tweedie,’ said Lewis Gordon, taking the hint. ‘Oh! by the way,
                    sir, if your daughter will remember I'm a personal assistant, and excuse shop
                    for an instant—Fitzgerald came back to?day from Hodinuggur.’
                Rose Tweedie's face lit up. ‘Did he say how Mr. Keene liked it?’ she asked
                    eagerly.
                ‘I'm afraid not; but he can scarcely be expected
                    to like the desert after—Rajpore. I shouldn't—under the circumstances. That is
                    all, sir; except that he reports everything satisfactory, so far.’
                The Colonel gave a little cough; it was his way of starting the official machine
                    inside the social one. ‘I hope—for Mr. Fitzgerald's sake it—it—er—may remain so.
                    The past scandals have been a disgrace—er—to the Department.
                ‘Not to him, though,’ broke in Rose hotly. ‘I think he is quite one of the nicest
                    people I ever met.’
                ‘And what is more, the ablest man we have in our service,’ added Lewis Gordon
                    heartily. The girl's face softened at his tone. If he would only speak like that
                    always, instead of simpering and scraping!
                ‘Well, father, what is it?’ she asked when he had gone. The other readers had
                    drifted away, and the medical lady looked as if even the last trump would not
                    rouse her from the post?mortem she was perusing, so to all intents and purposes
                    they were alone. Colonel Tweedie gave another little cough; it was an unusual
                    occurrence in private matters, and she repeated her question with quickened
                    interest.
                
                ‘I want you, my dear, to go and speak to—to Mrs. Boynton. I've—I've asked her to
                    come into camp with us this time.’
                ‘Why?’
                Pages full of words would fail to give a better idea of Rose Tweedie's mental
                    outlook than this simple interrogation. Briefly, she must have a reason, good,
                    bad, or indifferent, for everything. Her father, being her father and knowing
                    this, had several ready.
                ‘Dacre's wife isn't strong enough to face the sand, and you must have a
                    chaperon—I mean another lady—you never need a chaperon of course, my dear—but if
                    anything happened;—besides, we shall be very busy, and it will be lonely. I
                    thought it better than leaving you at home. It isn't as if she were quite an
                    outsider. She is Gordon's cousin, and he is my personal—’
                ‘The widow of a cousin, you mean,’ she interrupted with emphasis. ‘A cousin he
                    scarcely knew; and he never even saw her till he returned from
                    furlough last year.’
                ‘Didn't he, my dear?’ said the Colonel feebly. ‘Still, they are relations. Call
                    each other by their Christian names, and—’
                
                This time a laugh interrupted him; rather a hard laugh for a girl.
                ‘What a number of cousins the Rajpore ladies must have!’ she began.
                ‘Not Mrs. Boynton, Rose; not Mrs. Boynton,’ protested the Colonel with
                    spirit.
                ‘No, I admit it. She is perfectly lady?like. I don't really dislike her a
                    bit.’
                ‘Dislike! my dear Rose! who could dislike so—so—’
                ‘I admit it again, father. She is charming. I catch myself watching her, just as
                    if I were in love with her like all the nice men are.'
                ‘Really, my dear Rose—’
                ‘Well, dear, why not? She is perfectly sweet. Then she has such tact. Do you know
                    she never allows an ungentlemanly man to fall in love with her? I often wonder
                    how she manages it. It's awfully clever of her.’ Rose, standing by the fire,
                    shifted a log with her foot and the sparks flew upwards. ‘Of course I would
                    rather have had a girl; but I suppose it wouldn't have done. There! don't worry,
                    dear! Go off to your whist. I'll settle it all.’
                ‘My dear girl—’
                
                She told him calmly that there was no need for gratitude, and Colonel James
                    Tweedie, R.E., head of a great Department, slunk away abashed to the card?room.
                    Rose was very fond of her father, though she understood him perfectly—after the
                    manner of modern children; accepting him reasonably, with all his weaknesses, as
                    the parent Providence had assigned to her. And why, if she would have him,
                    should he not marry Mrs. Boynton? The mother, who had died when Rose was born,
                    had been well remembered; the Colonel was still middle?aged, and when his
                    daughter married might have long years of solitude before him. Would it be fair
                    for her to object? It was another of Rose Tweedie's characteristics that this
                    question came uppermost in her dealings with both friends and foes. No! it would
                    not be fair; there was no reason against it. None.
                So she walked off calmly to the big hall, waiting to see Gwen Boynton's graceful
                    figure, paired with some worthy partner, of course, come swaying out into the
                    ring of light. But she was disappointed; for the very simple reason that the
                    lady she sought was sitting with Lewis Gordon
                    in the most comfortable corner in the whole building.
                ‘Miss Tweedie!’ said an eager voice behind her, as she stood instinctively
                    marking the rhythm of the dance with one foot. ‘Have you seen Mrs. Boynton? I
                    can't find her anywhere.’
                She turned gladly. It was Dan Fitzgerald, representing, as he always did,
                    humanity at its handsomest. ‘So you're back! No, Mr. Fitzgerald. She is not
                    dancing, anyhow; but as those are the last bars, that is cold comfort. What a
                    pity! when you came down to the hall on purpose.’
                He flushed up like a girl; and she pointed to the gardenia in his
                    button?hole.
                ‘You don't go in for decoration except on state occasions,’ she continued, ‘and
                    then you weren't at tennis. I always keep a look?out for you there; that
                    back?handed return of yours from the line beats me. I've been trying it with the
                        chuprassie bowling at me, but it didn't come off somehow.
                    You must teach me when we are in camp.’
                ‘Of course I will,’ replied Dan cheerfully. Lewis Gordon would have simpered and
                        said, ‘Delighted, I'm sure.’ The
                    remembrance vexed Rose by its very appearance; as if it mattered what Gwen
                    Boynton's cousin said or did. And the vexation accounted for the phrasing of her
                    next words.
                ‘Mr. Keene sent me a message, didn't he? No! How stupid of him! It was about his
                        Nature. I was to have it, and he was to let me know what he
                    wanted me to do with it.’
                Dan's face, which had showed perplexity, cleared. ‘Ah, it's the magazine you're
                    meaning. Sure you puzzled me entirely, for it is not nature you want, Miss
                    Tweedie, though, 'tis true, one can't have too much of a good thing.’
                It was a distinct compliment or meant to be one, but Rose listened to it gaily,
                    and five minutes after, despite her shoes, was whirling in and out of the
                    shadows, full of the keen enjoyment which dancing brings to some people.
                Lewis Gordon, lounging lazily in his dark corner, noticed her with a certain
                    irritated surprise. It was a more inconsequent, therefore a more womanly action
                    than he expected in a girl who annoyed him by refusing to take either of the two
                    places he assigned to women folk in his Kosmos. There were those of whom wives and mothers could be made discreetly,
                    safely; and those who would be utterly spoilt by the commonplace process. He
                    turned to his cousin feeling no such difficulty in regard to her classification.
                    Yet in the dim light nothing could be seen save the outline of a small head, a
                    huge fur boa, and long curves ending in a bronzed slipper catching the light
                    beyond the shadow in which they sat.
                ‘Shall we not dance?’ he asked. ‘It is the best waltz of the three. Then I could
                    bring you some coffee and we could rest—on our laurels.’
                ‘No, thanks. I was engaged to Mr. Fitzgerald for the last, and I must give him
                    time to cool down.’ The voice was sweet, refined, careless.
                ‘I believe you are afraid of Fitzgerald.’
                There was a touch of hauteur in the sweetness now.
                ‘It is the second time this evening you have hinted at that, Lewis. I
                    suppose—being a sort of relation—you know something of that boy and girl
                    entanglement before I married your cousin. Is it so?’
                
                Her unexpected and unusual frankness took him aback into faint excuse.
                ‘There is nothing to apologise about, I assure you,’ she went on, regaining her
                    carelessness. ‘You may as well know, the facts. I was engaged to Mr. Fitzgerald.
                    We were both babies, and my people disapproved. Then your cousin proposed, and
                    good sense came to us; for we were not suited to each other. Du reste, Mr. Fitzgerald and I are still friends,
                    and he is the best dancer in Rajpore.’
                There was a pause, before he said quietly, ‘Why not be quite frank, Gwen, and say
                    he is in love with you still? Surely that is palpable.’
                ‘Perhaps. But I prefer to leave such questions alone, even with my cousin.
                    Especially since that cousin has done me the honour of telling me many times
                    that he is devoted to me himself.’
                He smiled at her deft evasion.
                ‘What is the use of any one being devoted to you, Gwen, if you are going to marry
                    Colonel Tweedie?’ he replied half jestingly.
                ‘I did not know I was going to marry him; but I
                    am certainly going to look after Miss Rose Tweedie in camp—if she will have me.
                    Do you think I shall want a new riding?habit, Mr. Gordon?’
                ‘I really cannot help you on that question, Mrs. Boynton.’ She leant towards him,
                    so that he could see the laugh pass from her pretty eyes. ‘ Don't be foolish,
                    Lewis. You have been too good and kind to me for that. You, who know my affairs
                    as well as I know them myself, must see that I have scarcely any choice between
                    marrying again, and going home to live with my mother?in?law, or starving in
                    some horrid poky lodging. How I should hate either! I can't live without money,
                    Lewis. I don't spend much—but it goes somehow. Then my pension as a civilian's
                    widow is but genteel poverty. Clothes are so expensive to begin with; yet even
                    your best friends don't care for you unless you are well dressed.’
                The real regret in her tone made him quote a trite saying about beauty
                    unadorned.
                ‘Rubbish!’ she interrupted, sinking into her cushions again. ‘Beauty is like the
                        blue teapot; you must live up to it. I must
                    marry some one who can afford a well?dressed wife. I must indeed, in common
                    honesty to my future creditors. Personally I should prefer it to the
                    mother?in?law. Besides, if I went home I should never see you again, Lewis. I
                    should not like that—would you?’
                If the words in themselves were a direct challenge, they came from the shadow
                    where she sat, so daintily, so airily, that half a dozen replies were possible
                    without trenching on sober affirmation or denial. Yet her hearer hesitated.
                    There must always be a time when a man settles whether or no he shall ask a
                    certain woman to be his wife, and this was not the first time the idea of
                    marrying his cousin had occurred to Lewis Gordon. He was not the head of a
                    Department, but he was in a fair way to become one in the future. He had money
                    of his own, and she liked him in a way. As for her? she was perfection as a
                    companion. As a wife?—
                ‘My dear Gwen! I should hate it,’ he said fervently, being certain of so much.
                    But when he had said the words, they sounded too little, or too much, so he took
                    refuge in jest again. ‘Faute de mieux I should prefer the family party; that is to say,
                    if you could induce your future step?daughter, Miss Rose, to bear with my
                    presence.’
                The light on the bronze slipper shifted, showing an impatient movement of the
                    pretty foot.
                ‘Impossible, I should say,’ came the voice, airy as ever; ‘but as you seem to be
                    imitating the barber's fifth brother to?night, why not settle that she should
                    marry? Girls do, sometimes, especially in India.’
                As she spoke a couple swooped out into the almost empty circle of polished floor.
                    The waltz, nearing its end, gave them a swinging measure, and those two were
                    dancers indeed. One could not choose but look, until, as the last chord crashed,
                    they stopped as if petrified, to smile at each other, before hurrying away.
                    Lewis Gordon watched them, his hands on his knees, a cynical smile on his
                    face.
                ‘By all means!’ he said languidly. ‘Suppose we say Dan Fitzgerald, and so get rid
                    of our two bêtes?noir at once.’
                Mrs. Boynton started from her cushions and gathered her boa together.
                
                ‘What nonsense we are talking! Stupid nonsense into the bargain—which is
                    intolerable. I am ashamed of myself. Come! let us have some coffee and forget
                    our folly.’
                Her companion rose to accompany her with a shrug of his shoulders. ‘I beg your
                    pardon, even though I fail to see the enormity of my offence. Fitzgerald, if he
                    were once settled—’
                She interrupted him with a gay laugh. ‘So you aspire to the barber's office in
                    other ways; would like to ranger your friends.
                    When I am duly installed as chaperon I must consult you on matrimonial
                    questions; but not till then, if you please, Lewis. Ah! there is Mrs. Dacre, I
                    haven't seen her for an age; not since I went to Meerut.’
                He took his dismissal placidly, as men do in a society where they cannot claim
                    the undivided attention of at least one woman. Besides, Gwen Boynton's chief
                    charm lay in the impossibility of forgetting that—provided she did not wish to
                    do something else—she would be quite as gracious to the person who cut into your
                    place as she had been to you. Furthermore that he was sure to hold as good a hand, and know the game as well as you did;
                    for Mrs. Boynton, as Rose Tweedie had remarked, admitted no inferior players to
                    her table. Seen now in the full light of the coffee?room she showed slight and
                    graceful in the soft grey draperies which she wore as half mourning for the late
                    Mr. Boynton—a perfectly unexceptional man who, on the verge of retirement, had
                    lost all the savings of a long bachelorhood in one unfortunate venture, and had
                    died of the disappointment. Beyond a perfectly lovely mouth and the faultless
                    curves of chin and throat, there was nothing remarkable in her face; nothing at
                    least to account for her remarkable charm. That, however, was indubitable; even
                    Lewis Gordon, sipping his coffee outside the circle which gathered round her
                    quickly, kept his eyes upon her. So he noticed hers turn more than once to Dan
                    Fitzgerald, who stood at the table waiting to replace Rose Tweedie's tumbler of
                    lemonade. ‘She is afraid of him,’ he thought. ‘I wonder why? Perhaps she hasn't
                    got over her fancy either; that is the only thing I can think of likely to
                    create a difficulty.’ Then he went off to button?hole another Secretary about business, and forgot even Gwen
                    Boynton.
                Yet, if half an hour afterwards he had by chance wandered into that portion of
                    the gardens devoted to zoology he would have seen something to confirm his
                    suggestion. For the two figures leaning over the iron rail surrounding the
                    ornamental water were those of Mrs. Boynton and Dan Fitzgerald. The moon shone
                    on the water; the clumps of bamboo and plantains on the central island showed
                    softly dark; masses of feathery tamarisk trees and the sweeping curves of a
                    sandhill or two beyond the garden shut out the world. Otherwise it was not a
                    suitable spot for sentimental interviews, by reason of the ducks and geese,
                    whose sleepy gabblings and quackings were apt to come in unsympathetic chorus to
                    lovers' talk, while the adjutants, standing in pairs side by side, their heads
                    under their wings, were over?suggestive of Darby and Joan. The conversation
                    between these two, however, was sufficiently sensible to stand the test of their
                    surroundings.
                ‘It is really absurd,’ she said in (for her) quite a querulous voice. ‘I accept a
                    pleasant invitation to make himself useful to the Tweedies, who have always been most kind to me,—and my cousin. And why every
                    one should jump to the conclusion that I am going to marry a man who is almost
                    old enough to be my father I cannot imagine. Really the world is too
                    idiotic.’
                ‘You don't lump me in as the world, do you, Gwen?’ he answered in a lower tone.
                    ‘Surely you make a difference—surely there is some excuse for me, dear? I
                    haven't seen you for six weeks, Gwen; you've been away, remember. And I hurried
                    so for that promised dance, which you forgot. Yes; we'll say you forgot it. Then
                    every one is talking of your going into camp with the Tweedies, wondering at
                    your giving up the pleasures, the society, hinting at some reason—’
                ‘If you can't trust me, Dan, that is an end of everything,’ she interrupted
                    sharply. ‘No, don't!—please, don't! One never knows who mayn't come this way. Do
                    let us be reasonable, Dan. We are not boy and girl now, to squabble and make it
                    up again. You tell me always that I love you—have always loved you—will never
                    love any one else; and perhaps you are right. Isn't that confidence enough for you?’ She tried her utmost to keep an even
                    tone, but something made the unwilling, smile on her lips tremulous.
                ‘It is, dear, and it isn't,’ he said, his face showing soft and kindly in the
                    moonlight. ‘If I were only as sure of the rest of you as I am that you love me!
                    But it was so, Gwen, in the old days; yet you threw me over. I knew it then, and
                    it made me go to the devil—more or less. For if I had had the pluck to say, “You
                    sha'n't,” you would have been happier. I spoilt your life as well as my own by
                    my cowardice. And I'm as bad as ever now, Gwen,—afraid to make you poor. Why
                    don't I speak up, Gwen, instead of giving in to the worst part of you?—instead
                    of waiting for promotion and making you more extravagant by paying the
                    bills?’
                ‘You needn't have reminded me of that!’ she cried hotly; ‘I'm not likely to
                    forget it.’
                He stared at her for an instant in sheer downright incredulity. Then he laid his
                    hand on hers sharply, and with the touch something that was neither dislike nor
                    fear, yet which seemed to alarm her, came to her face.
                ‘Don't say that, Gwen!
                        
                        ’
                     you don't—you can't mean it. For you
                    know it is all yours—that I'd starve to give you a pleasure. Ah, Gwen! if you
                    would only marry me to?morrow you'd never regret it. Why shouldn't you, dear?
                    There's no fear; look how I've got on since you gave me the hope two years ago
                    when I came to you in your trouble. If I had only had the pluck then to marry
                    you straight away—’
                ‘But it was impossible,’ she broke in quickly, as if to lure him from the point.
                    ‘What would people have said? It was so soon.’
                ‘What do I care? But now there is no reason—no reason at all. I'll get my
                    promotion all right. Keene is there at Hodinuggur, so nothing can go wrong
                    again. Gwen, why shouldn't you marry me to?morrow?’
                ‘To?morrow!’ she echoed faintly; yet for the life of her unable to repress that
                    tremulous smile.
                ‘Yes. Ah! my darling, you don't know what the uncertainty means to a man like I
                    am. You don't know—you don't understand. If I only had you to myself, I would
                    not fear anything. And you wouldn't, either, if I had the chance of teaching you
                    what it means to a woman to have some one
                    between her and the world—some one to hold her fast—some one—’
                She shrank now from his increasing emotion.
                ‘Don't! oh, don't! you frighten me. And don't be hurt or angry, dear. I've
                    promised to marry you sometime—I have indeed. Oh, Dan, how foolish you are!’
                She laid her delicately gloved hand on his arm, as he leant over the railings,
                    trying to hide the bitter pain her look had given him; but he only shook his
                    head.
                ‘You can't make me different from what I am,’ she went on almost pettishly; ‘you
                    can't, indeed.’
                ‘I could, if I had the chance. That is all I ask.’
                ‘And you will have it some day, Dan. Perhaps you are right, and I should be
                    happy. Only, what is the use of talking about it just now? We have settled so
                    many times that nothing can be done until your promotion comes. That will be
                    next year, won't it? if nothing goes wrong at Hodinuggur. Oh, Dan, do cheer up.
                    I have to go out to dinner, and it is getting late; but I'll drop you at the Club, if you like. I didn't mean to hurt your
                    feelings; you know that; but you are so impetuous. Dan, do come! the geese are
                    making such a noise, I can scarcely hear myself speak.’
                It was true. Something had disturbed the peace of the pond, for a confused
                    gabbling and quacking filled the air. Dan tried to fight against it for a
                    minute, then with an inward curse gave up the struggle. As they walked back to
                    the carriage Gwen felt grateful to the birds. They had saved the Capitol, for a
                    very little more of Dan's hurt feelings might have made her promise anything. It
                    was her way when brought face to face with pain. To make up for what he had
                    suffered she was very gracious to him as they strolled along the winding walks
                    set with English flowers, and the barred cages where big yellow tiger's eyes
                    gleamed out of the shadows; gleamed quite harmlessly of course. But when she
                    returned that evening to the rooms in the hotel which she occupied during the
                    winter months her mood had changed; for Lewis Gordon had been at the dinner. She
                    went over to her writing?table, took out a bundle of receipted bills and looked at it with a distaste seldom
                    displayed towards such a possession. How foolish, how wrong, how unfair to poor
                    Dan it had been to let him pay; and what a dreadful tie to her, for of course if
                    he did not get his promotion she could not possibly marry him and then the
                    obligation would be unbearable. Gwen, brooding over the situation by the fire,
                    felt aggrieved. She was one of those women who, paradoxical as it may seem, gain
                    the power of exciting passion by their own absolute lack of comprehension as to
                    its first principles. To say she had no heart would have been an unkind calumny.
                    She was really very fond of Dan; more fond of him when he was absent perhaps
                    than when he was present, but she had not the remotest conception of what his
                    love meant to him. So as she sat thinking of him in her seamless dress—Gwen's
                    evening dresses always had a seamless look, and the lace about her fair
                    shoulders always seemed pinned on with cunning little diamond brooches
                    glittering and sparkling—she told herself that it all depended on promotion, and
                    that, in its turn, depended largely on a boy whom she had never seen, who had
                    gone to live in the desert with the sole
                    purpose of forcing her to keep her promise. A queer tie indeed between that
                    branded bungalow set in the sand, and her refined little sitting?room.
                And at that moment George, pondering over a cigar in the verandah before turning
                    in, was meditating, not upon the mysterious mound of Hodinuggur, with the light
                    in the Diwan's Tower challenging the feeble flicker in the potter's house, but
                    on something far more mysterious than either—his dinner. That dinner of six
                    courses, compounded out of the desert fowl in various stages of existence, to
                    which his factotum, a man whose imaginative faculty outran his creative power,
                    had given such topsy?turvy yet familiar names. Wherefore? Why was it deemed
                    necessary to feed a sahib on salt?fish concocted out of chicken and anchovy
                    sauce, and then to give dignified support to the fraud by handing round the
                    conventional egg?sauce? George gave up the puzzle and went to bed depressed by
                    the consideration that if Hodinuggur was strange and unkenned to him, he was
                    quite as strange and unkenned to it.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER III
                CHÂNDNI was standing in her cool recesses of shadow at the farther end
                    of the gateway which adjoined the little strip of bazaar leading past the
                    palace. A bazaar but a few yards long, yet retaining in that small space a
                    specimen of all the vices which in past times had made the Moghuls of Hodinuggur
                    infamous. A couple of young men with uncovered heads were dicing on a string bed
                    thrust under a patched, dyed awning stretched from balcony to balcony. A group
                    of half?a?dozen more were quarrelling vilely over a quail fight beside the
                    liquor?seller's booth, gay in its coloured bottles. Two or three of various
                    ages, heavy with drugs, were sprawling and nodding in the gutters. Just across
                    the street a sutara?player was twanging away, and above him a girl, powdered and
                    painted, bent over the wooden balcony flinging snatches of hideous song on the passers?by, and shrieking with
                    coarse laughter at a naked monstrosity who, as he begged, made capital of his
                    misfortunes. On this girl, with her grease?smirched hair and Brummagem jewelry,
                    Chândni, from her shadows, cast glances of scorn, which she transferred after a
                    time to Dalel Beg, who sat crouched up against a plinth smoking a rank hookah
                    and sipping a ‘rajah's peg’ of brandy and champagne. He had discarded European
                    dress entirely, and the few clothes he wore smelt horribly of musk.
                Against the darkness of the arch behind her the woman's tall figure showed like a
                    white shadow. Not a scrap of colour anywhere save in her stained lips and the
                    pomegranate sprig she twirled idly in her hand. Keeping time with it to the
                    thrum of the sutara; keeping time also with a clash of the silver anklets hidden
                    by the long gauze draperies of her Delhi dress.
                ‘Yea! Dalel!’ she said mockingly, and the creamy column of her throat vibrated
                    visibly with her smooth round voice. ‘'Tis over true what the little sahib said
                    of thy coarse attempts. The pack of us are fools. The sahib? logue's drink yonder steals what brains God gave
                    thee; then Meean Khush?hâl was never aught but a big belly, and the Diwan—Heaven
                    keep him for the best of the lot—sits too high. There remains but Chândni the
                    courtesan, and she—’
                ‘Hath failed,’ broke in Dalel with a forced explosion of malicious laughter. ‘Lo!
                    thou hast not had a civil tongue for others since he flouted thee. Sure the
                    plant must be trampled in the dust ere it blossoms. Have patience, heart's
                    delight.’
                He was too weary even in his malice to seek the amusement of watching the rage
                    grow to her face as she stood behind him.
                ‘Whose fault,’ she began hotly; then with a louder clash of the anklets ended in
                    a laugh. ‘Lo! 'tis past. And what care I? 'Tis naught to me, but if the
                    treasure?chest of Hodinuggur be empty, 'tis good?bye to Chândni. She goes back
                    to Delhi.’
                ‘Nay! nay!’ whimpered Dalel with a maudlin shake of the head, as he sought
                    comfort in finishing the tumbler. ‘We will succeed yet; but the boy hath no
                    youth in his veins. I know not how to take him
                    as the others. Yet have we done our best—’
                ‘Best,’ echoed the woman scornfully. ‘Stale old tricks. A gold mohur under his
                    plate at dinner forsooth! That was soon over in a beating for the servant who
                    should have seen it put there. A dish of oranges stuffed with rupees which the
                    same servant, wise man, kept for himself. A gun he would not take! a dinner he
                    would not eat! a horse he would not ride! Even a woman he would not look at.
                    What care I? there be others who will. Stale old tricks indeed! insipid as
                    uncooled water on a summer's day, or that thing yonder’—she pointed to the
                    opposite balcony—‘compared to me. Think not I did not see thee ere I came out,
                    oh! Dalel. Not that I care. There be others, and Delhi is but a day's
                    journey.’
                ‘Mayhap the tricks are old,’ he muttered in sullen discomfiture. ‘Hast new to
                    advise?’
                She laughed. ‘Not to thee; thou hast not the wit for it. And there is naught new.
                    The crazy potter is right when he saith the world is in the dust. Sure every
                    ploughman knows, that no matter what the surface be, the sand lies under all. Thou hast but to dig deep
                    enough.’
                She had moved forward to lean against the plinth. In the action her thin
                    draperies clung to the long curve of her limbs from hip to ankle. Her right hand
                    supported her head, which was thrown back against it, so that the arm framed her
                    face. It was the attitude of the Medea in Pompeian frescoes; the face of a Medea
                    also till the downward glance of her eyes met an upward one from the
                    sutara?player. Then with a flash and a laugh the pomegranate blossom flew out
                    into the sunlight and fell at the young man's feet. Dalel clutched at her
                    savagely amid a volley of coarse English oaths.
                ‘Let me go, beloved!’ she giggled. ‘Did I not say the sand lay under all? What!
                    art jealous? jealous of Chândni the courtesan? Wouldst have me Dalelah since
                    thou art Dalel? If that be so, I will put thee in good temper again.’
                She snatched at an old banjo hanging on a nail, sank down amid her draperies like
                    a cobra on its coil, and began recklessly to sing ‘Ta?ra?ra?boom?de?ay,’ while
                    Dalel waggled his head, but half mollified.
                
                ‘Thou canst not dance it though,’ he maundered sleepily. ‘Not as 'twas pictured
                    in the pictures at the Jubilee Institute. Thou art no good at all. I will change
                    thee for a half?caste girl. Yet if there be no money in the treasury? Lo! Fate
                    is hard, and I have done my best.’
                And still the song of civilisation went on, full of incongruous barbaric
                    intervals. The girl in the balcony retreated in a huff before an accomplishment
                    unknown to her: the quail?fighters laughed at the noise. Only George Keene,
                    wandering about one of the inner courts of the palace, seeking a good spot
                    whence to sketch a certain blue?tiled mosque, found himself unconsciously
                    whistling a refrain, and paused to listen in sickening suspense. Yes, it was!
                    Fitzgerald was right when he said the country was being ruined by culture! What
                    an inconceivable, unthinkable contrast to that great ruined courtyard, its blue
                    tiles decorated in endless writing with the Attributes of God. At least how
                    inconceivable it would have been six weeks ago, when he had first seen the
                    mosque with Dan as his companion. For George Keene was becoming accustomed to being, as it were, depolarised. It
                    would have made him very angry had any one told him that Hodinuggur had already
                    altered his outlook on life, though it could scarcely have failed to do so. To
                    begin with Dalel Beg's occidental follies, grafted on to a sound stock of
                    ancestral vices, made him, as he leered over a billiard cue and tried to induce
                    George to bet, quite a startling study. Not so disturbing, however, as the
                    sober, gentle, inoffensive villagers with the confession, ‘It is God's will,’ on
                    their patient lips. Content to toil and die, smiling over the fact. Surely,
                    something ailed the terminology of religion if these were Heathen, and certain
                    Western folk in his father's suburban parish were Christians? Then there was the
                    mad potter in whose walled yard George listened to the oddest old?world tales,
                    and the Diwan with whom the lad played chess. To tell truth, he never climbed up
                    for that purpose to the tower without a breathlessness not altogether to be
                    accounted for by the steepness of the stairs. Face to face with the old man,
                    sitting still as a statue before the pieces, George felt himself face to face
                    with something he could not set aside with a sneer. Yet he might have been playing with an automaton for
                    all the interest Zubr?ul?Zamân displayed, while he, on his part, was agonising
                    in anxiety. But once his hand had left the piece, the old man's would rise from
                    his knee, hover over the board for a second, then swoop down unerringly with the
                    murmur, ‘My play is played.’ And the move generally disposed of all George's
                    deep?laid plans, for the Diwan was a passed master in chess. Yet the lad
                    returned again and again for a beating, being dogged in his turn. He was, in
                    fact, on his way from one when Chândni and the banjo started his thoughts along
                    a familiar channel. Certainly they were an odd people, and somehow it was
                    difficult to write home letters which should at once reflect the truth and give
                    satisfaction to the British public.
                Meanwhile Chândni, desisting with Dalel's first reliable snore, threw the banjo
                    aside and reviewed the position. There was no mist of reserve between her and
                    her profession. She had been born to it, as her forebears had been. Her success
                    in it was rather a matter for pride than shame; her only anxiety being the
                    future. Should she linger on as she had been
                    doing in hopes that out of sheer conservatism Dalel Beg would attach her to him
                    permanently by some of the many possible marriages? Or should she risk the life
                    of a go?between in her old age, return to Delhi and amuse herself? The
                    reappearance of the painted girl in the balcony decided her; she would not give
                    way to such creatures as that until the emptiness of the Treasury was
                    indubitable. Yet as she sat rolling the little pellets of opium for her mid?day
                    dose between her sore palms she looked at her lover distastefully. He was no
                    good, and if the sluice?gates were to be open that year she must bestir
                    herself—she and the Diwan. So much was settled before she swallowed the
                    dreamgiver and threw herself full length on the bare string bed set deep in the
                    shadows. Then the silence of noon fell on that sinful slip of bazaar. Even the
                    quails ceased to challenge from their hooded cages, and the sutara?player with
                    the pomegranate blossom stuck in behind his ear had forgotten the giver in
                    sleep. But out in the fields the peasants were at work on their scanty crops,
                    and George Keene as he entered the red brick bungalow paused to listen to a cry
                    which never failed to impress him. The cry of
                    praise to the giver with which the villagers drew water from the wells which
                    stood between them and death. Truly in that wilderness of sand, water was the
                    mother of all things. What wonder if it became the motive power in life? What
                    wonder that, like the silver sword of the big canal, it cut the world into
                    halves—the people who wanted, and the people who did not want the sluice?gates
                    opened. With a laugh at his own fancy he went in to lunch, wondering this time
                    what form the desert fowl would take: it certainly was the mother of all food!
                    Hodinuggur might have its serious aspects, but on the whole it was farcical as
                    well as tragical, and ‘Ta?ra?ra?boom?de?ay’ counterbalanced that cry of
                    thanksgiving.
                And that same evening, while he was reading the last number of the
                        Nineteenth Century in the verandah, Chândni had an interview
                    with the old Diwan on his tower, which, had George been aware of it, would have
                    seemed to him farcical beyond belief, though it was deadly earnest to the
                    actors. She sat at the old man's feet so as to be within earshot of a whisper,
                    since walls, especially in an Indian palace,
                    have ears. That was why the Diwan's chair was set out in the open under the
                    star?gemmed dome of the sky which paled to its circled setting of plain that,
                    seen from the height, seemed in its turn to curve, cup?like, to meet the sky.
                    The decent domino she had worn on her way was cast aside out of sheer coquetry,
                    so that her supple figure, unadorned save for the heavy chaplets of jasmine
                    flowers shrouding the filmy muslin, might stand outlined above the low parapet
                    among the stars. For Chândni was shrewd. The ordinary jewels of her class might
                    have aroused memories in the old man, and she wished to impress him with her
                    individuality.
                ‘Nay, daughter,’ he said approvingly, ‘I well believe failure was not thy fault.
                    As for thy plan—speak.’
                She drew her lips closer to his ear, and laid one hand on his knee, as if to hold
                    his attention.
                ‘Father! all men care for something. He cares not for what he has been given. Let
                    us try others. If they fail, well and good. Now there is one thing such as he
                    favour—God knows why?—but I have seen them myself in the bazaar at Delhi—sahibs who have come over the
                    black water to buy ragged rugs and battered brass pots. Why? Because, forsooth,
                    they are old! The crazy potter would say it was because they remember them. I
                    know not. But this boy pokes about the old things—questions of the old
                    tales.’
                Zubr?ul?Zamân nodded approval. ‘True, he favoured the Ayôdhya pot; but he
                    returned it.’
                Chândni's eyes sparkled, then fell. ‘So! that is one thing to begin with. Then he
                    is of those who watch flowers grow and birds build their nests; who paint colour
                    on paper for the love of it. Again, when the fowler fails in all else he baits
                    the snare with pity, and sets a decoy?bird a?fluttering within the net. This boy
                    gives quinine to the old wives, and fish?oil to the babes born with the Potter's
                    thumb?mark.’ Her laughter crackled joylessly.
                ‘Words—words,’ muttered the old man impatiently. ‘What wouldest thou do?’
                She drew closer, and the movement sent a wave of perfume from the jasmine
                    chaplets into the air.
                
                ‘Lend me Azizan for a week, and thou shalt see.’
                Scent, so people say, is the most powerful stimulant to bygone memories; perhaps
                    that was the reason why her words brought such a pulse of fierce life to the old
                    face. ‘Aziz! Nay! she is of the house.’
                ‘Why not say of the race, father?’ retorted Chândni coolly. ‘Nay! in such talk as
                    ours truth is best. Thinkest thou I am a fool when I go to dance and sing in the
                    women's quarter? Is it not sixteen years since the potter's daughter disappeared
                    on the night of the great storm,—hath not this fifteen?year?old the potter's
                    eyes—Heaven shield us from them!’ Her hand went out in the two?fingered gesture
                    used to avert the evil eye in West as well as East.
                Zubr?ul?Zamân scowled at her.
                ‘There be other girls and plenty; take them,’ he began. ‘Besides, she is
                    betrothed. I will not lose the dower.’
                ‘Wherefore shouldest lose it? I said a week, and Zainub, the duenna, will see to
                    safety. He will but paint her picture.’
                The Diwan spat piously. ‘And what good will such
                    accursed idol?making do?’ he asked more calmly.
                ‘'Twill bring the quarry within reach; he lives too far away now. Give me the
                    girl, my lord, else will I know that the Diwan Zubr?ul?Zamân Julâl?i?dowla
                    Mustukkul?i?jung is afraid of the potter's eyes.’
                ‘As thou art, daughter of the bazaars,’ he retorted fiercely. ‘Shall I set them
                    on thee and thine?’
                Chândni essayed an uneasy laugh. ‘I will do her no harm,’ she muttered sullenly.
                    ‘ I will not even speak to her if thou wilt. Zainub shall do all.’
                Half?an?hour afterwards Chândni, wrapped in her white domino, paused on her way
                    home at the door leading to the women's quarters and knocked. After a while an
                    old woman appeared at the latticed shutter. The courtesan whispered a word or
                    two, the door opened, and the two disappeared down a dark passage. ‘'Tis Chândni
                    come to dance.’ The whisper ran through the airless, squalid rooms, causing a
                    flutter among the caged inhabitants. Out of their beds they came, yawning and
                    stretching, to sit squatted in a circle on the
                    bare floor, and watch Chândni give a spirited imitation of the way the memsahibs
                    waltzed with the sahib?logue. It was not an edifying spectacle, but it afforded
                    infinite satisfaction to the audience. An audience which has to take its world
                    at second?hand, and in the process has grown careless as to abstract truth. The
                    young women tittered, the old ones called Heaven to witness their horror, and
                    then they all sat without winking an eye while the courtesan sang the songs of
                    her profession.
                But little Azizan's light eyes saw nothing at which to smile or to cry in either
                    performance. She was young for her years, and very sleepy; besides, she was
                    betrothed to an old man whom she had never seen, because, as all the other girls
                    took care to tell her, she really was too ugly to be kept in the family. And
                    that sort of thing takes the zest from life.
                When the entertainment was over, Chândni sat and talked with Zainub, the duenna,
                    until dawn, with that careless disregard of bed?time, which makes it quite
                    impossible to foretell at what hour of the day or night a native of India will
                    be asleep or awake.
                
                But George Keene, over the way in the branded bungalow, was safely tucked up in
                    sheets and blankets, whence nothing short of an earthquake would have roused
                    him.
                An earthquake, or else a prescience of the hideous caricature Chândni had been
                    making of the trois temps over in the
                    Palace.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IV
                GEORGE KEENE was trying to translate the cloth?of?gold sunlight into
                    cadmium yellow, with the result that the blue of the tiles in his sketch grew
                    green, and the opal on the pigeons' breasts as they sidled along the cornice,
                    was dimmed to dust colour.
                The courtyard with its blind arcades of Saracenic arches surrounding the mosque,
                    lay bare and empty, as it always did save at the hours of prayer. He looked
                    across it with a dissatisfied expression, noting the intense colour of certain
                    tiles which were mixed up with those more modern ones bearing the Arabic
                    letterings. The former reminded him of the Ayôdhya pot, and set him a?wondering
                    if he should ever have an honest chance of procuring one like his first bribe.
                    The old potter, his authority in such matters, had told him they were still to
                    be found, more or less broken, in the digging
                    of graves, or the sinking of wells. Hitherto, however, he had failed to hear of
                    one. Yet, the possibility remained, since those tiles, which must be centuries
                    older than the café chantant sort of
                    proscenium on which they were inlaid, had survived. The latter he saw clearly,
                    now he came to draw it, had been added on to an older building behind; probably
                    a Hindu temple. So, when all was said and done, that figure of a grave and
                    reverend Mohammedan moulvie, which he had intended to put in the foreground,
                    might not have so much right to be there as a priest of Baal. It was a confusing
                    country!
                When he looked up again from his work, he gave a start; for a totally unexpected
                    model was squatting on the flags of his foreground. A mere slip of a village
                    girl; and yet was she of the village? More likely a stranger—perhaps one of the
                    southern tribes of whom the potter told tales—since her dress was odd.
                It consisted of a reddish purple drapery, more like wool than cotton in texture,
                    with a stitched border in browns and creams such as the desert folk embroider on
                    their camel 
                        trap?
                        trappings
                     pings. It was an admirable piece of
                    colouring against that blue background, and he began upon it at once, reckless
                    of the averted face; for he was accustomed to be thus watched furtively from
                    afar, and knew that the least notice would end in instant flight, as of a wild
                    animal. Besides, the faces were apt to be disappointing. This one, however, was
                    not, and his first glimpse of it gave him quite a shock. Without being
                    beautiful, it was most peculiar; a golden brown face, with a long straight nose,
                    and a wide, curved mouth. Golden brown hair under the reddish purple of the
                    veil; golden brown eyes, and a golden brown arm circled with big bronze
                    bracelets stretched out so that the hand rested on—
                He gave an irrepressible exclamation and half rose from his seat. Down fell his
                    box and brushes, and over went the dirty water streaming across his hard?won
                    sunshine. He mopped at it hastily with his handkerchief—as hastily as he dared;
                    but when he looked up the girl had gone. He sat down and eyed the spot where she
                    had been suspiciously; not because of her disappearance—there had been time for
                    that—but because he was doubtful of his own
                    eyes in thinking that her hand had rested on an Ayôdhya pot. If so, what a rare
                    chance he had lost; if not, he must be going to have fever, and had better go
                    home and take some quinine. Go home, however, viâ the potter's house, and ask that inveterate gossip if he knew
                    anything of an odd?looking child with light eyes—here George gave a low whistle,
                    paused in his packing up of paint?boxes, and looked round again to where the
                    girl had squatted, feeling that it was foolish of him not to have noticed the
                    resemblance before. Doubtless the girl was a relation of some sort, though the
                    old man had always strenuously asserted that he had none living. Perhaps he had
                    meant no male ones; yet, strangely enough, Fuzl Elahi did not seem to share that
                    contempt for girls which all the other natives of George Keene's acquaintance
                    professed. He often talked about his dead daughter, and whenever he talked he
                    became excited and restless; indeed, the fear of thus arousing him made George
                    somewhat reticent in his description of the girl he had seen, which he confined
                    as far as possible to the dress.
                ‘She is not of Hodinuggur, Huzoor,’ declared the old man confidently. ‘They who
                        wear wool live far to the south. They never
                    leave the hearthstone where their fathers lie buried. 'Tis the old way, Huzoor,
                    and we of this place did it also long ago.’ Suddenly his eyes lit up, he let the
                    wheel slacken and clasped his hands closely over the dome of clay in its centre.
                    It shot up under the pressure like a fountain. ‘Perhaps the Huzoor hath seen one
                    of the old folk; they come and go, they go and come. I see them often; my
                    fathers and their fathers, but never my daughter. She will not come, she will
                    not come.’ As his voice died away the cadence of the wheel recommenced, only to
                    stop with a jar. ‘Huzoor! Have you seen her? A slip of a girl with
                    a fawn face tinted like a young gazelle's? Not black like these people—but sun
                    colour and brown—all sun colour and brown with little curls on her
                    forehead—’
                For the life of him George could not help acknowledging the thrill that ran
                    through him. The man was mad, of course, hopelessly mad; yet if he had seen the
                    girl he could scarcely have given a better description. Perhaps he had seen her,
                    knew all about her, and only pretended ignorance, to serve his own ends; that overweening desire, for instance, to pose
                    as one apart from commonplace humanity, at which George alternately laughed and
                    frowned.
                ‘Your daughter is dead, potter?ji, how can I have seen her?’ he said rather
                    brutally; yet what else was there to say with that glaring daylight shining down
                    remorselessly on the squalid reality of the scene? It was an ordinary potter's
                    yard, no more, no less; the kneaded clay on one side of the wheel, the unbaked
                    pots lying on the other. In the outer yard a couple of children were playing in
                    the dust, while their mother sought a satisfactory ring in one of the pile of
                    water?chatties before bringing it with her to haggle and bargain over the price.
                    Overhead a kite or two wheeled in circles, and down the slope, of course, lay
                    the Palace and its inhabitants; very ordinary examples of impoverished native
                    nobility in its worst aspect. So George Keene meant to be brutal, his
                    common?sense demanded it of him. But that evening, as he sat smoking as usual in
                    the verandah, he saw a light flickering about the ruins. So, despite his
                    reticence, the potter was in one of his restless moods, when he would seek for his daughter all night long, returning
                    at dawn with a handful of dust, which he would knead to clay and mould upon his
                    wheel into odd little nine?pins. Sometimes he would bury these in pairs upon the
                    mound—George had seen him doing it—more often he would give them to the village
                    children as toys. George had seen them, too, with sticks for arms and bits of
                    charcoal for eyes, doing duty as dolls. He had laughed at the oddity of it all;
                    but now in the soft darkness the thought sent that thrill through his veins once
                    more. This would never do! He had been too long mooning about Hodinuggur
                    sketching and playing chess. It was time to ride down the canal, bully the
                    workman at the brick?kilns, and have a day or two at the bustard in the desert;
                    so then and there he called to the factotum and gave his orders for breakfast to
                    be ready twenty miles off the next morning. That would settle his nerves.
                When he returned, after four days' absence, he set to work rationally to finish
                    his sketch. The cloth?of?gold sunshine was brilliant as ever, the blue tiles
                    glowed, the prismatic pigeons sidled along the
                    cornices. He told himself that Hodinuggur was not such a bad place if you
                    refused to allow imagination—
                ‘The Huzoor gives medicine to the poor,’ came a voice behind him. ‘Mother is ill;
                    I want quinine.’
                It was the girl with the Ayôdhya pot in her hand. George Keene laughed out loud
                    in the satisfaction of his heart at his own wisdom.
                ‘What is the matter with your mother?’ he asked judiciously.
                ‘She is sick, I am to get quinine,’ repeated the girl. ‘I came once before, but
                    the Huzoor jumped up; so I became frightened and ran away. Since then I have
                    come often, but the Huzoor was not here.’
                George felt vaguely that he too had run away before something ridiculously
                    commonplace and simple, and in the effort to bolster up his dignity, his tone
                    became pompous and condescending.
                ‘You are not frightened now, I hope?’
                The queerest demure look came to her downcast eyes.
                ‘Wherefore should I be afraid? The Huzoor is my father and mother.’
                
                George had heard the saying a hundred times. Even now, incongruous as it was, it
                    pleased him by its flattering recognition of the fact that his benevolence and
                    superiority were undeniable.
                ‘But, unfortunately, I don't carry quinine with me,’ he began.
                ‘If the Huzoor were to bring it to?morrow when he comes to put paints on paper,
                    his slave could return and fetch it,’ she interrupted readily. He looked at her
                    more sharply, wondering what her age might be. ‘Shall I come, Huzoor?’ she
                    continued, with a certain anxiety in her grave face.
                ‘What else?’ he answered quickly. It would suit him admirably, since he could
                    come armed with rupees wherewith to bribe the Ayôdhya pot from her, and with
                    canvas and oil?colour more suitable to the portrait which, as he looked at her
                    golden brown face and reddish purple draperies, he resolved to have. He would
                    paint her against the dark mound of the ruins rising formless and void upon a
                    sunset sky, and he would call it—
                ‘You had better tell me your name,’ he said suddenly, ‘then I shall know to whom
                        I have to send the quinine in case you
                    can't come.’
                Her white teeth flashed between the long curves of her mouth.
                ‘I am Azizan, Huzoor. I am quite sure to come, and I will bring the pot for the
                    medicine.’
                It was almost as if she had divined his intention, he thought, as he watched her
                    pass out through the gateway behind him. It was a queer chance altogether, all
                    the greater because the name Azizan was familiarly commonplace. Briefly, it
                    happened to be that of his factotum's wife. He had, of course, never seen that
                    estimable female, but he had often heard her addressed in tones of objurgation
                    when delay occurred between the courses, thus—‘Azizan! egg sarse. Azizan!
                        salt fish is not without egg sarse.’ From which George inferred that
                    she was responsible for the kitchen?maid's portion of the Barmecidal feast. The
                    remembrance made him smile as he packed up his colours, resolving to do no more
                    till he could begin in earnest on that most interesting study. He would have
                    thought it still more interesting if he could have seen it slipping into the white domino which old Zainub, the
                    duenna, held ready at the gate, where she had been warding off possible
                    intrusion by the bare truth, that one of her palace ladies was within. For the
                    custom of seclusion renders intrigue absolutely safe, since none dare put the
                    identity of a white?robed figure to the test, or pry into the privacy of a place
                    claimed by a veiled woman.
                ‘Now mind,’ scolded Zainub, as they shuffled back to the women's apartments, ‘if
                    thou sayest a word of this to the girls thou goest not again; but the old
                    bridegroom comes instead.’
                ‘I will go again,’ said the girl gravely, ‘I liked it. But the sun made my eyes
                    ache without the veil. Yes! I will go again, amma?jan’ (nursie).
                To tell the truth, she had small choice. We have all heard of an empire whereon
                    the sun never sets, and where slavery does not exist. Even those who shake their
                    heads over the former statement, applaud the latter. But slavery, unfortunately,
                    is as elusive as liberty, and when not a soul, save those interested in making
                    you obey, is even aware of your existence,
                    individual freedom is apt to be a fraud. This was Azizan's case. Born of an
                    unknown wrong, she might have died of one also, and none been the wiser. The
                    zenana walls which shut her in, shut out the penal code of the alien. If she had
                    chosen to be prudish, the alternative would have been put before her brutally;
                    but she did not choose; for naturally enough, as she said, she liked the
                    masquerade, even if the sun did make her head ache. So she sat all that
                    afternoon under the lattice?window, whence, if you stood on tiptoe, you could
                    see the flags in front of the mosque, and thought of the morrow; naturally,
                    also, since it was a great event to one who had never before set foot beyond the
                    walls of the women's quarter.
                Yet George had to wait a long time the next day ere she appeared and squatted
                    down before him confidently. ‘It was the black man who came with the Huzoor's
                    things,’ she explained quite openly. ‘Mother would not let me come while he was
                    here. The Huzoors are quite different; they are our fathers and mothers.’
                The repetition of the phrase amused George, and tickled his sense of superiority.
                        It scarcely needed stimulus, for, like most
                    of his race, he was inclined to consider the natives as automata, until personal
                    experience in each case made him admit reluctantly that they were not. So he
                    wondered vain?gloriously what certain politicians at home would say to this
                    candid distrust of the black man, produced the quinine, and then offered Azizan
                    five whole rupees if she would let him draw a picture of her, as he had of the
                    mosque.
                ‘Is that the mosque?’ she asked dubiously.
                George's reply was full of condescension, which it would not have been had he
                    looked on Azizan in the light of a girl capable, as girls always are, of
                    mischief; for the sketch was accurate to a degree. It ended in an offer of ten
                    rupees for a finished picture of that odd, attractive, yellow?brown face. It was
                    now resting its pointed chin on the tucked?up knees, round which the thin brown
                    arms were clasped; and the smile which lengthened the already long curves of the
                    mouth George set down to sheer greedy delight at an over large bribe, which, to
                    tell truth, he regretted. Half would have been sufficient.
                
                ‘Then the Huzoor must really think me pretty.’
                The words might have been bombs, the sigh of satisfaction accompanying them a
                    thunderclap, from the start they gave to his superiority. So she was nothing
                    more nor less than a girl; rather a pretty girl, too, when she smiled, though
                    not so picturesque as when she was grave.
                ‘I think you will make a pretty picture,’ he replied with dignity. ‘Come! ten
                    rupees is a lot, you know.’
                ‘I'll sit if the Huzoor thinks me pretty,’ persisted Azizan, now quite grave. And
                    her gravity, as she sat with the reddish purple drapery veiling all save the
                    straight column of her throat and the thin brown hands clasping the Ayôdhya pot,
                    appealed so strongly to George Keene's artistic sense, that he would have
                    perjured himself to say she was beautiful as a houri twenty times over if
                    thereby he could have made her sit to him.
                She proved an excellent model; perhaps because she had done little else all her
                    life but sit still, with that grave tired look on her face. So still, so
                    lifeless, that he felt aggrieved when, without
                    a word of warning, she rose and salaamed.
                ‘I must go home now, Huzoor,’ she said in answer to his impatient assertion that
                    he had but just begun. ‘I will come to?morrow if the Huzoor wishes it.’
                ‘Of course you must come,’ he replied angrily, ‘if you are to get the ten rupees.
                    Why can't you stay now?’
                Azizan might have said with truth that a hand from the gateway behind the
                    sketcher's back had beckoned to her, but she only smiled mysteriously.
                George, left behind in the sunny courtyard, looked at the charcoal smudges on his
                    canvas with mixed feelings. He had the pose; but should he ever succeed in
                    painting the picture which rose before his mind's eye? To most amateurs of real
                    talent, such as he was, there comes some special time when the conviction that
                    here is an opportunity, here an occasion for the best possible work, brings all
                    latent power into action, and makes the effort absorbing. Something of this
                    feeling had already taken possession of George; he began to project a finished
                    picture, and various methods of inducing his
                    sitter to give him more time. Perhaps she had found it dull. Native women, he
                    believed, chattered all day long. So when she came next morning, he asked her if
                    she liked stories, and when she nodded, he began straightway on his
                    recollections of Hans Andersen; choosing out all the melancholy and aggressively
                    sentimental subjects, so as to prevent her from smiling. He succeeded very well
                    so far; Azizan sat gravely in the sunshine listening, but every day she rose to
                    go with just the same sudden alacrity. Then he told her the tale of Cinderella,
                    and the necessity for her leaving the prince's ball before twelve o'clock; but
                    even this did not make Azizan laugh. On the contrary, she looked rather
                    frightened, and asked what the prince said when he found out.
                ‘He told her that he thought her the most beautiful girl in the world, so they
                    lived happy ever after,’ replied George carelessly.
                It was two nights after this incident that old Zainub the duenna paid a visit to
                    Chândni in her shadowy recesses.
                ‘What is to come of this foolishness?’ she asked crossly. ‘'Twas a week at first;
                        now 'tis ten days. She used to give no
                    trouble, and now she sits by the lattice in a fever for the next day. That is
                    the plague of girls; give them but a glimpse outside and they fret to death. So
                    I warned Meean Khush?hâl sixteen years agone, when the mother took refuge with
                    us during her father's absence on the night of the storm; but he listened not
                    when he had the excuse of the wall. Yea, that is the truth, O Chândni! 'tis well
                    thou shouldst know the whole, since thou hast guessed half. Mayhap thou wilt
                    think twice when thou hast heard. Ai! my daughter! I seem to hear her now; I
                    would not pass such another year with this one for all the money thou couldst
                    give. Nor is it safe for me, or for thee, Chândni, with those eyes in the
                    child's head. Let be—'tis no good. Would I had never consented to begin the
                    work! I will do no more.’
                ‘True!’ yawned Chândni, lounging on her bed. ‘Thou art getting old for the
                    place—it needs a younger woman. I will tell the Diwan so.’
                Zainub whimpered. ‘If aught were to come of it, 'twould be different; but thou
                        thyself hast but the hope of beguiling him
                    to some unknown snare within the walls.’
                ‘An unknown snare is the deadliest,’ laughed the other shrilly. ‘What care I for
                    the girl? 'tis something to have him meet a screened inmate of the palace day
                    after day; many things may come of that. If Azizan pines, tell her the wedding
                    is delayed; tell her anything—’
                ‘Tell her!’ broke in the old duenna between the whiffs of the hookah whence she
                    sought to draw comfort. ‘Sobhân ullah! There is too much telling as it is.
                        He tells her—God knows what!—not sensible reasonable things,
                    like the tales of a parrot, about real men and women; but upside?down rigmaroles
                    about beggar?maidens and kings and sighs without kisses. Lo! she hath them pat!
                    But now, because I bid her hold her tongue from teasing me with them when I
                    wished to sleep, she flung out her hands so, quite free like, saying if she
                    might not speak them she would think them, since they were true words. He had
                    told her, and the sahib?logue ever spake the truth.’
                Chândni burst into high pitched laughter. ‘So!
                    the little Moghulâni learns fast! 'Tis not strange, seeing the blood which runs
                    in her veins. The cross breed hath but given it strength. Lo! if this be as thou
                    sayest, she would not thank thee for stopping her ears with the cotton of
                    decency. Thus, for the eyes' sake, Zainub, thou hadst best let well alone, and
                    give the girl the rein—while thou canst.’
                In good sooth the old dame felt the truth of Chândni's words, and knew herself to
                    be between two stools. Either by interference, or non?interference, she ran the
                    risk of Azizan's anger; more, perhaps, by the latter than the former. So the
                    girl in her odd dress continued to steal out in the fresh mornings—for March had
                    come with its hot glaring noons—to sit between George and the mosque, and to
                    steal back again, obedient to that beckoning hand from the gate; Zainub's
                    authority remaining sufficient for that, backed as it was by an ill?defined fear
                    on the girl's part, lest the fate of Cinderella should befall her before the
                    proper time. There was little conversation between the odd couple; chiefly
                    because 
                        Azizan
                        Azizân
                     had none, and seemed to know nothing of her neighbours and the village. Her mother? Oh yes! she
                    was better for the quinine. She was a purdah woman, more or less, and lived
                    yonder—this with a wave of the hand palacewards. Yes! she had heard there was a
                    potter, but she had never seen him. Oh, no! they were not related. Her dress? It
                    was very old because they were very poor. Her mother had had it by her; it was
                    very ugly. She would rather have ‘Manchester’; but they—that is to say, her
                    mother—would not give it her. The Ayôdhya pot? That was old also. She had asked
                    her mother, and she was willing to sell it. When the Huzoor had finished the
                    picture her mother would come, if she were well enough, and settle the price. If
                    not, the Huzoor might go ‘yonder’ and speak to her mother. The Huzoors were
                    their fathers and mothers. It was not like a black man. This much, no more,
                    George gleaned during the morning hours which passed so swiftly for them both.
                    He in a novel absorption and pride in the success of his own work. She? It is
                    hard to say. She sat listening, while the pigeons sidled and coo'd, the blue
                    tiles glowed, and the blind arcades shut out
                    all the world save George and his stories. They were of the simplest, most
                    uncompromising nature; partly because his sense of superiority made him stoop,
                    perhaps unnecessarily, to Azizan's level; partly because his knowledge of the
                    language, though long past the stuttering stage, did not extend to niceties of
                    emotion. But loving was loving, hating was hating, when all was said and done.
                    Sometimes the crudity of his own words made the lad smile, as, by the aid of his
                    own complexity, he recognised how entirely they dealt in first principles; and
                    then Azizan would smile too, not from comprehension, but from first principles
                    also. The woman's smile born of the man's.
                It was different, however, when he laid down his brush with an elated laugh.
                    ‘There! that's done! and you have sat like—like anything. Earned your ten rupees
                    and—Azizan! my dear little girl—what is the matter?’
                First principles with a vengeance, and the sunlight turning tears to diamonds as
                    they rolled down those sun?coloured cheeks! He rose, divided between pity and
                        impatience, and stood looking at her almost
                    incredulously. ‘Come, don't cry—there's nothing to cry about. Look! how pretty
                    you are in the picture; but it wouldn't have been half so pretty if you hadn't
                    sat so still. I owe you more than the ten rupees, Azizan, and that's a fact.
                    What shall it be—money or jewels? What would you like best?’
                She did not answer, and with the same careless superiority he stooped and turned
                    her downcast face to his; he was used to turning it this way or that at his
                    pleasure. But this somehow was different; so was the sun?colour and brown he
                    saw. Sun?colour indeed! He was only one?and?twenty, and the brightness and the
                    glamour which seemed to fall in a moment on everything, as he saw the
                    heart?whole surrender of her eyes, dazed him utterly; only one?and?twenty, and
                    he had never before seen such a look as this that came to him from the
                    sun?coloured face; but it was brown also! Truth is truth. It was not a sense of
                    duty, it was a sense of colour which prevented him from kissing it then and
                    there. So much may be said for him and his morality, that the difference between
                    a brown and a white skin was the outward sign
                    of the vast inward gulf between sentiment and sheer passion. The transition was
                    too abrupt; for the time it shocked his culture, and brought a look to his face
                    before which poor little Azizan gave a cry, and fled, just as she had fled on
                    that first day when George had spilled the dirty water over the sunshine. He had
                    spilled it now with a vengeance, and—over the sunshine of her face, sent
                    shame—needless shame. ‘Azizan!’ he called after her, his pulses bounding and
                    beating, ‘Azizan!’
                Then he paused, since she would not; and told himself that there was no need for
                    pursuit. She would come back, for there, as she had left it, lay the Ayôdhya
                    pot. Yes! she must come back. He could scarcely think of her without it clasped
                    in her thin hands; so silent—yet all the time—? He gave a little laugh, tender,
                    half regretful. Dear little Aziz! What a brute, what a fool he had been to bring
                    that look to her face! His brain was in a whirl; he could think of nothing save
                    her shy, confident eyes, and ask himself if, when all was said and done, that
                    world beyond the desert held anything better despite its palaver and pretension? Did it not come back in the end to the
                    old ways, to the first principles? He laughed recklessly at his own thoughts
                    more than once as, scarcely seeing the ground beneath his feet, he made his way
                    homewards to the branded red brick bungalow.
                The factotum was standing in the verandah.
                ‘The mem?sahib is waiting for the Huzoor,’ he said calmly.
                ‘The mem! what mem?’
                ‘This slave knows not. She came half an hour gone, and said she would await the
                    Huzoor's return.’
                ‘Wait! where?’
                The man pointed to the sitting?room. ‘In there, Huzoor. She has since fallen
                    asleep in the sahib's arm?chair.’
                George stared helplessly at the bamboo?screen which, hanging before the open
                    door, prevented him from seeing inside. Who could it be? Rose Tweedie? The mere
                    thought sent the first blush of the morning to his cheek, by bringing him back
                    with a round turn to civilisation.
                ‘Here! take these things,’ he said, thrusting the picture and the pot hastily
                    into the servant's hand; ‘and see!—wipe my
                    boots—they are not fit to be seen.’
                And as the factotum carefully brushed the dust of Hodinuggur from George's feet,
                    the latter had forgotten everything in wonder as to who the ‘mem’ could possibly
                    be.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER V
                A LADY, whom he had never seen before, fast asleep in his arm?chair;
                        the arm?chair of bachelor's quarters, which, having served as a
                    deck lounge on the way out, brings a solitary luxury afterwards to the bare
                    sitting?room.
                Its present occupant appeared to find it comfortable, for she did not stir. It
                    must be confessed, however, that there was not much to disturb even a light
                    sleeper, for George's entrance was shy, and his surprise sufficient to petrify
                    him for a time. She was dressed in a riding?habit, and a pair of neatly?booted
                    feet rested on the only other chair in the room. Evidently she had made herself
                    quite at home, for a helmet and veil lay with her gloves familiarly beside the
                    cup and saucer set out on the table for the young man's breakfast. Altogether
                    there was an air of easy proprietorship about the figure which lay with throat
                        and cheek sharply outlined against the
                    Turkey red cushions; one hand tucked behind the fair, rumpled hair, the other
                    resting slackly on the knee. It increased George Keene's shyness by making him
                    feel an intruder even in his own room, and without a word he turned,
                    instinctively, to leave it. As he did so a glitter on the floor at his feet made
                    him stoop to find a diamond pin. He stepped aside to lay it out of harm's way on
                    the mantelpiece, and in so doing caught a closer view of the half?averted
                    face.
                When he slipped out again into the verandah, he stood with his hands in his
                    pockets and whistled softly; it was a habit of his when taken aback. A most
                    surprising adventure indeed! An Englishwoman—a perfectly beautiful one into the
                    bargain—at Hodinuggur alone! How on earth had she come there? From Rajpore,
                    seventy odd miles of sheer desert to the north, or from the south? The Chief's
                    camp had arranged to cross the sandy strip in that direction, perhaps on its
                    return to look in on Hodinuggur, but that did not account for her being
                    alone.
                The factotum having disappeared into the
                    cook?room, George, in order to avoid calling, strolled thither, intent on
                    further information. In so doing he became aware of his groom at work on a
                    strange horse. The Huzoor was right, said the man with a grin, it was the mem's,
                    and was it to have three or four pounds of grain? George, noticing the little
                    Arab's hanging head, suggested a bran mash, and went on feeling as if he had
                    tumbled into another person's dream. Yet no more was to be discovered. The mem
                    had come, sent her horse round, and gone to sleep in the sahib's arm?chair.
                    Furthermore, what did the Huzoor mean to do about his breakfast?
                George, who, to tell truth, was beginning to feel the pangs of hunger, hesitated
                    between awaking his guest and taking his bath. He chose the latter alternative,
                    moved thereto by the remembrance that he would be none the worse for a clean
                    collar and what he termed ‘all that sort of thing’; but half an hour afterwards,
                    when he returned to the verandah with the refreshingly clean look of a
                    newly?tubbed young Englishman, the situation had not improved. It had become
                    worse, for, while the lady still slept, George
                    felt ravenous; nor could he turn to his pipe as a palliative lest she should
                    wake suddenly to find him reeking of tobacco—for he had always been a bit of a
                    dandy, and fastidious over such things. This did not prevent him from feeling
                    injured. No woman, be she ever so beautiful, had a right to take possession of a
                    fellow's breakfast as she had done; and yet it was not so much her fault as the
                    detestable Indian lack of pantries and larders, which led to every plate and
                    knife, every eatable, save the desert?fowl in the cook?room, being, as it were,
                    under the immediate guardianship of the Sleeping Beauty. Even if the
                    store?closet had been in the bedroom, he might have ‘vittled free’ off sardines
                    and captain's biscuit. And still she slept. At last, in sheer desperation, he
                    determined to wake her; and, raising the screen, was beginning a preparatory
                    cough, when the sight of the breakfast?table suggested the possibility of a
                    raid. The next instant his shoes were off and the boyhood in him uppermost, as
                    he stole in, his eyes on the sleeper. ‘A good conscience, and no mistake,’ he
                    thought, as he annexed the loaf and a tin of sardines. ‘One of the seven
                    sleepers, surely!’ This as he passed more
                    leisurely to a pat of butter and a knife and fork; these he piled on the loaf,
                    with a spoonful or two of marmalade. Apparently she had no intention of
                    awakening for days! This thought led to a cup and some tea from the canister,
                    finally to a milk jug; the latter proving fatal, for in retiring backward with
                    his spoil through the screen, its contents dribbled on to his best suit, and the
                    effort to prevent this, over?balanced the spoon of marmalade, which fell with a
                    clatter.
                Some people wake to the full enjoyment of their faculties, and with the first
                    glance of those grey?blue eyes, George saw that concealment—with half the
                    breakfast?table clasped to his bosom—was impossible. He blushed furiously, and
                    began to apologise; which was foolish, since excuses, if due at all, were
                    clearly owed by the sleeper. She did not, however, make any.
                ‘How kind of you not to disturb me before, Mr. Keene,’ she interrupted in a
                    charming voice. ‘Have you been in long?’
                Her coolness increased his apologies, making him assert on the contrary, he had
                    but just returned. Only being rather in a hurry for his breakfast—
                
                ‘Apparently,’ she interrupted again. ‘Dear me, what a very miscellaneous meal it
                    would have been! But, as I am awake, hadn't you better put it all down before
                    the marmalade runs into the sardines? Then, as I am quite as hungry as you can
                    possibly be, you might tell the man to bring breakfast.’
                George, if a trifle taken aback by her nonchalance, felt grateful for the
                    opportunity, given with such easy grace, of getting at his shoes again before
                    beginning explanations. On his return he noticed that she, also, had made use of
                    the time to tidy her hair and restore a general daintiness of appearance. As he
                    entered she was stooping to look under the table as if to seek something she had
                    lost.
                ‘It is a little diamond pin,’ she said; ‘I left it here with my gloves.’
                ‘No,’ he answered quickly, off his guard. ‘It was on the floor—I mean—I—I think
                    it is on the mantelpiece.’
                ‘Thanks, so much!’ She took it gravely ere going back to the arm?chair. Then she
                    looked up at him archly.
                ‘Was I snoring dreadfully when you came in first, Mr. Keene?’
                
                For the third time since he had become aware of her presence he blushed.
                ‘Snoring?—oh dear no,’ he began angrily.
                ‘That is a relief. I was afraid I must have been, to make you perjure yourself
                    so. As if any sane woman could believe that you went about Hodinuggur in that
                    costume! I believe you have been in for hours and hours, and I'm so sorry, Mr.
                    Keene; but you will forgive me when you hear my tale of woe.’
                George, with an odd little rapture at the thought, told himself he could forgive
                    her anything because she was so beautiful.
                ‘I'm Mrs. Boynton,’ she went on; ‘you will have heard of me, I expect, from
                    Rose?’
                He told her that he had heard of her from most people at Rajpore, which was the
                    truth; but he did not say, which was also the truth, that their praises of her
                    looks seemed to him miserably inadequate. No doubt, however, she saw this in his
                    eyes, though she had too large an acquaintance with the expression to take any
                    interest in it. Nice boys always admired her immensely, and this one looked very
                    nice, with the beauty of cleanliness on him from head to foot, so she detailed
                        her adventures with that confidence in
                    sympathy and help which is such a charm to very young men. To say sooth George
                    deserved it, for he was one of those who are born to stand between their
                    women?folk and that necessity for taking the initiative which—pace the strong?minded sisters—most women cordially
                    detest, and which is the cause of half the nervous exhaustion of the present
                    age. So after a very short time he took possession of her future even more
                    decidedly than she had taken possession of his bungalow. Briefly, the case lay
                    thus. Colonel Tweedie's camp, owing to the increasing heat, had changed its
                    route slightly, and was due, as the incoming post would doubtless let George
                    know, at Hodinuggur next morning. To do this it had doubled up two marches
                    across the desert into one, so as to include some inspection work before turning
                    at right angles along the canal. Owing to this and some good sport on the way,
                    every one had started by daybreak through the Bâr; that is to say, hard waste
                    land dotted with tufts of grey caper?bushes, and stunted trees, just high enough
                    and thick enough to prevent one seeing more than twenty or thirty yards in any direction, since beyond that the clumps became
                    a continuous hedge shutting out the world. Colonel Tweedie and his immediate
                    staff having ridden on in haste, the shooting party, beguiled by the prospect of
                    bustards, had spread themselves through the jungle on one side of the track,
                    followed by their horses and grooms. Mrs. Boynton, however, preferring such road
                    as there was, had been walking her horse along it in the expectation of being
                    rejoined, when the sudden firing of an unseen gun made her Arab bolt. First
                    along the track, then missing it at a bend, the beast had swerved into some
                    bushes, where a thorny branch had caught in his long tail, making him perfectly
                    unmanageable. After a mile or more, he had apparently broken into the track
                    again, and sobered down to a walk, much to her delight. Then a solitary native
                    traveller had passed, and assured her, as she imagined, that she was right for
                    the sahib?logue's camp; so she had trotted on, until, fearing she might lose the
                    track once more, she had been foolish enough to walk her horse back on its
                    traces, thus completely losing all her bearings. Finally, at a fork in the almost invisible path, she had been
                    forced to confess that she had not the least idea in which direction her
                    destination lay, north or south, east or west; the sun, therefore, being of
                    little use to her as a guide. (Here her pretty smile growing a trifle tremulous,
                    made George profusely indignant with the desert.) Then, regaining her head, she
                    remembered to have heard Mr. Fitzgerald—who, as Mr. Keene would know, had of
                    course joined the camp on its entrance into the division—say that the more open
                    country lay eastward, and so she had ridden as straight as she could into the
                    shadows, that being her best chance of steering aright. (Here George grew
                    clamorous over her courage.) Nevertheless, it had almost failed, she said, when
                    on a sudden the great silver streak of the canal had appeared from among the
                    bushes, and she had ridden along its banks till she came to a treeless waste
                    with a big mound looming in the far distance.
                ‘I knew it must be Hodinuggur,’ she finished with a sort of caress to her own
                    comfort among the pillows, ‘by Mr. Fitzgerald's description, and I knew you from
                    Rose Tweedie's, so I felt it was all right.
                    And now, Mr. Keene! don't you wonder I didn't snore, considering I had been in
                    the saddle for eight hours?’
                George protested it was virtue itself for her to wake at all; but that she would
                    have the whole day to rest, as it was manifestly impossible for her to return to
                    the camp; absurd also, since the latter was to come on to Hodinuggur next day.
                    So he would send to the Diwan and borrow a camel sowar, who would ride over with
                    a note telling of her safety in the bungalow, and asking for anything she might
                    require. For the rest, all he had was at her service.
                ‘But I shall be turning you out of house and home, shan't I?’ she asked
                    kindly.
                The young fellow's eyes softened. ‘I don't think I ever thought of it as a home
                    before,’ he said with an embarrassed laugh at his own words; ‘but won't you come
                    to breakfast? It's awfully nasty, I'm afraid—’
                ‘Then we can fall back on the sardines and the marmalade,’ she interrupted
                    gravely. This gravity was with her a perfect art, and gave a great charm to her
                    gentle raillery.
                Perhaps the food was nasty; if so, George, for
                    one, did not mind except for her sake. He thought of nothing but her comfort; of
                    how he could welcome her to take possession of everything, himself included. Was
                    she not the most beautiful, the most fascinating, the most perfect woman he had
                    ever seen? Did she not deserve the best he could give her? So, while she was
                    writing the note for the camel sowar, George slipped away to give instructions
                    to the factotum. The bedroom must be swept and garnished, and the things pitched
                    away anywhere. The drawers must be re?papered, a towel put on the
                    dressing?table, and—What a beastly hole it was, he thought ruefully as he left
                    the man to his own devices; but half an hour afterwards his face cleared; for
                    the factotum, having been in good services, had risen to the occasion. Not only
                    was there a towel on the dressing?table, but two empty beer?bottles had been
                    modestly draped into candlesticks, with the gilt ends of the pugree he had
                    received from the Diwan, while the remainder of the muslin was festooned about
                    the looking?glass. Azizan's portrait stood on the mantel?shelf with the Ayôdhya
                    pot in front, and two dinner plates on either side, the arrangement being completed by two of his best
                    ties knotted in bows about his hunting crop, and the kitchen fan. A tinsel veil,
                    borrowed from the compounder of egg?sarse, did duty as a
                    bed?spread, supported by his Cooper's Hill tennis muffler as an antimacassar. In
                    the middle of the room the factotum still lingered, benign and superior, one
                    hand holding a hammer and tacks, the other a pair of striped silk socks, with
                    the decorative effect of which he was evidently enamoured. In addition, a figure
                    swathed in white sa modestly behind the dressing?room door.
                ‘It is my house,’ said the man, with a large smile. ‘Since it is not to be
                    tolerated that the abode of princes should lack a female slave, the woman, at my
                    command, takes the part of ayah. The Huzoor may rest satisfied. Azizan's
                    knowledge of the mems equals this slave's of the sahibs.’
                Azizan! The smile left George's lips at the name; and before leaving the room he
                    thrust the portrait into a cupboard, replacing it by an illuminated text which
                    was lying neglected under a pile of wire cartridges.
                ‘The Huzoor is right,' declared the 
                        fac?
                        factotum
                     totum cheerfully. ‘The mems have
                    them ever in their rooms. Lo! nothing is amiss.’
                George, as he turned at the door for a last look, felt that the advice, ‘Forsake
                    not the assembling of yourselves together’ emblazoned in Gothic characters,
                    holly, and mistletoe, which a maiden aunt had sent him as a Christmas present,
                    did indeed put the finishing touch to the solitude of the wilderness.
                ‘But where are you going?’ asked Gwen.
                ‘I? Oh! they'll give me quarters in the palace, I expect. Perhaps I'd better go
                    over now and see about it. Then I've inspection work, and—and a heap of other
                    things. So perhaps I'd better say good?bye. I've told the servants about lunch
                    and all that sort of thing. And your traps will be here before dark.’
                A very nice boy, indeed, thought Mrs. Boynton, and showed her thought. So George
                    went over to the palace feeling quite intoxicated because he had been instructed
                    without fail to dine in his own house; and after he had settled about his
                    quarters with Dalel, and had ridden off on his fictitious tour of inspection, he
                    dug the spurs into his pony out of sheer lightness of heart, and went sailing away over the desert, careless even of the
                    direction in which he went.
                Dalel meanwhile had repaired to the shadowy arches in a state of boastful
                    superiority. His friend Keene was coming over to stop in the palace. They would
                    play cards, and be jolly, and drink. And the lad always carried the key of the
                    sluice?gate on his watch?chain.
                ‘It is a chance indeed,’ said Chândni, with a queer look. Then after a time broke
                    in on Dalel's vapourings by snatching the banjo from the wall and breaking into
                    a respectable and plaintive love?song.
                ‘Lo! thou hast thy way, and I have mine,’ she laughed recklessly. ‘Let us see who
                    succeeds best.’ So slipping on the decent white domino, she set off for the
                    palace, and turned down the dark passage leading to the women's apartments.
                    Doubtless it was a chance which must not be neglected.
                Between his desire not to disturb Mrs. Boynton's kindness too early, and his
                    dislike to becoming a prey to Dalel at the palace, George in the end had to
                    gallop his pony the last four miles, and then found 
                        him?
                        himself
                     self with but ten minutes in which
                    to dress. But he dashed up the narrow stair leading to the odd little arcaded
                    room placed at his disposal by the Diwan, feeling confident in the factotum's
                    forethought; and, sure enough, on the silk coverlet of the high lacquered bed
                    lay his dress?clothes and white tie complete. Nothing else, except his
                    sleeping?suit; so, choice being denied him, he flung himself into ceremonious
                    black, discovering as he did so that two or three jasmine blossoms and a sprig
                    of maidenhair fern had been pinned into the button?hole of his coat. The
                    factotum was evidently determined he should play the right game. As he ran down
                    the stairs again he wondered whence the man could possibly have procured the
                    fern, and then remembered having seen a few fronds clinging, far down on the
                    masonry of his well, into which the canal water filtered. The seed of this
                    hill?born plant must have filtered with it; just as these strange items of
                    knowledge—the shibboleth of dress?clothes and button?holes—filtered into the
                    brains of these odd people. Life in Hodinuggur was really very amusing, and full
                    of delightful surprises. Yesterday he had been waiting— without a collar!—for a Barmecidal feast, to?day in
                    swallow?tail and a button?hole he was going to dine with the most beautiful
                    woman in the world! and there, like a fairy tale, was the branded bungalow
                    illuminated out of all recognition. And inside were more wonders in a table set
                    out with flowers, and Mrs. Boynton coming forward to greet him with a bouquet of
                    jasmine and maidenhair amid the soft ruffles of her white dress—humiliating yet
                    still amusing, having to confess it came, not from his courtesy, but the
                    factotum's sense of duty. Then the very sight of the man himself, in spotless
                    raiment, lording it over Mrs. Boynton's kitmutgâr was pure comedy. In fact when,
                    dinner being over, George was left face to face with three napkin?swathed black
                    bottles hung with foolscap tickets of port, sherry, claret, engrossed in the
                    village schoolmaster's best hand, he gave one look at Mrs. Boynton before
                    exploding into laughter, while she vowed to keep the ménu to her dying day, if only to show the folly of allowing
                    facts to interfere with fancy.
                Then by?and?bye, when coffee came in—the factotum diffident over the breakfast
                    cups but triumphant over the under?footman
                    with hot milk and sugar on a dinner?plate—they laughed again; yet the laughter
                    brought a moisture to George Keene's merry grey eyes. In a vague way the boy
                    knew what had happened, knew that the most beautiful woman in the world had not
                    only taken possession of house and home, but of body and soul; and he was glad
                    of it, despite the moisture in his eyes—glad to the heart's core as he chattered
                    away confidentially, while she listened graciously, thinking what a charming boy
                    he was, and what an excellent husband he would make by?and?bye for any girl.
                    What an admirable son?in?law, in short, he would have made if she had had a
                    daughter and he had had money; for women of her sort view mankind chiefly from
                    the matrimonial point of view, and seek to give variety to the question by
                    importing into it all their female friends.
                ‘That reminds me,’ she said, as she listened to the hope that she was fairly
                    comfortable which George tacked on to his good?night. ‘You have the most
                    fascinating blue pot on your mantelpiece. Where did you get it?’
                ‘Do you really like it?’ he asked eagerly; ‘if so, you can have it.’
                
                ‘My dear boy!’ she laughed, ‘I don't mean to appropriate everything
                    you possess.’
                He looked at her with shining happy eyes. ‘But it isn't mine as yet; it belongs
                    to some one, though, who wants to sell it, and if you would give it to me, now,
                    I'd finish the bargain to?morrow morning and you shall have it back by
                    breakfast?time if it is to be had for love or money.’ Love or money! The old
                    formula came carelessly to his lips.
                Azizan meanwhile, crouching behind one of the palace arcades, and wondering when
                    she would hear his foot on the stairs, was echoing the thought in another
                    language. She was trembling all over from excitement, and fear, and hope; of
                    what, she scarcely knew, she did not understand. They had dressed her in her
                    best beneath the flimsy white veil which pretended to conceal the finery it
                    really enhanced, and surely, she thought, if he had deemed her pretty when in
                    that dreadful old shroud, he would be still kinder now. They had bidden her ask
                    for the Ayôdhya pot, and take him to settle the price with her mother. But of
                    doing this she was not sure; she was sure of nothing save that she must see him
                    again—must see him to make certain that he was
                    not vexed. And then she would tell him that traps were being laid for him—at
                    least she might tell him—but come what might she must see him; ay, and he must
                    see her as she ought to be seen.
                Not a very safe interruption for George to have found awaiting him in the long
                    moonlit shadows of the arcades had he been in the same mood as the girl; not
                    even though all the plotting and scheming would have seemed incredibly absurd to
                    him at any time, and in any mood. Indeed, even by the dim light of the
                    cook?room, where the factotum was putting away a copy of the ménu among his certificates as proof positive of
                    his acquaintance with the appetites of the ruling race, Chândni's snare would
                    have met with the derision it deserved; but in the dark intricacies of palace
                    politics it seemed simple enough, especially to one of her vile experiences.
                But George never went near the palace. He sat on the canal bridge till dawn,
                    smoking one pipe after another, and looking aimlessly, dreamily at the dark
                    windows of the bungalow. No one could have foreseen this, not even the lad
                    himself. He had no intention of out? watching
                    the stars when the balmy air and a feeling of measureless content first tempted
                    him to pause and set aside the forgetfulness of sleep for a time—or would it
                    have been sleep when she was in the desert alone with God knows
                    what ruffians about? A rage grew up in him at the thought of Dalel and his kind,
                    until the palace itself became distasteful. So, almost before he realised that
                    he was on the watch, the gurglings of many camels and the thud of a mallet told
                    him that the advanced guard of the big camp had arrived, and sent him across to
                    the camping ground to warn the tent pitchers to be as quiet as possible. ‘May
                    the angels of the Lord pitch their tents around us this night’ used to be the
                    favourite bidding prayer of a certain Scotch divine when he ministered to a
                    volunteer congregation, until one day a veteran happening to be there said
                    audibly, ‘Then I'm hopin' they'll no mak muckle noise wi' the tent?pegs.’ A tale
                    which shows the danger of imperfect local colouring; a fact which was to be
                    brought home that night both to Dalel and Chândni, for even then George did not
                    return to the champagne and the snares. That
                    incomprehensible love of the picturesque on which the latter had counted, kept
                    him engrossed in the novel sight of a canvas city rising like magic from the
                    bare sand. First came an autocrat with measuring tape and pegs mapping the
                    ground into squares; then, one by one, in its appointed place, a great ghost of
                    a thing flapping white wings against the purple sky, to rise stiff and square
                    above a fringe of even silvery ropes.
                It was not until a saffron?coloured glint in the east startled him into the
                    thought that he was a confounded ass, that George, out of sheer
                    lightheartedness, ran all the way back to the palace, stumbled up the steep
                    stairs, and threw himself into the high lacquered bed to fall asleep before the
                    saffron had faded into daylight. Perhaps it was as well, since even the
                    Hodinuggur sun, which had been at work since the beginning of all things, might
                    have stared to see a masher in dress clothes knocking into a Moghul palace with
                    the milk. It stared instead at a more familiar sight; at a girl, face down on a
                    bare string bed in the women's quarters, sobbing as if her heart would
                    break.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VI
                NATURALLY enough George overslept himself. Naturally also he woke to
                    feel himself hustled and bustled, for he was due to meet the incoming camp at
                    the borders of his district at a certain hour; a feeling he proceeded to vent on
                    the factotum for being late with the early tea which that worthy had had carried
                    over from the bungalow in an odd little procession, tailing off to some of the
                    large?eyed village lads and lasses learning betimes the customs of their rulers.
                    Then George had promised an answer about the Ayôdhya pot, and now, even by
                    hurrying, which he loathed, he could scarcely find time to seek Azizan in the
                    old place. Still he did hurry, and leaving the camel which he was to ride
                    gurgling in the courtyard, wasted five minutes in tramping up and down the flags
                    in front of the mosque; finally, in vexation, returning by the short cut through
                    the bazaar. In these early hours it had a
                    deserted, yet still dissipated air, the few loungers looking as if they had been
                    up all night. Only the quails challenged cheerfully from their shrouded cages.
                    In the arched causeway, however, he came on Dalel Beg, most offensively European
                    in costume and manner; for he too was bound on reception?duty.
                ‘Aha! Keene, old chappie,’ he began with a leer, ‘you sleep well after
                    burra?khana (big dinner) with the mem. By Jove, you keep it up late.’
                George could scarcely refrain from kicking him then and there. But the thought
                    that these people had possibly put their own construction on his absence from
                    the palace made him feel hot and cold with rage and regret. To avoid the
                    subject—the only course open to him—he hastily held out the Ayôdhya pot which he
                    was carrying, and asked the Mirza if he had any idea to whom it belonged.
                Now the Mirza's oblique eyes had been on it from the first; but at the question
                    they narrowed to mere slits of compressed cunning.
                ‘Ah, so! very good. I know. Yes, yes! it belong to you, Keene, of course. Bah!
                        it is worth nothing. I hate old trumpery
                    matters. You are very welcome.’
                ‘You mistake, sahib,’ retorted George haughtily, ‘this does not, did not belong
                    to your grandfather; it belongs to an old woman who lives near the palace. She
                    promised to sell it to me, and now I'm rather in a hurry to complete the
                    bargain. Mem Boynton sahiba wants it, and they leave to?morrow or next day.’
                Dalel Beg, who had been turning the pot over and over in his hand, laughed.
                ‘So you say it is another—’
                ‘Certainly it is another,’ interrupted George, annoyed beyond measure by his
                    manner; ‘it belongs, as I said, to an old woman. She has a daughter called
                    Azizan—’ he paused, doubtful of putting Dalel on any woman's track.
                ‘Azizan!’—the Mirza signed his attendants to fall back with unwonted decision
                    before he went on,—‘Azizan! tell me, Keene, a young girl? with eyes of light
                    like potter's?’
                Evidently he knew something of, and was interested in the girl, and George, now
                    that it was too late, regretted having mentioned her name.
                
                ‘Can't wait any longer now, I'm afraid,’ he replied, glad of the excuse; ‘just
                    send one of your fellows up to my quarters with the pot, will you? Thanks, I've
                    no time to lose.’
                Left thus cavalierly, Dalel Beg scowled after the young Englishman; then with a
                    compendious oath turned back to the side door whence he had emerged, and,
                    stumbling in his anger up the dark stairs, appeared again in Chândni's presence.
                    He almost flung the pot beside her as she lay curled up on her bed, and then,
                    driven to words by her arrogant silence began a volley of furious questions.
                What mischief had the woman been up to? How came it that the English cub had seen
                    Azizan? Azizan, who after all was his half?sister, one of the race, though they
                    did keep her out of his sight. And that oaf, that infidel—. His wrath was real,
                    for beneath the veneer of modern thought the fierce jealousy of the Moghul lay
                    strong as ever.
                Chândni gave a jeering laugh, ‘Thou art too handsome for the maidens, oh Dalel;
                    too wicked also even for the race. Thou needest one like me to keep thee
                    straight. Lo! there is nothing to know, nothing to tell. Hadst asked last night, the answer might have been other. I
                    set a snare and it failed; for thou wert right—the boy is no boy, but a milksop.
                    May fate send him death and us a black man in his place, else I stop not
                    here!’
                Her jingling feet struck the ground with a clash and she yawned again. In truth
                    she was tired of Hodinuggur, and longed for the Chowk at Delhi. Dalel, with a
                    sneer adulterating his frown, looked at her vengefully, ‘Wâh! thou art a poor
                    creature, putting the blame on others, after woman's way. Thy wiles are useless,
                    forsooth, because the boy is a milksop. Then a strange mem comes and he sits
                    drinking wine—my wine, look you, for his servant required it of me—until the
                    dawn; then comes home tipsy after losing himself among the tent?pegs.’
                This was Dalel's version of the incident. It interested his hearer into provoking
                    details by denial.
                ‘It is a lie,’ she said calmly.
                ‘Daughter of the bazaars, 'tis true! did I not wait till nigh three with
                    champagne and devil?bone, yet he came not? Did not his servant tell me but now I
                    had stinted them in wine? Did not the tent pitchers say he wandered as a madman among the pegs? Was he not at
                    me, even now, to get this pot for this mem, this woman?’ So far his anger had
                    swept him past its first cause; now he remembered and harked back to it. ‘How
                    came he by the pot, I say? how hath he seen a woman of our race?’
                ‘Ask the Diwan,’ she replied coolly; ‘for me that measure is over, I will dance
                    to another tune.’ And as she spoke, though her feet scarcely shifted, a new
                    rhythm came to these jingling bells. ‘'Tis odd,’ she murmured in a singing tone,
                    as she lifted the pot and held it out at arm's?length, ‘we come back to this old
                    thing at every turn, and now his mem wants it. Leave it with me a space, O Mirza
                    Dalel Beg. I will set it yonder in the niche where I take the seed of dreams; it
                    may bring wisdom to them.’
                Dalel gave a contemptuous grunt.
                ‘Thou art no better than an old spay?wife with thy dreams and omens and fine
                    talk. Sure the Hindu pig, from whom I took thee, hath infected thee with his
                    idolatrous notions—’
                ‘See, I go not back to them and him,’ she
                    interrupted quickly, ‘leave it, I say, if thou art wise. If the sahib seek it of
                    thee, say one of thy women knows the owner and makes arrangement. 'Tis true, and
                    thou lovest the truth, O Dalel.’
                As usual, her recklessness cowed him, and when he had gone and she sat rolling
                    the opium pellets in her palms, the Ayôdhya pot lay in the niche. Something had
                    declared in its favour, and wisdom lay in humouring the mysterious will which
                    nine times out of ten insisted on playing the game of life in its own fashion.
                    Then she lay back half asleep, half awake, her hands clasped behind her smooth
                    head, her eyes fixed on the shifting pattern beneath the glaze. The sun climbing
                    up sent a bar of shine through a chink in the balcony roof. It slanted into the
                    recesses, undulated over her curved body and reaching the niche made the Ayôdhya
                    pot glow like a sapphire. But by this time Chândni was dreaming so she did not
                    hear the merry laughter of a cavalcade passing through the Mori gate on its way
                    to the canvas city in the camping ground. A cavalcade of aliens, with Rose
                    Tweedie on a camel, her English side?saddle,
                    perched on the top of a native pad, giving her such height that she was forced
                    to stoop.
                ‘Another inch, Miss Tweedie,’ cried George gaily, ‘and you would have had to
                    dismount; you will have to cultivate humility before trying Paradise!’
                ‘Sure Miss Rose is an angel already,’ put in Dan Fitzgerald.
                But Lewis Gordon rode gloomily behind; partly because he himself was in a
                    shockingly bad temper, partly because the camel he rode was a misanthropist. And
                    these two causes arose the one from the other, since it was not his usual mount.
                    That, when Rose Tweedie had taken advantage of Mrs. Boynton's absence to desert
                    the dhoolies which were the only alternative conveyance across this peculiarly
                    sandy march, had been impounded for the young lady on account of its easy paces.
                    He remembered those paces ruefully, as, with low?pitched indignation he wondered
                    why she could not have stuck to the more ladylike dhooli. Yet she looked well on
                    the beast and rode it better than most men would have done on a first trial;
                    than he would, at any rate. But these were aggravations, not palliations, of her
                        offence; still, when, on dismounting, she
                    came straight up to him, her natty top?boots in full evidence, the huge sola
                    topee, borrowed from her father, making her slim upright figure show straighter
                    and slenderer than ever, he was forced to confess that if she did do these
                    horrible things she did them with infinite verve and good taste.
                ‘I'm so sorry, Mr. Gordon!’ she exclaimed eagerly, ‘indeed I didn't know of the
                    exchange father made till we had started, or I'd have stuck to the dhooli—indeed
                    I would. What an awful brute it was! I saw it giving you a dreadful time. Do let
                    me send you over some Elliman?’
                ‘I'm not such a duffer as all that, Miss Tweedie,’ he began.
                ‘I didn't mean that, you know I didn't; but if you won't have the Elliman, take a
                    hot bath, it's the next best thing I know for stiffness. You can tell your
                    bearer to take the water from our bath?fire. And thanks so much, I enjoyed the
                    ride immensely. Mr. Fitzgerald raced me at the finish, and I beat by a good
                    head.’
                ‘A particularly good head, I should say,’ he replied, out of sheer love of
                    teasing, for he knew how intensely she disliked his artificial manner with women. The fact annoyed him in his turn. It was
                    another of her unwarrantable assumptions of superiority; nevertheless he
                    followed her advice about the bath.
                Indeed Hodinuggur for the rest of the day claimed suppleness of joint, in the
                    mind at least. We all know the modern mansion where, entering a Pompeian hall
                    you pass up a Jacobean staircase, along Early English corridors, and Japanese
                    landings to Queen Anne drawing?rooms; mansions of culture, where present
                    common?sense is relegated to the servants' attics. Hodinuggur was as disturbing
                    to a thoughtful person unused to gymnastics; perhaps more so because a certain
                    glibness of tongue in slurring over chasms and ignoring abysses, became
                    necessary when, as fell to Lewis Gordon's lot, most of the day passed in
                    interviews. Solemn interviews of State, then personal interviews with an
                    ulterior object, finally begging interviews pur et
                        simple. The other members of the camp, however, had an easy time
                    of it, their attendance not being required. Dan Fitzgerald passed most of his
                    day in vain hopes of a tête?à?tête with Mrs.
                    Boynton, for he was on tenter?hooks to explain
                    the feeling with which, on returning late to the camp, he had found it in
                    commotion over her loss; but Gwen, who always dreaded Dan when he had reasonable
                    cause for emotion, avoided him dexterously, chiefly by encouraging George, who
                    was nothing loth to spend his day in camp. At first the lad felt no little vexed
                    to find himself shy and constrained among so large a party; but this feeling
                    wore off quickly, and when he came, ready dressed for tennis, into the
                    drawing?room tent at tea?time it seemed quite natural to be once more amid
                    easy?chairs and knick?knacks, to see the pianette at which Rose sang her Scotch
                    songs with such spirit littered with music, and to find her busy at a table set
                    with all manner of delightful things to eat. He was boy enough to try many of
                    them, that Dan had to apologise for his subordinate's greed before they trooped
                    out laughing to the very different world which lay beyond the treble plies of
                    the tent—that mystical veil of white, and blue, and red, which, during the
                    camping months, hangs between India and its rulers, giving rise to so much
                    misunderstanding on both sides. It is the fashion now?a?days to accentuate the faults of the latter, but much of
                    the bad name given by superficial observers to Anglo?Indian society, is the
                    result of that curious light?heartedness which springs from the necessity for
                    relaxation, consequent on the gloveless hold India exacts on the realities and
                    responsibilities of life. The saying, ‘Let us eat and drink and be merry, for
                    to?morrow we die,’ is hurled unfairly at pleasure?seekers all the world over,
                    simply because merriment has become associated with a low type of amusement. If
                    we change the verbs, the blame vanishes; since to live happily is the end and
                    aim of all morality. Then in India the pursuit of pleasure must needs be
                    personal, for there are no licensed purveyors of amusement. You cannot go to a
                    box?office, buy seats, spend the day seriously, dine at a restaurant, and take a
                    hansom to the play. As a rule you have to begin by building the theatre. So it
                    is in all things, and surely after a hard day's work in bringing sweetness and
                    light (and law) within reach of the heathen, even a judge with a bald head may
                    unbend to youthful pastimes, without breaking the Ten Commandments!
                
                But Colonel Tweedie was not bald, and he played tennis vigorously in what Rose
                    called the duffers' game, with Mrs. Boynton, the under?secretary, and Lewis
                    Gordon who pleaded shortsightedness as an excuse for not joining the Seniors
                    against the Juniors, where Rose and George challenged all comers. Yet he owned
                    it was pretty enough to see the former sending back Dan's vicious cuts with a
                    setting of her teeth ending in a smile either at success or failure. Pleasant to
                    see the alertness, confidence, confidentialness between the boy and girl; to
                    hear his quick ‘Look out,’ evoke the breathless ‘I've—got it,’ as the ball
                    whizzed to some unguarded spot. It was a fierce struggle and the wide?eyed
                    villagers who had trooped out to see the strange doings on their ancestral
                    threshing?floor, gathered instinctively round the harder game.
                ‘Ari, sister!’ murmured a deep?bosomed mother of many to her gossip, as they
                    squatted on one of the heaps of chaff which had been swept aside from the hard
                    beaten floor. ‘That one in the short skirt is a budmârsh.¹ Her man will need his hands.’ Yet an 
                        un?
                        unrestrained
                    
                    ¹ Literally,
                        evil?walker. restrained chuckle ran
                    round the female portion of the audience as Dan, over?running himself in a
                    hopeless attempt after the impossible, scattered a group of turbaned pantaloons,
                    who, retreating with shaking heads to re?form further off, muttered in wondering
                    rebuke, ‘Hai! Hai! does not shame come to her.’ But a third section, ranged in
                    rows, gave an exotic ‘hooray!’ a ridiculous, feeble little cheer, started by a
                    young man in a black alpaca coat, and accompanied by still feebler clapping.
                    This was the village school arid its master, claiming its right to be a judge of
                    ‘crickets.’
                ‘You have the better half of creation on your side, Miss Tweedie,’ remarked
                    Lewis, when, the games being over, the men were resuming their coats. ‘What is
                    more, the rising generation of the worser half also. The boys were unanimous for
                    the “Miss”; we miserable men being left to the support of past ages. India is
                    doomed. Another decade will see woman's rights rampant.’
                She turned on him readily, as she always did. ‘The boys applauded because the
                    rising generation, thank heaven, is being taught to love fair play—even towards
                    women.’
                
                ‘At it again!’ interrupted Mrs. Boynton plaintively, ‘really I must get you two
                    bound over to keep the peace.’
                ‘Then I shall have to hire another camel for my luggage,’ said Lewis gravely,
                    ‘for Miss Tweedie knocks me and my arguments to bits.’
                Gwen turned aside impatiently, saying in a lower voice, ‘How foolish you are,
                    Lewis! One would have thought you would have tired of it by this time.’
                ‘On the contrary,’ he replied in his ordinary tone: ‘the bloom is perennial. I
                    wither beneath the ice of Miss Tweedie's snubs, and revive beneath the sun of
                    her smiles like—like a bachelor's button.’
                And Rose did smile. Her contempt always seemed to pass by the man himself, and
                    rest on his opinions. Even there, much as she loathed them, she was forced to
                    confess that they did not seem to affect his actions; that it was impossible to
                    conceive of his behaving to any woman, save as a gentleman should behave. Yet
                    this thought aggravated the offence of his manner by enhancing its malice
                    aforethought, and made her frown again.
                
                ‘Come! there is light enough for a single yet, Mr. Keene,’ she said imperiously,
                    and George, with one regretful glance at Mrs. Boynton, obeyed. Lewis Gordon
                    looked after them, shrugged his shoulders, and strolled off to the
                    messroom?tent.
                ‘It really is shameful of Lewis to tease Miss Tweedie as he does,’ began Gwen,
                    who, finding herself unavoidably paired with Dan, instantly started what she
                    thought a safe topic of conversation. He looked at her with absent eyes.
                ‘A shame, is it? but when a man likes a girl he is very apt—’
                She broke in with a petulant laugh. ‘Are you asleep, Dan? What could induce you
                    to think that?’
                ‘What? Why, love of course! Set a thief to catch a thief. A man can't be in love
                    himself without—’
                He certainly was not asleep! but she managed to double back to safer ground. Yet
                    his words recurred to her that evening during the half hour tête?à?tête which she accorded with the utmost
                    regularity to Colonel Tweedie in his capacity of host; Rose meanwhile singing songs to the younger men who gathered round
                    the piano, leaving those two decorously to the sofa.
                ‘There is a little song I want Mrs. Boynton to hear,’ called the Colonel during a
                    pause. ‘I forget its name—you haven't sung it for a long time, and I used to be
                    so fond of it. A little Jacobite song—really a charming air, Mrs. Boynton.’ Rose
                    flushed visibly—at least to the feminine eyes in the party—and shook her
                    head.
                ‘But you must remember it, my dear,’ persisted her father; ‘do try.’
                ‘Oh yes! please do try! I should so like to hear it,’ echoed Gwen curiously, her
                    eyes full on the blush. Rose, conscious of it, felt herself a fool, and looked
                    still mere uncomfortable.
                ‘Talking of Jacobite songs,’ remarked an indifferent voice beside her, ‘I wonder,
                    Miss Tweedie, if you know a great favourite of mine, called “Lewie Gordon”—don't
                    laugh, you boys, it's rude. If so, please sing it. I haven't heard it for years;
                    people are always afraid of making me vain.’
                She gave him a quick, grateful look, as, with a nod, she broke into the song.
                    
                        ‘O send Lewie Gordon hame,
                        And the lad I daurna name,
                        Tho' his back be to the wa',
                        Here's to him that's far awa'.’
                     She sang with greater spirit than before, a sort of glad recognition of his
                    kindly tact leading up to the decision of the climax: 
                        ‘That's the lad that I'll gang wi'.’
                     Yet after all, amid the chorus of thanks, she heard him say in his worst
                    manner,— 
                        ‘The lad I daurna name!’
                     ‘How like a woman!’ And he added to the offence; for, when the little
                    under?secretary remarked diffidently that he had always understood that the song
                    referred to Charles Edward, though whether to the old or the young Pretender he
                    could not say, Lewis, as he dawdled away to his nightly task of breaking up the
                        tête?à?tête, murmured that at any rate it
                    referred to a pretendu. But Rose had caught
                    Gwen's appealing look from the sofa also, and rising, closed the piano with a
                    bang and suggested a round game. If her intention was to punish the offender,
                    who hated that form of amusement, she failed ignominiously; for he sat on the ‘Stool of Repentance’ with perfect
                    nonchalance, and, when it came to her turn, paid her such double?edged,
                    charmingly caustic little compliments, that she had to join in the laugh they
                    raised. It was, in fact, past midnight ere the Colonel, with many allusions to
                    the delight of such company, said they really must go to bed, and they trooped
                    in a body out of the big tent to seek their several quarters.
                ‘I'm glad not to make a casual of you to?night,’ said Mrs. Boynton softly to
                    George.
                ‘Almost wish you were,’ he replied, giving a rueful look towards the red brick
                    prison on the farther side of the canal. ‘This is home; that is exile.’
                Dan nodded his head sympathetically. ‘I know that feeling. It comes from jungle
                    stations. And the bungalow does look cheerless in comparison. Odd; for one
                    naturally associates a camp with wars and tumults, battles, murders, and sudden
                    death; all the evils of a transitory world, in fact. But you must have noticed,
                    Mrs. Boynton, the extra?ordinary air of peace, security, almost of permanence
                    which tents have in the moonlight. Look! might
                    they not be solid blocks of marble fastened by silver cords?’
                ‘I noticed it last night when I was watching them being put up,’ began George
                    unguardedly. Mrs. Boynton looked up quickly. Rose, who was leaning against a
                    rope by the door of her tent which stood next the mess, glanced along the line
                    of the camp.
                ‘Silver cords and marble blocks,’ she echoed. ‘Yes! but it sounds like the new
                    Jerusalem.’
                ‘I always thought,’ remarked Lewis Gordon argumentatively, ‘that it was the tents
                    of Midian. I'm sure some one told me so when I learnt hymns. Or was it hosts of
                    Midian and tents of Ishmael? Anyhow, they had nothing to do with Paradise, and I
                    for one have been prowling round long enough. So good?night, Gwen; don't grow
                    wings in the night, please; it would be so disconcerting. Good?night, Miss
                    Tweedie.’
                Being close beside her he held out his hand.
                ‘Good?night; I hope you are not very stiff.’
                ‘I almost wish I were, for then you would sympathise with misfortune—like a
                    woman,’ he replied in a low voice, and as he passed to his own tent next hers, she heard him quote the
                    lines— 
                        ‘Tho' his back be to the wa',
                        Here's to him that's far awa'.’
                     She looked after him, her face showing soft in the moonlight then, with a
                    good?night to the others, disappeared in her turn.
                George lingered, giving still more rueful glances at the bungalow. ‘I suppose I
                    must be off too. Oh! by the way! it's all right about the Ayôdhya pot. Dalel Beg
                    tells me his women know the owner, so you will have it to?morrow. Good?night,
                    Fitzgerald.’
                Dan, thus left alone to walk two tents?length with Gwen, felt that fate was on
                    his side at last; more probably she was, since her fine tact told
                    her it was never wise to ignore his passion entirely. Besides, something in her
                    shrank from treating him always as a mere outsider.
                ‘I've been longing for this chance all day,’ he began at once in a tone that was
                    in itself a caress.
                ‘Do you think I am quite blind?’ she interrupted, a trifle petulantly; ‘the only
                    wonder is that every one in the camp didn't
                    see it also. You are so reckless, Dan! Of course you wanted to tell me how you
                    felt when I was lost, and all that; as if I couldn't imagine it!’ she gave in to
                    a smile that was almost tender as she spoke—‘Why, Dan! I can see you! with a
                    face yards long, and the whole camp, Chief and all, under orders in half a
                    minute. Fire?escapes, life?preservers, first aid to the wounded, everything
                    mortal man could devise to avert disaster, ready before the rest had time to
                    think! Do you suppose I don't know what you are, Dan?’ The odd, composite ring
                    in her voice sank as she added, in a lower tone, ‘sometimes I almost wish I
                    didn't.’
                They had reached the place where their ways separated; hers to the last tent
                    forward, his to the second row, and she held out her hand with a smile to say
                    good?night. His heart beat hard at her half?reluctant admission of praise;
                    besides, Gwen Boynton was not the sort of woman who could smile thus, and yet
                    expect to end the interview then and there; perhaps, again, she did not wish it
                    so to end. In her relations with this man, she often found it difficult to know what she did, or did not,
                    desire.
                ‘Gwen,’ he said eagerly, standing close, with his warm nervous hands clasping
                    hers, ‘did you think of me—then?—when you knew you were lost, I mean—did you,
                    Gwen?—I don't often ask anything of you, my darling—you might tell me—It isn't
                    much to ask—Did you, Gwen?’
                She gave something between a laugh and a sob. ‘Did I? Oh! Dan, you know I did.
                    There, that is enough—you said that was all you wanted. Good?night, Dan.’
                He went over to his quarters happy as a king. As for Gwen, the personal influence
                    his immediate presence had over her passed away quickly, and that which his real
                    absence from her life invariably produced did not come to soften the curious
                    dread with which she recognised that in her trouble of the day before, her first
                    thought had indeed been for him. How foolish she had been in letting him
                    re?enter her life at all; but he had come back in her first loneliness when the
                    future had seemed very black. Now it was different, now it was once more that
                    choice between poverty and comfort which she had made in her girlhood. With what pain, none—save Dan, who,
                    alas! always understood—would believe. And if the choice was necessary then,
                    what was it now with her acquired habits, her knowledge of the world? They would
                    both be miserable if they married without money. Then the thought of the bills
                    came, as it always did to remind her of the tie they imposed. Even if Lewis,
                    whom she liked and respected, were to make up his mind to marry, she could not
                    accept him without dismissing Dan. Yet how could she dismiss him, even for his
                    good, until that money was repaid? Poor Dan! he loved her dearly, and in a way
                    she cared for him as she had never cared for any of her other lovers. Yet the
                    decision which had turned out so comfortably ten years before was still the
                    right decision. And many of those lovers had been as devoted to her; and yet
                    they had recovered from their rejection. Then the remembrance of George Keene's
                    admission that he had been out watching the stars made her smile. He was a nice
                    boy, who already deemed her an angel; but Lewis objected to wings, and of the
                    two that was the most convenient view for the woman.
                
                While she was coming to this conclusion George had been looking after her
                    interests, for on his return to the bungalow he had been startled by the sudden
                    uprisal of a veiled female from a shadowy corner of his verandah.
                ‘I am Azizan's mother,’ said a muffled voice. ‘The Mirza sent me. I have been
                    waiting the Huzoor's return. There is the pot if the Huzoor will give ten rupees
                    for it. It is much, yet the pot brings luck.’
                ‘Ten!’ echoed George in delight, taking it from her. ‘Yes! you shall have that;
                    then I owe Azizan also. Shall I pay you?’
                ‘My daughter is as myself,’ replied the voice. ‘It is ten for the picture, and
                    ten for the pot.’
                George fetched the money and counted it carefully into the shrouded hand.
                ‘That is all, I think?’ he asked.
                ‘Huzoor, that is all. May the blessing of the widow and the fatherless go with
                    the merciful Protector of the Poor.’
                But while he was thinking, as he undressed, how pleased Mrs. Boynton would be,
                    the veiled figure was pausing in the moonlight to speak to the factotum.
                
                ‘You have seen nothing, you are to say nothing. And the Diwan sends these to the
                    servant?people.’ Then came twenty careful chinks, this time into a clutching
                    hand, and Chândni, hurrying back to the city, laughed silently to herself. The
                    idea of bribing the chota sahib's servants with his own rupees would please
                    Dalel, and put him into a good temper again; so if this plan matured, her future
                    would ripen with it. As she passed the sleeping camp she paused, wondering in
                    which tent lay the mem who had succeeded so easily where she had failed. The
                    lights were out in all save two, and the double row of glistening white roofs
                    struck even her insensibility with a savage recognition of undeserved peace and
                    security. They were no better than she; no better than those shadowy crouching
                    figures of the village bad?characters set out here and there to keep watch and
                    ward, on the principle of setting a thief to catch a thief; a plan which at
                    least secures a deserving criminal should thefts occur. For it was in the East
                    that the strange hybrid between altruism and egotism which we call a scape?goat
                    was invented by mankind.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VII
                ONE of the lights Chândni saw came from Lewis Gordon's tent. He was hard
                    at work, not altogether from sheer industry. Sleep with him—oddly enough in one
                    claiming such serenity of temperament—had to be approached discreetly, and for
                    many days past a disturbing current of thought had required the dam of good
                    solid official business before he could trust himself safely to the waters of
                    Lethe. He had not been constantly in his cousin's company for six weeks without
                    learning to appreciate her infinite charm. She was emphatically a woman to
                    ensure a husband's success as well as her own. A man would never have to
                    consider enemies with her at his side, whereas with many others—Rose Tweedie for
                    instance—it might be necessary to fight your wife's battles as well as your own.
                    This comparison of the two arose from no conceit on his part in imagining that any choice lay with him. Simply, he
                    could not avoid comparing the only two women in his daily surroundings. At the
                    same time he was fully aware that Gwen would marry him if he asked her, and the
                    question which had at first assailed him in the hall at Rajpore, recurred again
                    and again, disturbing him seriously by alternate attraction and repulsion. He
                    had seen too much of fascinating wifehood to care for possessing a specimen
                    himself, yet Gwen would marry him because she considered it would further their
                    mutual interests; and that, surely, was a more reliable foundation for a
                    permanent contract than a girlish affection. Quite as pleasant, too, as the
                    hail?fellow?well?met liking, which seemed to be Rose Tweedie's notion of love.
                    George Keene and she were like a couple of boys together. The remembrance
                    jarred, though he went on working with a smile at the thought of her eager
                    readiness to take up the glove on all occasions.
                Rose, meanwhile, lay awake next door frowning over the same readiness, and then
                    frowning at her own frowns; since what was it to her if Lewis Gordon were nice
                    or nasty? He himself did not care what she
                    thought, and would end by marrying his cousin, though in his heart of
                    hearts—
                Rose sat up in bed angrily. What did she know or care of Lewis Gordon's heart?
                        Dieu merci! Gwen Boynton was welcome to
                    it, but she should not drag George Keene captive as she seemed welcome to do.
                    George was too good to hang round a pretty woman, like Lewis—
                This was intolerable. To escape the tyranny of thought she rose, slipped on her
                    white dressing?gown, lit the lamp she had extinguished, and sat down to read a
                    stiff book till she felt sleepy. The process was not a long one, for she was
                    really fatigued, and ten minutes saw her turning down the lamp once more.
                What happened next she scarcely knew; only this—a glare of light—a feeble crash.
                    Then fire in her eyes, her face, her hands—fire at her feet, licking along the
                    thin carpet, soaking up the folds of her filmy dress. The bed lay close at hand;
                    she was on it in a second, wrapping the blankets round her, and beating out the
                    runnels of flame, with eyes, brain, and body
                    absorbed in the immediate personal danger. When that was over, and she looked
                    up, she sprang to her feet on the bed with a cry. The fire was everywhere,
                    creeping up the sides of the tent, filling it with suffocating smoke. She wound
                    her trailing skirts round her and made a dive for the first outlet—for her only
                    chance of escape! The thick wadded curtain swinging aside let in a wind, making
                    the smouldering cotton flame; but the next instant she was outside, constrained
                    to pause, wondering if by chance it was nothing but a bad dream. For the camp
                    lay serene and peaceful in the moonlight; not a sound, not a sign, even from her
                    own tent. She stood positively irresolute, staring back at what she had left.
                    Was it a dream? Then, suddenly a faint drift of smoke rose through a crevice in
                    the cloth.
                ‘Mr. Gordon!—Mr. Gordon!’ She burst through the thick, guided by the light in his
                    tent to the nearest help. ‘Your knife—quick! my tent is on fire! Quick, or the
                    whole camp will catch!’
                The blood was flowing from a cut over her forehead, one arm showed bare
                        through scorched muslin, the draperies
                    caught round her were singed and blackened, the stamp and smell of fire was on
                    her from head to foot. Lewis, starting to his feet, stared at her.
                ‘Oh, quick! please, quick! Your pen?knife—anything! Cut down the tents—Mr.
                    Fitzgerald said it was the only—’
                He had grasped the position ere she could finish, snatched up a hunting?knife and
                    was out; she, with a pen?knife, close at his heels.
                ‘Good God! how the wind has risen,’ he muttered, as they ran. ‘No, not mine!—The
                    mess?tent first; the wind is that way.’
                As they flew past her tent, the scene seemed peaceful as ever; but ere the
                    guy?ropes of the next were reached, a swirl of smoke and flame, prisoned until
                    then by the outer fly of canvas, swept straight up into the sky in the first
                    force of its escape; then bent silently to the breeze. So silently!—not a roar,
                    not a crackle—just a pyramid of fire splitting the taut canvas into long shreds,
                    which the wind flung in pennants of flame on the mess?tent as those two hacked
                    silently at the ropes. There was no time for words; no time for thought. A
                    quiver came to the solid?looking pile, a shimmer in the moonlight. Another rope—another—then a sudden sway, a crash of glass
                    and china from within. Down! but with a creeping trail of fire within its
                    folds!
                There was no lack of helpers by this time. Knives, hatchets were at work right
                    and left upon the ropes lest the message of fire should find the tents taut.
                    Colonel Tweedie was shouting confused orders in front. Dan Fitzgerald, after a
                    quick inquiry if all were safely out, was back in the rear row, where the danger
                    grew with delay. The din was deafening, yet the flames made no noise; it was the
                    dark humanity yelling, as it capered over the big tent, treading out the curling
                    snakes of fire. Seen against the glare of a burning pyramid behind, the figures
                    showed like the demons in a mediæval Judgment beating the lost souls down to the
                    worm which dieth not.
                Rose, standing to rest, now that abler arms were at work, felt a hurried touch on
                    her shoulder, and turned to see Lewis Gordon holding out an ulster which he had
                    fetched from his tent.
                ‘Put it on,’ he said unceremoniously, ‘or you'll catch cold.’
                
                She flushed with surprise, then, as she complied, realising for the first time
                    the havoc fire had made in her dress, continued to blush with an odd feeling of
                    resentment.
                ‘Where is Mrs. Boynton?’ she asked quickly, to cover her confusion. ‘ I suppose
                    you—I mean, she is safe, of course?’
                ‘Of course. I haven't seen her though; but I heard your father calling to her.
                    She must be with him. I'll see.’
                ‘Mrs. Boynton? God bless my soul, isn't she with Rose?’ cried Colonel Tweedie,
                    who was still shouting excited orders to the crowd of coolies. ‘She answered me
                    and her tent is down. She must be out.’
                ‘Mrs. Boynton! Has any one seen Mrs. Boynton?’ Gordon's cry ran down the line
                    without response.
                ‘Gwen!—Gwen! the fools must have cut the thing down on top of her!’ He had dashed
                    up to the mass of ropes and canvas lying without beginning or end, in hopeless
                    chaos. ‘Gwen! Gwen!—are you there?’
                A muffled cry was audible now in the hush of the workers.
                ‘Not stunned, that's one thing,’ he muttered to
                    himself before shouting encouragement. Rose was at his elbow and caught his
                    whisper.
                ‘The sparks, for God's sake, Miss Tweedie! I trust you. If the tent smoulders she
                    may suffocate before we— Coming, Gwen, coming directly!’
                But no obstacle against eager help was ever more successful than that tortuous
                    heap of heavy canvas, full of blind folds and entangled ropes, stayed fore and
                    aft, and still fastened beyond possibility of removal to the bamboo?strengthened
                    sides and the yet uncut guys. The seekers dived into the folds again and again
                    to find themselves meshed; while Rose, with a sickening fear at her heart lest
                    she should miss one, watched the sparks and shreds drifting by in clouds
                    settling here, there, everywhere, and needing swift command to the little band
                    of helpers.
                ‘Quick, quick!—yonder by the corner. Another there! Stamp it out—quick! Well
                    done!’
                ‘What is it? what is it?’ A new voice rose above the turmoil as Dan Fitzgerald
                    came running from the rear grasping the truth as he ran. ‘No, no!’ he panted.
                    ‘No use, Gordon —too long. Get to the guys,
                    for God's sake—the thickest—half a dozen men. Colonel, the right corner, please,
                    sir; Gordon, the left; Smith, round to the back. They are not cut there, and see
                    that the pegs hold—they must hold. Miss Tweedie, put a man to each
                    stay as the front rises. I want the doorway—the door must show.
                    Brothers,’ he continued in Hindustani to the men who were fast falling into
                    place, 
                        ‘
                        
                    we have to raise the tent again. Remember, the tent rises at the
                        word! Gordon, are you ready? All ready?—’
                He paused, gave a rapid glance at the sparks, and lowered his voice. ‘It has to
                    be done sharp, Colonel, or—’ Again he hesitated between fear of letting the
                    prisoner know her imminent danger, and fear of not enforcing the necessity for
                    speed. Rose understood, and racked by anxiety as she was, felt a thrill of
                    recognition at Dan's quick thought which, even in such a moment, enabled him to
                    remember that, as Mrs. Boynton knew but little Hindustani, he could continue in
                    that language. ‘The tent is certain to catch fire, but it may be smouldering
                    now; so we must risk it. Remember that I must get in and out before the canvas yields, or— So be sharp.
                    Gordon! you give the word!’
                There was an instant's silence, broken by a voice. Then a shout, a heave, and
                    Rose straining at a rope as she never strained before, felt, rather than saw,
                    something rise, pause, sink; rise again fluttering, swaying.
                ‘Higher! higher!’ shouted Dan, standing close in, ready for a dive at the door.
                    ‘All together, Gordon. Shâh?bâash, brothers! My God! it's caught already!’
                A blot of shadow near her showed the coming doorway, and, half clear as it was,
                    she saw Dan dash into it with the cry, which was echoed from outside as a little
                    runnel of fire quivered up the half?stretched canvas.
                ‘Stand fast! stand fast!’ shouted Gordon at the guy. ‘Run in, half of you, to the
                    bamboos; they may hold longer than the stays.’
                Rose was at one in a moment and clung to it, seeing nothing, thinking of nothing,
                    but that irregular square of shadow. When would he come through it again? The
                    tangles within! how would he thread them? For the pole having slipped from its
                    supporting pegs had slid along the ground and
                    would not rise more than half?way; so the inner fly?sides must be hanging in a
                    maze—a maze of smouldering canvas. Horrible! a burning pall! Ah! would he never
                    come?
                Suddenly came another cry, as a great sheet of fire ran up the right ridge and
                    the men at the rope fell backwards under the slackened strain of the parting
                    canvas; yet still the corners held. But for how long! Oh! would he never come
                    out?
                ‘Mr. Fitzgerald! Mr. Fitzgerald! be quick, oh, please be quick.’
                It was a foolish, aimless little cry, yet somehow it raised a new idea in her
                    mind. What if he had lost his way in that hideous tangle? She was at the blot of
                    shadow in an instant calling again and again. Too late! surely too late, for the
                    bamboo lintel to which she clung frantically swayed. Not down yet—yes! down, and
                    she with it, half kneeling still. She heard a cry from Lewis bidding the others
                    run in on the fire and stamp it out; but as she staggered to her feet still
                    holding on to the lintel something else staggered beside her.
                ‘All right,’ gasped Dan, before the great shout
                    of relief rose up drowning his voice. When it had passed and they crowded about
                    him, he had set Gwen's feet on the ground and drawn the folds of blanket from
                    her face, though his arm was still round her as she clung to him, scarcely
                    believing in her safety.
                ‘Only frightened—half suffocated,’ he went on, struggling to get back his breath.
                    ‘Couldn't some one bring her a glass of water—don't move yet—they will bring it
                    to you here. It is all over—except the shouting.’
                Rose standing aside, giddy with sudden relief, could hardly believe it could be
                    over. Yet the coolies were rubbing themselves and laughing over their sprawl in
                    the dust when the tent collapsed, and the tent itself was blazing away unheeded
                    on the ground. Yes! it was over, and so quickly that George Keene, roused by the
                    crash of the mess?room tent, came too late for anything save sympathy. He gave
                    that to the full; not unnecessarily, for in truth the condition of the camp was
                    pitiable. Lewis Gordon's tent, being the only one to windward of the original
                    outbreak, was left standing; the rest were either smouldering in ashes or
                    severely damaged beyond the possibility of
                    re?pitching without repair, while the extent of other injuries must remain
                    unknown till dawn brought light, and time allowed the fires to die out
                    undisturbed; for any letting in of air while the wind remained so high might
                    cause a fresh blaze.
                Colonel Tweedie, looking a perfect wreck in his striped flannel suit, fussed
                    about uncertain and querulous, while George and Dalel Beg, who had arrived from
                    the palace, competed for the honour of putting up the ladies during the
                    remainder of the night; Dalel, minus the least vestige of European attire, being
                    re?inforced after a time by Khush?hâl Beg, breathless but dignified, bearing the
                    Diwan's urgent prayer to be allowed the honour of helping a beneficent
                    Government in its hour of need.
                Dan with an impatient frown on his face waited for decision till his patience
                    failed. Then he buttoned?holed Lewis, who amid all the wild costumes looked
                    almost ridiculously prim in his dress suit, and expounded his views vehemently,
                    the result being that the Chief concluded in favour of the palace. If, as was
                    possible, they might be forced into halting for several days, the old pile would
                    hold them all, and a regiment besides. So,
                    after a time, odd little square dhoolies, smelling strongly of attar, came for
                    the two ladies, and in them, duly veiled from public gaze, they were hurried
                    along, much to their amusement. The gentlemen after a raid on Lewis Gordon's
                    wardrobe, following suit, all except the under?secretary, who, coming last,
                    found nothing available save a white waistcoat and a pair of jack boots, in
                    which additions to a pyjama sleeping suit he looked so absurd that the others
                    sat and roared at him, as men will do at trifles when still under the influence
                    of relief and excitement, until George carried him off to his bungalow,
                    promising to return him next morning clothed and in his right mind. Thus the
                    night ended in comedy for all save Mrs. Boynton. To her, clothes were anything
                    but a triviality, and as she lay among silk quilts and hard roly?poly bolsters
                    in the little strip of a room to which she and Rose were taken, pending the
                    preparation of a state suite upstairs, she mourned sincerely over the probable
                    fate of her wardrobe. Had it remained in the leather trunks escape might have
                    been possible, but, knowing they were to halt for a day at least, she made the ayah hang up all the dresses
                    round the tent. Poor Gwen seemed to see them, like Bluebeard's wives in a row,
                    getting rid of their creases, and the thought of under?garments which might be
                    uninjured gave her no consolation.
                Rose was more calm, remembering that her riding habit had, as usual, been removed
                    in order to be brushed, and would most likely be produced next morning. Besides,
                    she was worn out by the excitement, and forgot even the smart of a large scorch
                    on her arm in the memory of that five minutes during which she had waited for
                    Dan to come out of the fiery maze. Despite her boasted nerves, the stress and
                    strain of it all came back again and again, making her set her teeth and clench
                    her hands. Yet Gwen, who had so narrowly escaped a dreadful death, was grumbling
                    over the loss of her dresses. Rose, lying in the dark listening to the plaintive
                    regrets, felt scornfully superior, not knowing that her companion was
                    deliberately trying to forget, to ignore, a like memory—the memory of her own
                    feelings when Dan fought his way to her at last. If that sort of thing went on
                    he would end by marrying her in spite of her
                    wiser self; and then they would both be miserable. She was not a romantic fool,
                    and yet—a very real resentment rose up against him as she remembered her own
                    confidence, her own content. She felt vaguely as if he had taken advantage of
                    her fear, and that something must be done to prevent a recurrence of this
                    weakness on her part. If she could only pay back the money he had paid for her,
                    matters would be easier to manage. As it was, even Lewis, with his easy?going
                    estimate of women, would not stand the knowledge of her indebtedness to another
                    man, so something must be done, something must be changed. That, oddly enough,
                    was the underlying grievance which found expression in petulant assertions that
                    Fate was doubly hard in making her fair; had she been dark like Rose, the part
                    of Eastern Princess she would have to play until another consignment of
                    civilised dresses arrived from Rajpore would have been fun. As it was, she would
                    look a perfect fright.
                She did not, however. Had she not been aware of this fact ere she made her
                    appearance next morning in the long flowing robes and veil of a Delhi lady, she must have gathered it from
                    the looks of her companions. But she had appraised herself in one of the big
                    mirrors in the suite of state apartments halfway up the stairs, and decided that
                    she would wear a similar costume at the very next fancy ball.
                This in itself was sufficient to chase any save immediate care from a mind like
                    hers. In addition, even a stronger character would have found it difficult to
                    avoid falling in with the reckless merriment which had seized on all the other
                    actors in the past night's incident; partly from relief at its comic ending,
                    partly because the charm of absolute novelty, the zest of the unexpected,
                    enhanced the pleasure of extremely comfortable quarters—for Lewis in his
                    capacity of personal aide had decided against
                    the dark state suite of apartments on the second storey in favour of the roof
                    above, with its slender balconies, long arcades, and cool central summer?house
                    open on all sides to the air. Here, high above the sand swirls, safe from the
                    sun, they would be far better off than in tents during the growing heat of the
                    days. Gwen, leaning against a clustered marble
                    pillar, looking down an the red?brown slant of windowless wall spreading like a
                    fort to the paved courtyard below, said it was like living on a slice of
                    wedding?cake. A solid chunk below, above a sugar filigree; whereat George,
                    delighted, assured her that the whole palace itself viewed from afar had always
                    reminded him of the same thing. Filigree or no filigree, she said it was
                    charming, and the central hall of the twelve?doored summer?house was a marvel of
                    decoration; fast falling to decay no doubt, yet losing no beauty in the process,
                    since the floriated white tracery overlaying the background of splintered
                    looking?glass was so intricate that the eye could scarcely follow the pattern
                    sufficiently to appreciate a flaw. Seated there in coolest shadow you could see
                    through the inner arches to the long slips of vaulted rooms on all four sides;
                    through them again to the blue sky set in its rim of level plain, save to the
                    north where the view was blocked by the Diwan's tower rising a dozen feet or
                    more from the terraced roof, with which it was connected by a flight of steps
                    barred by a locked iron grille. Thus the roof
                    lay secure from all intrusion except from the court?yard, whence an outside stair, clinging to the bare wall,
                    gave access to the state rooms below, and thence, still slanting upwards, to the
                    lowest terrace of roof. Rose, leaning over a balcony looking sheer down to where
                    the servants, like ants, were running to and fro over the preparations for
                    breakfast, declared she would use one of the four little corner?rooms of the
                    summer?house as her bedroom. All it needed was a curtain at the inner arch, when
                    it would be infinitely preferable to those dreadful rooms downstairs all hung
                    with glass chandeliers and silvered balls, which made her inclined to hang
                    herself in sympathy. In the hopes rather, suggested Lewis, of improving the
                    style of the decoration; a remark which brought the usual frown to the girl's
                    face. In truth, Rose Tweedie in her trim riding habit did not suit her
                    surroundings half so well as Gwen Boynton in her trailing tinsel?decked robes.
                    On the other hand, Colonel Tweedie would have done better in not yielding to the
                    temptation of playing ‘Sultan’ to Mrs. Boynton's ‘Light of the Harem’; for
                    native costume does not suit an elderly Englishman. But the opportunity had been
                    too strong for him.
                
                ‘My dear father,’ said Rose helplessly, when she first caught sight of her parent
                    in a khim?khâb coat and baggy trousers. She might have said more, had not Mrs.
                    Boynton's grave compliment on his appearance sent the girl away impatiently to
                    lean over the balcony once more, and wonder if they were ever going to bring
                    breakfast.
                To her, when he appeared, went Dan Fitzgerald, without even a look at the
                    others.
                ‘Thanks, Miss Tweedie,’ he said in a low tone. ‘I hadn't time to say it last
                    night. I had lost myself, and your voice—However, it can be only
                        “thank you,” and you have that.’
                Rose, with a smile, let his hand linger in hers for a second as their eyes met.
                    Honest, friendly eyes.
                And George Keene also passed straight to her.
                ‘Better! That is all right. By Jove, you were bad, when I found you outside the
                    fuss when it was all over. You would have fainted, if it hadn't been for the
                    whisky and water—which, by the way, I stole from Gordon's flask—’
                ‘You didn't tell him?’ interrupted Rose quickly.
                
                ‘Not I! I knew you wanted it kept dark about the scorch. It's better, I hope?
                    Why, you have curled your hair over the cut on your forehead. What a dodge!’
                His young face was overflowing with a sort of pride in her pluck, when Mrs.
                    Boynton came up. She was in a mood which craved attention, and some of her
                    slaves had passed her by to give Rose the first word.
                ‘What are you two discussing so eagerly?’ she began. ‘Good morning, Mr. Keene.
                    How delightfully commonplace you look in exactly the proper breakfast costume
                    for a young Englishman!’
                George blushed. He would have given worlds to say that she looked anything but
                    commonplace, but was too young to venture on it. But he looked the sentiment,
                    and Gwen smiled bewilderingly back at him. She was made that way, and could not
                    help it.
                ‘Isn't it quaint up here?’ she went on, leaning over the balustrade and looking,
                    as Rose had been doing, at the servants filing up the steps with silver dishes
                    of sausages and bacon, and all the accessories of an orthodox English breakfast,
                    regardless of the feelings of their
                    pig?loathing hosts. ‘I declare, I have fallen in love with everything.’
                ‘Yourself included, I hope,’ added Lewis, joining the group; ‘or, to put it
                    politely, you have fallen in love with everything, and everything has fallen in
                    love with you. And no wonder. The fact is, Gwen, that you do suit your present
                    environment to perfection. I should not have believed the thing possible—but so
                    it is.’
                As he sat on the coping with his back to the landscape, he bent forward looking
                    at her critically—‘No!’ he went on; ‘I should not have thought it possible, but
                    you look the part.’
                ‘It must be awful, though, to be a native,’ remarked George fervently. His eyes
                    were on Colonel Tweedie as he spoke. That conspicuous failure was, however, only
                    partly responsible for his opinion. In a more or less crude form the childish
                    hymn of gratitude for having been born in order to go to a public school
                    survives wholesomely amongst young Englishmen.
                ‘I don't know,’ dissented Gordon languidly. ‘A civilised conscience is a
                    frightful 
                        inter?
                        interference
                     ference with the liberty of the
                    subject. Personally, I object to the native views of comfort, pleasure, and all
                    that. But I can imagine some very good fellows preferring them. They are not
                    nearly such a strain on the nervous system. For instance, Gwen, were you really
                    the Shah?zâdi you look, there would have been no necessity for sending back
                    those brocades over which I found you weeping half an hour ago. You would have
                    appropriated them without demur. Wouldn't she, sir?’
                The Colonel gave his little preparatory cough, and looked grave.
                ‘It wasn't a brocade, Colonel Tweedie,’ protested Gwen. ‘It was simply the most
                    lovely piece of old?gold satin in the world. It stood up of itself, and yet was
                    absolutely invertebrate in its folds. Perfect! The same on both sides too. I had
                    half a mind to be double?faced myself, and take it when Mr. Gordon's back was
                    turned.’
                ‘Why didn't you?’ retorted the latter cynically. ‘You are the only one of us who
                    would not be criminally responsible for the action. Isn't that so, sir?’ He was 
                        mischiev? ously amused by his
                            chief's evident dislike to the subject.
                        mischievously
                    
                ‘Should I be responsible?’ asked Rose, surprised.
                ‘Your father would be, for your action. Wouldn't you, sir?’
                This was too much even for reticent dignity.
                ‘I—er—don't—I mean, doubtless; but—er—it is not—er—a subject which comes within
                    the range of practical politics.’
                ‘I should hope not,’ cried Rose. ‘My dear dad! fancy your being responsible for
                    my actions. It isn't fair!’ Her face of aggrieved decision made the others
                    laugh.
                ‘Perhaps it isn't, Miss Tweedie,’ remarked Lewis gravely; ‘but I can assure you
                    that we officials are all responsible for our female relations in the first
                    degree. A merciful Government has, however, drawn the line at cousins. So Mrs.
                    Boynton could only lose her own pension, if she were found out.’
                Gwen made a moue of derision.
                ‘That is not much to risk. I wish I had known this before. Lewis! do you think
                    you could prevail on them to give me another chance with the satin?’
                
                ‘What on earth is delaying the breakfast?’ fussed Colonel Tweedie, moving off. He
                    hated persiflage, especially between his guest
                    and his secretary.
                ‘Coming, sir, coming,’ said George, leaning over to look; ‘there is a regular
                    procession of silver dishes filing up Jacob's ladder.’
                ‘Oh dem silver dishes,’ hummed Rose gaily, leaning over to look, too. ‘How funny
                    it is, isn't it?’
                ‘Funny!’ echoed Dan, ‘it is simply appalling.’
                Perhaps the sudden sense of the utter incongruousness of it all accounted for the
                    silence which followed, as they stood on the balcony, which clung like a
                    swallow's nest to the bare walls. Below them, beyond the courtyard, lay the
                    shadowy arcades of the bazaar and the great pile of the Mori gate. Beyond that
                    again the bricks and sandheaps of Hodinuggur, with the village creeping up to be
                    crowned by the grass palisades where the potter sat at work.
                ‘Talking of bribes,’ said Dan absently, after the pause, ‘I've often wondered how
                    a fellow feels when he has been informed that her gracious Majesty has no further need of his services.
                    They seldom go beyond that now?a?days, but that must be bad enough.’
                ‘Very much so, if the bribe has been insufficient,’ assented Lewis.
                ‘Mr. Gordon! how can you?’ began Rose, pausing, however, at the sight of his
                    satisfied smile.
                ‘You should adopt the sun with the motto “Emergo” as your crest, Miss Tweedie. It
                    would suit both you thoughts and deeds,’ he replied teasingly.
                ‘Don't mind him,’ put in Dan; ‘he always was weak in his grammar, and doesn't
                    know that rise must be the correct present tense of Rose.’
                ‘But, really,’ persisted Lewis, when the laugh ended; ‘if a man had
                    taken a bribe, the first thought to one of his genre would naturally be if the game was worth the candle. If he
                        hadn't—why, dismissal from the public service is not always
                    misfortune. There is the disgrace, of course, but personally, I have never been
                    able to understand the sentiment of the thing; it appears to me strained. Half
                    your world, as a rule, dislikes you; it believes you capable of murdering your grandmother at any moment. Yet the fact doesn't
                    distress you. It is inevitable that some people should think ill of you. So why
                    should you care when they invent a definite crime for you to commit? It doesn't
                    affect your friends.’
                ‘Well, I don't know,’ said George Keene sturdily. ‘That's all very philosophical,
                    but I believe I should shoot myself.’
                ‘No! you wouldn't, old chap; unless you wished people to consider you
                    guilty.’
                ‘This conversation is becoming gruesome,’ put in Mrs. Boynton; ‘let us change it;
                    though Lewis is right, for Government service seems to me a doubtful
                    blessing—’
                ‘But an assured income,’ interrupted Dan, with a laugh.
                Lewis Gordon turned on him quite hotly. ‘I like your saying that, Fitzgerald—you
                    of all people in the world. Why, man alive! if I had your power I would chuck
                    to?morrow, and die contractor, engineer, K.C.I.E, and the richest man in
                    India!’
                Gwen Boynton looked up in quick interest. ‘Really! do you mean that
                        really, Lewis?’
                ‘I won't swear to the K.C.S.I., or the
                    superlative, but Fitzgerald knows perfectly that I always say he has mistaken
                    his line of life. We want hacks. People to obey orders, not to give them.’ As he
                    spoke he glanced meaningly at Colonel Tweedie walking about fussily, and then at
                    his friend's face.
                Dan swung himself from the balustrade where he had been perched. ‘Some one must
                    give orders, and I mean to stick on for my promotion. It must come next year. So
                    that is settled. Are you not coming to breakfast, Mrs. Boynton?’ She met his
                    smile without response as she turned away.
                ‘Dear me! the others have gone in already, and I was so hungry. But one doesn't
                    often get the chance, Mr. Fitzgerald, of considering an old friend in a new
                    character. It was quite absorbing—for the time.’
                So the balcony was left to the sunlight, and some one, who had been watching it
                    from an archway in the bazaar, withdrew to the shadow where she rolled the
                    little pellets of opium in her soft palms and prepared for her mid?day sleep.
                    The burning of the tents had been a real piece of luck, the mem—that was she no
                    doubt in the native dress—would be in the
                    palace for two or three days, and women were women whether fair or dark. This
                    one, too, looked of the right sort. Chândni's dreams that day were of a time
                    when she would have the upper hand in Hodinuggur and become virtuous, for it
                    paid to be virtuous under the present Government. Dalel should start a women's
                    hospital. Then the Sirkar would give him the water every year, and the necessity
                    for scheming would disappear. In the meantime they must not be niggardly. That
                    did not pay with women, since, if they were of the sort to take bribes, they
                    were of the sort not easily satisfied.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER VIII
                ‘COME and see our mad potter before you go home, Miss Tweedie,’ pleaded
                    George Keene, ‘he really is one of the shows, isn't he, Fitzgerald?’
                They had been doing the sights of Hodinuggur as an afternoon's amusement; tennis
                    in a riding?habit having no attractions for Rose. Mrs. Boynton, however, on the
                    plea of being a Zenana lady, had elected to remain on the roof, Colonel Tweedie
                    keeping her company until the time came for his return visit of state to the
                    Diwan on his tower. Lewis might have made the same choice had he been given it;
                    but he was not. So he had preferred loafing round the ruins to toiling after
                    problematical black buck with the sporting party, and made a pleasant companion,
                    as even Rose admitted; being ready with information on most points, and between
                    the references talking affably with Dan regarding the respective merit of Schultze versus brown powder; thus leaving the younger couple to
                    themselves. So his change of manner stood out with unusual distinctness as Rose
                    turned to him for consent to George Keene's invitation.
                ‘As you please, Miss Tweedie; we are your slaves. A mad potter sounds cheerful;
                    he is the man, I suppose, who made that jolly little pot Keene sacrificed to my
                    cousin's greed this morning. When you are as old as I am, my dear fellow, you
                    will really keep the pretty things out of the sight of ladies. I always do,
                    now?a?days. There was a little woman at Peshawur, I remember—she had blue
                    eyes—who wheedled—’
                ‘Mrs. Boynton was most welcome to the Ayôdhya pot,’ blurted out George
                    hastily.
                ‘Cela va sans dire! It is just because we love
                    to give the pretty things to the pretty creatures that it becomes unwise to let
                    the pretty creatures see the pretty things.’
                ‘Then it is your fault, to begin with,’ interrupted Rose hotly.
                ‘Exactly so. I'm sure, Miss Tweedie, you have heard me say a dozen times that we
                    men are to blame for all weaknesses of women.
                    They are simply the outcome our likes and dislikes; and they will remain so
                    until there is a perpetual leap?year.
                ‘For heaven's sake, Keene,’ said Dan, laughing, ‘lead the way to the potter's or
                    there will be murder done on the king's highway! Don't mind him, Miss Rose! He
                    “only says it to annoy because he knows it teases.” He doesn't really believe
                    anything of the kind.’
                Lewis, his eye?glass more aggressive than ever, murmured something under his
                    breath about the inevitable courses of nature, as Rose, with her head held very
                    high, followed George Keene into the potter's yard.
                It was a scene strangely at variance with the party entering it. Indeed, old Fuzl
                    Elahi, who had never before set eyes on an Englishwoman, would have started from
                    his work had not George detained him with reassuring words:
                ‘He tells his yarns best when he is at the wheel,’ he explained as he dragged
                    forward a low string stool for Rose. ‘And I want you to hear an awfully queer
                    one called “The Wrestlers.” You know enough of the language to understand him at
                    any rate.’
                ‘Miss Tweedie is a better scholar than most of
                    us,’ remarked Lewis Gordon curtly from the seat he had found beside Dan on a
                    great log of wood; one of those logs so often to be seen in such
                    courtyards?relics, perhaps, of some ineffectual intention of repair long since
                    forgotten. This one might, to all appearance, have fallen where it lay, in those
                    bygone days of which the potter told tales, when the now treeless desert had
                    been a swampy jungle on the borders of an inland sea.
                The afternoon sun, slanting over the grass palisades, played havoc with the
                    humanity it found gathered round the wheel by sending their shadows distorted to
                    long lengths across the yard, and tilting them at odd angles against the
                    irregular wall of the mud hut beyond. Altogether a conglomerate pyramid of
                    shadows, with the potter's high turban dominating it as he sat silent, spinning
                    his wheel. And as the clay curved and hollowed beneath his moulding hand a
                    puzzled look came to the light eyes, which, usually so shifty, were now fixed
                    with a sort of fascination upon that strange figure in the riding habit.
                ‘It is not there,’ he muttered uneasily, ‘I cannot find a clew.’
                
                George gave Rose the triumphant glance of a child displaying a mechanical toy
                    when it behaves as it ought to behave. The potter was evidently in a mad mood,
                    and might be trusted for a good performance.
                ‘Now, Fuzl Elahi, we want “The Wrestlers,” please. The Miss sahiba has never
                    heard it.’
                ‘How could she?’ broke in the old man sharply. ‘She does not belong to that old
                    time. She is new. I cannot even tell the old tale if she sits there in the
                    listener's place. I shall forget, the old will be lost in the new; as it is
                    ever.’
                ‘Change places with me, Miss Tweedie,’ put in Lewis with a bored look. ‘I am not
                    regenerate out of the old Adam, am I, potter?ji?’
                But as he rose the pliant hand went out in a gesture of denial. ‘There is room on
                    the log for both, and crows most with crows, pigeons with pigeons. The big
                    Huzoor can sit on the stool if he likes. I know him. I have seen him many and
                    many a time.’
                ‘Only once, potter?ji,’ protested Dan, as he and Rose changed places and the
                    wheel began to hum.
                ‘The post is going from Logborough junction to
                    St. Potter's burgh,’ murmured Lewis discontentedly. ‘If we are going to play
                    round games I shall go home.’
                ‘Do be quiet, Gordon!’ put in George eagerly; ‘he is just beginning, and it
                    really is worth hearing.’
                But Lewis was incorrigible. ‘Proxime accessit,’
                    he went on, to Rose, ‘what crime in your past incarnation is responsible for
                    your being bracketed with me in this?’
                ‘Oh, do listen,’ protested George again.
                ‘Listen! Who could help listening to that infernal noise?—I beg your pardon, Miss
                    Tweedie, but it is infernal.’
                It was startling, certainly. A shrill moan coming from the racing, rocking,
                    galloping wheel as the worker's body swayed to and fro like a pendulum. It
                    seemed to rouse a vague sense of unrest in the hearers, a dim discomfort like
                    the remembrance of past pain. Then suddenly the story began in a high?pitched
                    persistent voice, round which that racing, galloping rush of the wheel seemed to
                    circle, hurrying it, pushing at it, every now and again sweeping it along
                    recklessly.
                
                
                    
                        ‘It was a woman seeking something,
                        
                            Over hill and dale, through night and day, she sought for
                                something.
                        
                    
                    
                        The wrestlers who own the world wrestled for her,
                        On the palm of her right hand wrestling for her,
                        “She is mine, she is mine,” said one and the other,
                        
                            While over hill and dale, through night and day, she sought
                                something.
                        
                    
                    
                        “O flies! you tickle the palm of my hand,
                        Be off and wrestle down in your world.”
                        So they brought flowers and grass as a carpet,
                        Wrestling on as she sought for something—
                        
                            Over hill and dale, through night and day, seeking for
                                something.
                        
                    
                    
                        “Your carpet is hot, be off, you flies.”
                        So they brought her trees and water for cooling,
                        Wrestling on as she sought for something—
                        
                            Over hill and dale, through night and day, seeking for
                                something.
                        
                    
                    
                        “The grass grows long with the water,” she cried,
                        “Be off, O flies, and tickle your world.”
                        So they brought her flocks to devour the grass,
                        Wrestling on as she sought for something—
                        
                            Over hill and dale, through day and night, seeking for
                                something.
                        
                    
                    
                        “They have trodden my palm as hard as a cake.”
                        So they caught up a plough and ploughed her hand,
                        Wrestling on while she sought for something—
                        
                            Over hill and dale, through day and night, seeking for
                                something.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        “You have furrowed my palm; it tickles and smarts.”
                        So they brought a weaver and wove her lint,
                        Wrestling on while she sought for something—
                        
                            Over hill and dale, through night and day, seeking for
                                something.
                        
                    
                    
                        “Foul play! Foul play! Look down and decide,”
                        “Not I, poor flies, I must search for something.”
                        So they caught up a town to watch the game.
                        “He is right! He is wrong!” cried old and young.
                        “He is wrong! He is right!” And so war began.
                        While they wrestled away and she sought for something,
                        
                            Over hill and dale, through night and day, seeking for
                                something.
                        
                    
                    
                        “What a noise you make; I am tired of flies.”
                        So she swept them into a melon rind.
                        “Be quiet, flies! lie still in the dark.”
                        She clapped her palm to the hole in the rind.
                        “I'm tired of it all, I will go to sleep;
                        When morning comes I will seek for something—
                        Over hill and dale, through night and day, I must seek for
                                something.”
                    
                    
                        She rested her head on her palm, and slept,
                        Down in the valley close to the river;
                        Slept to the tune of the buzzing flies,
                        Wrestling and fighting about fair play.
                        And while she slept the big Flood came,
                        And the melon pillow floated away.
                        And all within swarmed out to the sun—
                        Grass, and herds, and ploughs, and looms.
                        People fighting for none knows what.
                        “I have made a new world,” she said, with a laugh.
                        “A brand?new world; and the flies have gone.
                        
                        But the palm of my right hand tickles still,
                        May be it will cool when I find what I seek.”
                        So she left her new world down by the river,
                        Left it alone and sought for something—
                        Over hill and dale, through night and day, seeking for
                                something.’
                    
                
                The galloping wheel, which had responded always to the mad hurry of the recurring
                    refrain, slackened slowly. Rose gave a sigh of relief, and glanced at Lewis
                    Gordon to see if he too had been oppressed by that shrinking recognition of a
                    stress, a strain, a desire, such as she had never felt before; but he was
                    leaning forward, his chin on his curved hand, intent on listening, so she could
                    not see his face.
                ‘By the powers,’ came Dan Fitzgerald's voice above the softening hum, ‘the old
                    chap has made an Ayôdhya pot—the same shape, I mean.’
                ‘He always does when he tells this story,’ broke in George quite pleased with the
                    success of his entertainment. ‘I don't think he quite knows why he does it,
                    however. Sometimes he says the woman was looking for one; sometimes that she
                    always carries one in her left hand to balance the world in her right. But he always takes the unbaked pot to the
                    ruins and buries it with two of those odd little ninepins, he calls men and
                    women, inside it. He is as mad as a hatter, you know.’
                ‘Several hatters,’ assented Gordon fervently, ‘but it is an interesting theory of
                    creation.’
                ‘Now don't,’ protested Dan, sitting with his long leg crunched up on the low
                    stool close to the potter. ‘It is too human for dissection by the Folklore
                    Society. But I'm surprised at one thing. The wrestlers—they are persistent
                    figures in Indian tales, Miss Tweedie—are generally represented as giants. They
                    are pigmies here.’
                ‘The Huzoor is right and wrong,’ replied the potter in answer to an inquiry; ‘the
                    pâilwans were neither pigmies nor giants. They were as the Huzoor—two and a half
                    hâths round the chest—neither more nor less.’
                ‘That's a good shot,’ remarked Dan in English, ‘forty five inches according to my
                    tailor. You have an accurate eye potter?ji,’ he added in Hindustani, ‘only half
                    an inch out.’
                ‘Not a hair's?breadth, Huzoor,’ replied the old
                    man mildly. ‘The measures of the pâilwans is the measure of the Huzoor. I have
                    it here; my fathers used it, and I use it.’
                He sought a moment in the little niche, hollowed, close to his right hand, out of
                    the hard soil forming the side of his sunken seat, and drew from it a fine
                    twisted cord of brown, red, and cream coloured wool. It was divided into
                    measures by small shells strung on the twist and knotted into their places.
                ‘Hullo!’ cried Gordon eagerly, ‘that must be hundreds of years old. Those are
                    sea?shells, and very rare. Simpson at the museum showed me one in fossil the
                    other day. I wonder how the dickens the old man got hold of them?’
                ‘Two and a half haths,’ repeated Fuzl Elahi absently, ‘the potter's full measure
                    for a man in the beginning and the end.’ He leaned forward rapidly as he spoke,
                    passed the cord round Dan Fitzgerald's chest, and drew the ends together. The
                    curled spirals of the two shells lay half an inch apart. ‘So much for the
                    garments,’ he muttered. ‘Yea! I knew it. The measure of a true pâilwan to a
                    hair's breadth.’
                
                ‘And what am I, potter?ji?’ asked George, laughing.
                The puzzled look came back to the old man's face. ‘The Huzoor may be a pâilwan
                    too. Times have changed.’
                ‘Rough on a fellow, rather!’ exclaimed the boy, still laughing. ‘Here, Fitz!
                    chuck me over the thing. Is that fair, Miss Tweedie?’
                She laughed back into his bright face, as he pulled his hardest to make the two
                    second shells meet, then shook her head.
                ‘Not on yourself, Mr. Keene. You are more of a hero than that, I should say.’
                The potter's eyes were on her, then back on George. ‘Everything is changed,’ he
                    muttered again, ‘even the measure of the pots.’
                ‘Then you measure them, do you?’ asked Gordon, to whom George had handed the
                    cord, and who was now examining it minutely.
                ‘Surely, Huzoor. The first one of each batch. Then the hand learns the make.’
                ‘Try what make you are, Gordon?’ suggested Dan.
                ‘Not I. Here, potter?ji, catch. Miss Tweedie and I, according to the best
                    authority, are abnormal; we are not ordinary pots, so I, for one, decline to be measured by their standard. And
                    now, if some of us are to be in time for such trivialities as dinner we ought to
                    be going.’
                The potter rose also and stepped out of his hole. Seen thus at full length, he
                    showed insignificant, his hairy, bandy, almost beast?like legs, contrasting
                    strangely with the mild high?featured face, with its expression of puzzled
                    anxiety, as he laid a deprecating hand on George Keene's sleeve.
                ‘Wants bucksheesh, I suppose,’ murmured Lewis. ‘I have some rupees somewhere, if
                    you want them, Keene.’ But it was not money; it was only leave to speak to the
                    ‘mâdr mihrbân.’
                ‘That's a nice name for you, Miss Rose,’ said Dan softly—‘Mother of mercy—a name
                    to be glad of.’
                She blushed as she went forward a step, asking, ‘What is it? what can I do for
                    you?’
                He stooped to touch her feet with his supple hands ere replying. ‘Huzoor! it is a
                    little thing. Fuzl 
                        Elahi
                        Elâhi
                    , potter of Hodinuggur, has a daughter somewhere. Perhaps she has gone
                    to the Huzoor's world; it is new, I do not know it. If the “mâdr mihrbân” were
                    to see her, she might tell her to come back—
                    just once—only once. I would not keep her. But now I have no answer when my
                    father says: ‘Where is thy little Azizan?’
                ‘Azizan!’ echoed George quickly. But the old man seemed almost to have forgotten
                    his own request. He stood looking past the strangers, past the village, past
                    even the ruins, into the sunset sky.
                ‘I will send her—if I see her,’ said Rose gently, with tears in her eyes; for
                    George had told her the story of the lost daughter, and the sudden, diffident
                    appeal touched her. Yet the vast gulf between her and the old man touched and
                    oppressed her still more, as she left him standing alone beside his wheel.
                ‘Well!’ said Lewis Gordon, when in silence they had reached the road again. ‘You
                    may call that amusement, Keene, if you like; I don't. When I get home, I shall
                    have a sherry and bitters.’
                ‘He is rather a gruesome old chap,’ admitted George cheerfully. ‘I felt a bit
                    creepy myself the first time I heard that song—by the way, Miss Tweedie, talking
                    of creepiness, did I tell you about the Potter's Thumb? I didn't! Oh,—that is
                    really a grand tale.’ He told it, happily, as
                    an excellent sequel to the show, while Dan, in one of his best moods, piled on
                    the imaginative agony about Hodinuggur generally, until Lewis announced his
                    intention of returning to the palace by the longer way. He would be late, of
                    course, but that was preferable to having no appetite for dinner!
                ‘By Jove! seven o'clock,’ cried Dan, looking at his watch. ‘And you and I,
                    George, have to get over to the bungalow. We must run for it.’
                Rose watched them racing down the path, laughing and talking as they ran, with a
                    troubled look.
                ‘Fine specimens, Miss Tweedie,’ remarked Lewis after a pause. ‘I don't think you
                    need fear their cracking in the fire.’
                ‘I—I—’ faltered Rose, taken aback by his comprehension.
                ‘Am Scotch! That's sufficient excuse. I notice we seldom get rid of our native
                    superstition. Besides, it was uncanny—the yard?measure and the
                    Potter's Thumb, and that horse?leech of a woman, who was never satisfied. I felt
                    it myself.’
                
                She knew he was speaking down to her as a nervous woman; yet she did not resent
                    it, because it was a distinct relief not to be taken seriously.
                ‘I wish they had not been measured, for all that,’ she persisted. ‘You will own
                    it was odd, won't you?’
                ‘Not so odd as Dan himself! He has been cracked ever since I knew him. And Keene
                    is one of the sterling sort, certain of success; besides, he measured himself!
                    Now, before you go upstairs to dress, if your Scotch blood is still curdling, as
                    mine is, have a half of sherry and bitters with me. Crows roost with crows, you
                    remember.’
                His friendliness beguiled her into playfulness.
                ‘Crows indeed! then I've a better opinion of you than you have of me. I thought
                    we were meant for the pigeons.’
                ‘To bill and coo?’
                If she could have boxed his ears, it would have relieved her feelings. As it was,
                    she raced upstairs, in a fury, without vouchsafing one word of resentment, and
                    paced up and down her tiny room with flaming cheeks. Could a girl be expected, for ever and aye, to be on
                    the outlook for such openings? Of course Gwen Boynton would have laughed
                    easily—would not have minded, perhaps; but then Gwen was charming—everything
                    apparently that a woman ought to be!
                Rose looked at herself in her dusty habit. She would have to go down to dinner in
                    it, and challenge comparisons with Gwen in her silks and tinsel. Why should she?
                    No one would care, no one would have a right to care if she did stay in her room
                    with a headache. The next instant she was ashamed of the impulse. What did it
                    matter?—they were welcome to their opinion. As for her, she would adopt no
                    feminine excuse; she would leave those little devices to men's women. So she
                    brushed her habit, and went out, with a heightened colour, to join the
                    others.
            
            
            
                CHAPTER IX
                ROSE TWEEDIE'S sneer against men's women lacked point, since it so
                    happened that Mrs. Boynton, in the opposite corner?room of the pavilion, was, at
                    the very moment, setting aside the temptation of pleading a headache as an
                    excuse for not appearing at dinner. And she had more reason to seek quiet than
                    the girl, though a new dress lay ready on the bed; for Gwen loved to dazzle her
                    world, and had spent some of her leisure in instructing a native tailor how to
                    run up a web of coarse native muslin bought in the bazaar into a very decent
                    semblance of a fashionable garment. But the pleasure of the trick had gone out
                    of it. Something had happened. Something incredible, yet, given the
                    surroundings, natural enough. Something about which she must make up her mind.
                    It seemed scarcely a minute ago since she had passed in swiftly to the solitude of her room in order to think. She, Gwen
                    Boynton, in native dress, with a white scared face and something in her hand.
                    Now she had to pass out of that room again as an English woman, and the
                    transition left her oddly undecided. Indeed, as she paused for a moment ere
                    taking the plunge, with one hand on the embroidered draperies doing duty as a
                    door, it seemed almost as if she were awaiting some command, some voice which
                    would relieve her of responsibility. Then she smiled and passed on to meet the
                    surprised admiration of her little world; for she had never looked better in her
                    life, and she knew it. The creamy muslin suited her in its careless folds, her
                    excitement showed itself becomingly in flushed cheeks and bright eyes, and the
                    chorus of wonder at her cleverness made her gracious beyond compare. They had
                    been away so long, she said, airily, that she had had to amuse herself somehow,
                    and were there not miles of muslin to be bought in every bazaar, and many men to
                    put stitches into it? Any one could have done it. Rose, listening with a certain
                    contempt in her look, told herself that Gwen said truth; any one could have done it who thought it worth while
                    to take so much trouble for the sake of personal effect; yet a regret rankled
                    somewhere, mingling with the resentment which came as Gwen called attention,
                    somewhat garishly, to more of her good works. Did they not admire the room? When
                    Colonel Tweedie had gone off to the Diwan she had consoled herself by pulling
                    about the furniture; and did not the Ayôdhya pot look sweet on the corner?stand
                    she had improvised out of three bamboos, a brass platter, and a yellow silk
                    scarf?
                ‘You should have packed it away in your box at once,’ remarked Lewis coolly.
                    ‘Keene may repent his good?nature, or some of us may steal it. The colour is
                    admirable.’ As he spoke he walked over to the stand as if for closer
                    examination.
                ‘Don't touch it, please,’ cried Mrs. Boynton hastily. ‘You—you will spoil my
                    draperies.’
                ‘A thousand pities, when they are so artistic,’ put in Colonel Tweedie, glad of
                    the opportunity. ‘That is dinner, Mrs. Boynton. I've had it laid in the small
                    pavilion so as to keep this as your drawing?room.’
                
                ‘Thanks! but everything is delightful; simply fascinating! In spite of what Mr.
                    Keene said this morning, I begin to wish I were a native.’
                ‘For the sake of the satin?’ asked Lewis, who was following close behind with
                    Rose. Gwen flashed back a brilliant look at him.
                ‘No! not the satin. That game would not be worth the candle.’
                Apart from the question of satin, Mrs. Boynton had excuse for admiring the
                        mise en scène. The violet sky, spangled
                    with stars, seemed made apparently but for one end—to hap and hold that terraced
                    roof which was clearly outlined against it by the light streaming from the
                    pavilions on to the fretted white marble balustrades. At the corners were
                    shadowy cupolas, and there in the arched summer?house at the farther end, close
                    upon the velvet darkness, was a table set with silver and glass, fruits and
                    flowers. At one side, so as to divide the ladies equally, Rose, in her habit,
                    doing the duty of hostess with a little air of gravity and pre?occupation; at
                    the other, Gwen, in her soft clouds of muslin, keeping the men in a state of
                    admiring gratification through their eyes and
                    their ears. They gathered round her too, when, dinner being over, they adjourned
                    to the balconies for coffee and cigars. It was deliciously cool; a faint breeze
                    stirred Rose's hair as she sat a little apart from the others watching the
                    twinkling lights go up and down the stair which formed the only tie between that
                    world on the roof and that world in the courtyard below.
                ‘We ought to go to bed early,’ said Lewis, coming to stand before her. ‘You are
                    half?asleep—no wonder, after last night!—and Gwen is what superstitious Scotch
                    folk call “fey.” Then, if we have to join that detestable hawking?party
                    to?morrow morning, we shall have to get up at five.’
                ‘You needn't go unless you like,’ she replied curtly. ‘Mrs. Boynton has cried
                    off.’
                ‘I am not Mrs. Boynton's personal assistant, Miss Tweedie; I happen to be your
                    father's—so duty calls.’ As he spoke he seated himself on the balustrade and
                    leant forward, his elbows on his knees, to watch the group or the other side of
                    the arcade.
                ‘If I didn't know that Gwen despises that sort of thing,’ he went on in
                    dissatisfied tones, ‘I should say she had
                    rouged this evening. Her way of showing fatigue, I presume; though, of course,
                    neither of you have the common?sense to confess you are tired. Women are all
                    ascetics at heart; at least they believe in the virtue of martyrdom. They have
                    different ways of showing it, that's all. Gwen spends her fatigue in
                    dress?making and conversation to please, and you, I'll go bail, haven't even a
                    proper bandage on that scorched arm—’
                ‘Mr. Gordon!’
                ‘Yes! I saw you imagined I was blind—suppose we say like to imagine it; but I
                    really had my eye?glass, Miss Tweedie. Besides, it doesn't require microscopic
                    sight to see some things.’
                ‘What a profound remark!’ interrupted Rose, to hide her pleased surprise at his
                    unusual consideration. At the same moment Gwen's gay laugh rang out, soft yet
                    clear. Either the sound or the speech annoyed the hearer on the balustrade, for
                    he frowned as he slipped his dangling feet to the floor.
                ‘As profound as I can make it this evening, for I'm not ashamed to confess myself
                        dog? tired. Couldn't tell a crow from a
                    pigeon; so I shall be off. Good?night, Miss Tweedie, I wish you would persuade
                    Gwen to go to bed. It is easier to give good advice than to take it.’
                Rose remained looking at the twinkling lights, and wondering if Lewis were really
                    jealous of his cousin, till seeing the others go back to the central
                    summer?house she followed suit.
                ‘Tired!’ echoed Gwen sharply, in reply to her information that Lewis Gordon had
                    stolen away. ‘Are we not all tired? I feel as if I had been up since the
                    beginning of time seeking for something I could not find. My bed, perhaps.
                    Good?night, Rose.’
                They were an odd couple, as they bent to kiss each other in that mirrored room,
                    where the oddness was reflected again and again in the myriad scraps of
                    looking?glass on the walls. Each curved fragment giving and taking an eternity
                    of Gwen's and Rose's bending to kiss each other.
                
                    ‘I am tired of it all, I will go to sleep;
                    When morning comes I will seek for something,
                    Over hill and dale, through night and day, I must seek for
                            something.’
                
                
                The remembrance evoked by Gwen's chance words sent a little shiver through the
                    girl; and with it came a sudden pulse of sympathy for the woman who, now that
                    she saw her close, did indeed look haggard and worn.
                ‘No wonder you are tired,’ she said gently. ‘Even I feel as if I could sleep for
                    days.’
                ‘But you are coming to hawk surely,’ broke in George. ‘Do, please! it won't be
                    any fun without you.’
                ‘Not a bit,’ assented Dan. ‘Gordon ordered your horse, I know, and told them to
                    take you your tea at five punctually.’
                ‘You must go, Rose,’ put in Gwen with a shrug of her white shoulders. ‘Diana
                        Chasseresse mustn't disappoint her
                    votaries. I'm glad my habit was burnt.’
                She did not look it, and Rose, as she went off to her corner room wondered if
                    Gwen could be jealous of her. The idea was absurd, but pleasing; and she fell
                    asleep placidly over variations of the possibility.
                But just over the way with that dark mirrored room between them, Gwen lay awake,
                    with one hand thrust under the pillow where she could feel a tiny paper parcel.
                        Should she keep it, or should she not?
                    Should she say anything of the scene burnt in on her memory, or should she not?
                    She seemed to see it as a spectator, not as the only actor in it. To see a woman
                    in native dress in that room set round with eyes; the Ayôdhya pot in her hand,
                    and in her tinsel?edged veil the jewels which had fallen from its false bottom.
                    Jewels which if sold would buy her freedom, perhaps save her, and Dan too, from
                    a great mistake. It was a chance. A chance most likely unknown to any one in the
                    wide world save herself, for who would have knowingly sold a pot containing
                    three huge pearls and an emerald for ten rupees? Nor was she bound to give more
                    to the seller. Land was bought so, but if the mines were found afterwards, that
                    was the buyer's good luck. Facts like these, accepted apparently by the honest
                    and honourable, go far to give such as Gwen immoral support. No one could
                    possibly know; she herself would not have known save for that chance slip, and
                    the eyes made keen and eager through fear of some slight injury to the
                    treasure.
                It was a chance of escape, and the danger had
                    come home to her sharply in the past twenty?four hours. The danger of yielding
                    to her own weakness about Dan made clear by his actions; the new danger,
                    suggested by his words, of her losing her hold on Lewis. Could he really be
                    attracted by Rose? The events of the evening gave colour to the possibility. If
                    so, there was no time to be lost. She must be free; free to do as she chose. No
                    one would know. Nobody would dream of bribing one so powerless as she. And if
                    the jewels had been put there knowingly, it was only her risk. No one else was
                    responsible. Lewis had said so—
                So she argued, coming round always to the same thought, till the first glint of
                    dawn brought sleep, as it so often does to weary eyes. Perhaps in the thought
                    that the sun will rise, the world go on, no matter what we do, or think, or
                    say.
                She slept so soundly that all the bustle of the hawking party failed to disturb
                    her; and when that was over the long stretch of terraced roof lay empty of all
                    sound or sign of life, save for the green parrots shrieking and swooping about
                    the carven work. A pair of them had built in a
                    loophole, whence the young ones kept up a simmering, bubbling noise, like a
                    boiling tea?kettle; a comfortable homely sound out of keeping with the bare
                    beauty of stone, and sunlight, and hard blue sky.
                Down in the courtyard below, two badge wearers in scarlet and gold lounged on the
                    stairs, barring the roof from intrusion, chatting to the passers?by, and
                    discussing the news which had just been brought in by the camel which was
                    crouching beside a pile of fodder in the centre of the yard, while its owner
                    stretched his limbs, cramped with riding all night across the desert, in front
                    of the cook?room. Halfway up the stairs on the landing leading to the
                    state?rooms, Mrs. Boynton's ayah squatted, combining business with pleasure, by
                    being within reach of a call and her forbidden hookah, at one and the same time.
                    A bundle of letters lay beside her, intended as a peace?offering against the
                    possible smell of smoke.
                The sun climbed up silently, shifting the shadows on the silent roof. That was
                    the only movement, until suddenly a figure in a white domino peered through the
                        grille which barred the flight of steps
                    leading to the Diwan's tower. Then came the
                    grate of a rusty key in a lock, and the figure flitted, silently as the shadows,
                    to the summer?house, and paused in the mirror?room. Perhaps the transformation
                    which Western taste and Mrs. Boynton's clever fingers had wrought in its
                    adornment, was pleasing, perhaps the reverse. The burka,
                    however, is of all disguises the most complete, since it blots out form, colour,
                    expression, even movement. The figure showed indeed like a white extinguisher in
                    the centre of the room, until, with a swaying of ample folds it glided over to
                    the corner stand where the Ayôdhya pot stood out from Gwen's artistic drapery.
                    Then something slid out, still shrouded in white folds, from the extinguisher,
                    raised the vase, shook it slightly, replaced it, and slid back again in a
                    horrible invertebrate protoplasmic sort of movement, calculated to send a shiver
                    through a spectator. But there was none. The thing had the whole roof to itself
                    save for that fair?haired sleeper in the corner room who lay with one hand
                    clasping a little packet hidden under her pillow. Her face was turned to the
                    doorway in full view of those latticed eye?holes belonging to the
                        burka, which after a
                    time came to look in on her from the half?raised curtain, and let in with a
                    shaft of sunshine, a vista of blue skies and marble balustrades with two red and
                    green parrots pecking at each other. It may have been the light, more probably
                    the disturbing effect the dim consciousness of other eyes fixed on our own has
                    upon most people, which roused Gwen Boynton. But she opened hers suddenly and
                    started up in bed, her heart throbbing violently, though the curtain had fallen
                    and not a sound was to be heard.
                ‘Comin', mem sahiba, comin',’ came in immediate answer to her imperative call as
                    the ayah, thrusting her hookah aside, snatched at the letters, and shook what
                    smoke she could from her voluminous garments. A trifling delay, but enough to
                    allow the thing up?stairs to flit round the summer?house again; even to pause a
                    second at the grille.
                ‘It makes too much noise. I will leave it open,’ it muttered as it disappeared up
                    the steps with the rusty key held in its formless clasp.
                ‘Where were you?’ asked Gwen, her heart still throbbing. ‘And who was that who looked in on me from the door? There was some
                    one: I'm sure there was some one.’
                ‘Me, mem sahiba,’ grinned the woman readily. ‘Me, ayah. Look in several time. Mem
                    always neendi par; sota! sota! like baba¹. Ayah waitin' close to bring dâk. Many letters for mem sahiba.’
                Mrs. Boynton looked at her doubtfully. It was not the ayah whom she had seen; of
                    that she felt certain. On the other hand, if the woman really had been sitting
                    outside was more than probable the whole thing was a dream. No harm had come of
                    it, anyhow; so five minutes after she was dividing her attention between early
                    tea and a long epistle from an absent admirer. Gwen's victims were always
                    excellent correspondents, perhaps because of that gracious indifference in which
                    lay her great charm, since a letter had quite as good a chance as a man of
                    whiling away her kindly, sympathetic leisure.
                But when the ayah was brushing at the pretty hair Gwen's mind reverted to the
                    question which had kept her awake. As so often happens—the learned say by
                    unconscious 
                        cere?
                        cerebration
                    
                    On
                        sleep—sleeping, sleeping like a child. bration—it appeared to have settled itself.
                    Independently of Dan, or any secondary matter of that sort, money would be
                    useful. Most useful, seeing she had just lost the best part of her wardrobe and
                    had a season at Simla in immediate prospect. Now she came to think of it,
                    Hodinuggur owed her some reparation for the loss it had inflicted upon her.
                    Besides, it would be wiser to wait and see if the presence of jewels in the pot
                    were suspected by any one or not. If the latter, it would clearly be flying in
                    the face of a good Providence to mention her discovery. So, by the time she was
                    ready to face her world, that world seemed quite simple and easy to face.
                Chândni thought the same thing as she sat at the Diwan's feet in the big
                    balconied room of the tower overlooking the canal, telling him in whispers of
                    the success of her plan so far. The jewels were no longer in the pot. The mem
                    must have them, for, as she had found out through a khitmutgar, the mem had been
                    alone during many hours, and had been making a mess in the room with trumpery
                    platters and pots.
                ‘She may send it back yet,’ said the Diwan
                    cautiously. ‘Lo! I am old, and this I have learnt through long years: Trust not
                    a woman not to change her mind till she be dead.’
                The courtesan laughed. ‘'Tis as well for some men she is born so, father. But a
                    night's thought is as death to a woman. Life is too short to give more to such
                    things. And that night is over without a sign. Give her yet one more, an thou
                    wilt; after that, say that Chândni hath dug the channel 'Twill be thy task to
                    turn the water into it.’
            
            
            
                CHAPTER X
                AMONG those things which come by Nature and are not to be taught, may be
                    reckoned a pretty seat on horseback. One may be a good rider without it, a poor
                    one with it; but when grace and skill are combined a man certainly shows at his
                    best on horseback. It was so with Lewis Gordon. He sat his lean little
                    country?bred as if it belonged to him; not as the usual phrase runs, as if he
                    were part of his horse. For that is a description which ignores the essence of
                    the thing to be described; which is, surely, the mastery a man has over
                    something which is not himself. Part of his horse! The very words
                    conjure up a man paralysed to the waist and jelly above, agonising over a
                    cavalry seat.
                If Lewis Gordon were grateful to Providence for anything, it was for making and
                    keeping him a light weight, and thus rendering him independent of Australian or
                    Arab mounts. The fourteen?hand pony which he
                    had picked up—a mere bag of bones—at a native fair, had to be hard held when
                    trotting alongside of Colonel Tweedie's big Waler, yet she had only cost him a
                    tenth of the price. As she forged along, quivering with impatience, Bronzewing
                    was a pretty sight, the sunlight shining red through her wide nostrils, and
                    shifting in golden curves over the bronze muscles which were almost black in
                    shadow. Rose Tweedie always admired it immensely, and, illogically enough, felt
                    inclined to be more lenient on the rider. She told herself it was because he
                    wore spectacles on horseback, and they were less offensive than the eyeglass,
                    which permitted variations of method in his outlook. She did not even fall foul
                    of his indifference when he dawdled about, a picture of aimless dejection, at
                    the hawking party; in fact, she had sneaking sympathy with his feelings. It
                        was dreary work watching unfortunate grey partridges beaten up
                    from one bush by coolies, only to be pounced on by a hawk ere it could reach the
                    shelter of the next cover. She also shared his disgust at Dalel Beg, who, in
                    top?boots, red coat, and doeskins, took a keen
                    interest in the gorging of young hawks on the entrails of the still struggling
                    victims, and gave shrill ‘yoicks’ and ‘gone aways’ at each fresh flutter.
                    Khush?hâl Beg watching the sport from a bullock?cart on which he reclined among
                    cushions was purely comical; his son purely offensive.
                ‘I think,’ remarked Lewis slowly, ‘he is the worst specimen of civilisation I
                    ever met; and I think this is the deadliest entertainment I ever was at. And
                    both those facts mean something.’
                Rose laughed, and suggested that it would have been different had they come
                    across bustard. They, she had heard, were worth hawking. Her companion shook his
                    head.
                ‘I've seen it on the frontier at its best. You lose the essence of sport; that, I
                    take it, lies in pitting your strength, or skill, or endurance against the
                    quarry. In hawking you ride behind the skill; and as the country is easy, the
                    whole thing resolves itself into the pace of your horse; in other words, what
                    you paid for the beast.’
                ‘Not always! I'd back Bronzewing against the field any day,’ cried Rose
                    impulsively.
                He looked up with quite a flush of pleasure.
                    ‘Well! she should do her best to win the gloves for you, Miss Tweedie.’
                The reply came as naturally as the remark which provoked it, but it made the girl
                    feel suddenly shy and say hastily—
                ‘She looks as if she wanted to be off now; how that partridge startled her!’
                ‘Not a bit of it. She is only longing, as I am, for a hunt.’
                ‘A hunt?’
                ‘Yes! a partridge?hunt. Have you never seen one?’ He gave a rapid glance round.
                    ‘There are too many bushes here, but Keene may know of some fairly?open country,
                    with perhaps a thorn?hedge or two for you to jump—that is to say, if you have
                    had enough of this festive scene.’
                Five minutes after, George Keene, Dan Fitzgerald, Lewis Gordon, and she were
                    sweeping along in line across low sand?hills in order to dip down into a harder
                    plain among stretches of level, dotted sparsely with low caper?bushes, with here
                    and there a patch of cultivation showing vividly green against its whitey?brown
                    frame of desert, and here and there a bit of plough ready for the summer
                    crop.
                
                There is nothing more invigorating in the world than riding in line at a
                    hand?gallop across such country in the freshness of early morning, especially
                    when the party has gay hearts and light heads. Rose felt that it was worth all
                    her purely feminine amusements put together, and, with a flush of enjoyment on
                    her face, besieged Lewis Gordon with high?pitched questions as to what they were
                    going to do; he calling back his answers, so that their voices rose above the
                    rhythmical beating of the horses' hoofs.
                ‘We are going without dog or coolie, gun or any lethal weapon whatever—as the
                    code says—to ride down and capture the grey partridge or Ammoperdix bonhami! Have you seen it done, Fitzgerald?’
                ‘Heard of it only. The pace must be good.’
                ‘Racing speed; no less. Therein lies the fun.’ He gave a quick glance at Rose's
                    tackle, and frowned. ‘You should have a stronger bit,’ he began when she
                    interrupted him.
                ‘It is the same as yours.’
                ‘Perhaps. But a lady can't ride like a man, especially in this sort of work. If I
                    had noticed it before, I—’
                
                ‘Nonsense! I always ride with a snaffle, and Shâhzâd is as steady as a
                    house.’
                ‘That is no argument. In my opinion a lady should—’
                The rest of the wrangle was spared to the company, for at that moment a partridge
                    buzzed out of a bush at their feet, Bronzewing's equanimity gave way, and with a
                    snort of eagerness she burst after it, Shâhzâd following suit; both beasts
                    heading straight as a die after the quarry, heedless of their riders or their
                    discussions.
                ‘Give him his head, Miss Tweedie,’ shouted Lewis, as he shot past. ‘He has done
                    it before and knows the game! Off we are!’
                Off indeed, helter?skelter, behind the grey?brown buzz of wings showing against a
                    blue sky.
                ‘Ride it! Ride it! Keep an eye on it! I'll do back,’ came Lewis Gordon's voice,
                    boyishly excited, as, with hands down, he veered the mare a point or two by main
                    force, until, as she caught sight of a heavier clump of bushes comprehension
                    came to the game little beast, and she headed straight for it.
                ‘Where? Oh! Where?’ cried Rose 
                        dis?
                        distractedly
                     tractedly to Dan Fitzgerald, who was
                    now racing beside her.
                ‘Right ahead—there—don't you see?’
                Just a brown speck against the blue sky still, skimming faster and faster to meet
                    the brown horizon. There still, no—yes—
                Gone!
                Rose gave a cry, which was echoed by an exclamation from Dan, as instinctively
                    they reined up, feeling the chase was over. George, hurrying up from behind,
                    where his pony had been playing the fool, found them staring disconsolately at
                    the bushes.
                ‘Lost it, I suppose,’ said Lewis, as he rejoined them. ‘It is always difficult to
                    keep it in sight on the horizon. However, you have had a good burst, Miss
                    Tweedie. See! we started there—a good mile back. Have you any idea how you got
                    here?’
                ‘None! I suppose I rode; but I saw nothing but a sort of big bumble?bee buzzing
                    in front of me. Shâhzâd did the rest.’
                ‘As I said, not for the first time, which confirms me in saying he is only a Gulf
                    Arab, for partridge?hunting is a Persian sport. Only don't tell your father, please; he would never
                    forgive me.’
                As he turned in his saddle, resting one hand on the mare's quarters in order to
                    speak to Rose, voice and face full of almost boyish enjoyment, the girl felt
                    that this was a new development of his character, and that she liked it better
                    than the ones she knew.
                ‘Now, as we go along, I'll explain. That bird took us by surprise,’ he went on
                    eagerly. ‘Four is an ideal number, though I've had rare fun riding partridge
                    single?handed. Number one ought to make the pace, keeping both eyes on the bird.
                    Number two keeps his on the going, so as to save Number one from coming to grief
                    over rough country. Number three rides cautious, land?marks the flight, and is
                    ready to turn if the bird breaks back—you can't when you are going full speed,
                    unless the bird towers. Number four rides cunning, cuts off curves, and heads
                    for likely covers. The whole aim being to press the partridge so hard that it
                    has no time to settle in shelter, but, after skimming down to a bush, runs
                    through it, and takes to wing again on the other side.’
                ‘And gets away, I suppose,’ muttered George
                    Keene, still out of temper. ‘Don't see the fun of it.’
                ‘Wait a bit,’ retorted Lewis gaily. ‘Now you must remember that the rôle you have to play depends on how the bird
                    breaks. There is no time to settle. The nearest in must ride it, the rest choose
                    their parts as best—steady, mare, steady!’
                It was only a faint ‘te?tetar—te?tetar,’ in the far distance, but Bronzewing
                    started, and even George's pony cocked its ears; while humanity went on
                    breathlessly in line, the horses' feet at a walk giving out a hollow sound on
                    the hard soil, the yellow sunshine casting hard shadows.
                ‘Look out!’ cautioned Lewis, in a whisper. ‘There's a partridge running on ahead;
                    by you, I think, Fitzgerald.’
                ‘Don't see it!’
                ‘Farther to the left. The mare sees it. We must trot a bit, or it won't rise
                    fair. Steady, lass, steady!’
                ‘I see it,’ came in excited tones from George, ‘by the big bush, Miss
                    Tweedie.’
                ‘That's another,’ cautioned Lewis again. ‘Take care and don't—’
                
                    Whirr, buzz! Whirr, buzz!
                
                
                ‘Ride it! Ride it!’
                The cry came from two quarters; but Shâhzâd was already extended, and Rose
                    forgetful of everything save those brown wings low down against the horizon. She
                    was closer on them this time, for she could see their skimming swoop as they
                    neared a heavy clump of cover. Yet she felt she must lose them, as she had done
                    before when to her relief she saw Lewis shoot ahead.
                ‘All right,’ he shouted, ‘I'm on. Look out for yourself.’
                There was a cut of his thong against thorns as he rose Bronzewing to a hedge
                    which Rose had not seen. But she had scarcely steadied herself in the saddle
                    from the half?considered leap in his wake before the partridge was down and up
                    again at right?angles to its first flight; Lewis meanwhile bringing the mare
                    round all he knew, and shouting, ‘Ride it, Miss Tweedie! ride it.’
                Shâhzâd, still steadied by the jump, was in hand and on the track in a second,
                    snorting in mad hurry and excitement, and the bird was not quite so fast this
                    time, or Rose was riding straighter, for she saw the last skim of the wings change to running feet as it touched the grey
                    brown earth which tinted so perfectly with its plumage.
                ‘Not there! not there!’ came that warning voice from behind. ‘It's run on. The
                    next bush—put Shâhzâd over it.’
                A leap, a scurry, a flutter, and the quarry was up again, heading in its hurry
                    for an impossible open, backed by bare plough. Bronzewing being now alongside,
                    Rose found leisure to glance round for the others.
                ‘Gone after the second partridge,’ said Lewis. ‘I was afraid of it. There's a
                    hedge twenty yards ahead, Miss Tweedie, I'll mark.’
                They were over it, almost in the stride, and now the bird was below the horizon,
                    a mere shadow of darker brown against the plough.
                ‘I've lost it! I've lost it again!’ The despairing cry came from Rose's very
                    heart as she tugged vainly at Shâhzâd. When she succeeded in bringing him up,
                    she saw that Lewis was slipping from the mare.
                ‘All right!’ he cried cheerfully, dropping his white handkerchief on the ground,
                    ‘it's somewhere about! That's the place I marked; now for sharp eyes.’
                
                Up and down the bare furrows he searched, followed by Bronzewing, her reins
                    dangling. Up and down, with such patience, that Rose, gaining confidence, began
                    to search also. Only, however, to lose hope, as minute after minute brought no
                    result.
                ‘I don't believe it's here,’ she remarked at last; and with the words saw Lewis
                    Gordon stoop to pick up something she had passed by, thinking it was a clod of
                    earth.
                ‘Your first partridge!’ he said with a kindly laugh, as he placed the bird upon
                    her lap. There it lay unhurt, wide?eyed and motionless as it had lain among the
                    furrows.
                ‘Why doesn't it fly away?’ asked Rose, with a little catch in her breath, as she
                    gently stroked the mottled back.
                ‘It will, soon. At present it's winded. Give it five minutes, and we could ride
                    it again; but we won't. It flew game, and I needn't ask if you enjoyed it.’
                No need, certainly. The very horses panting, nose down in each other's faces,
                    seemed discussing past pleasure.
                ‘It is safe from kites now,’ said Lewis. ‘Throw it up, Miss Tweedie.’
                
                The next instant a skimming flight had ended in a covert of thorns and Lewis was
                    on his mare ready to start.
                ‘It wouldn't head for the open again, I bet,’ he said, ‘they get as 'cute as an
                    old fox after a time. To your left, please, that rise yonder is Hodinuggur.’
                ‘But we might ride again, surely? It would give the others time to come up,’
                    began Rose, fiercely bitten with the game.
                ‘Best not. The ground here is bad going; all littered with bricks. And you could
                    barely hold Shâhzâd that last time. A snaffle is hard work—for a lady.’
                Rose refrained from open retort. Lewis had given her a morning's amusement, and
                    she owed him something; for all that, she made a mental determination to ride
                    partridge as often as she chose with a snaffle. His objection was only part of
                    that wholesale depreciation—here a partridge buzzed out of a bush, and partly
                    from impulse, partly from sheer opposition, she gave Shâhzâd the rein. A bit of
                    bravado in which she reckoned without the excited horse. Ere she had gone fifty
                    yards, she realised it had the bit between its teeth. What was worse, she saw that Lewis realised it
                    also.
                ‘Look out for bricks,’ he called, spurring Bronzewing alongside for a moment,
                    ‘and don't try to follow when the bird breaks back, as it is sure to do, for
                    cover.’
                The words were still on his lips, when the partridge towered and turned. Shâhzâd,
                    no novice at such tricks, pulled up short, nearly throwing Rose over his ears.
                    Then, with a bound, he dashed off sideways, catching Bronzewing on the flank as
                    she swerved, and throwing her rider's foot from the stirrup. The mare staggered,
                    pulled herself together smartly, set her hoof on a loose brick, and came down
                    heavily; while Rose, tugging vainly at her beast, went sailing away to the
                    horizon, with the memory of that crashing fall seeming to paralyse her strength.
                    When she did manage to turn, Bronzewing was on her feet; but her rider lay where
                    he had fallen. The girl's heart stood still an instant in that utmost fear which
                    will come first—was he dead? Yet, as she galloped back she told
                    herself, fiercely, that it was impossible; people fell so often, and did not
                    hurt themselves. But not, surely, to lie as he
                    lay, with eyes wide open and one arm under him as if he had pitched
                    head?foremost. Rose had never seen an accident before, and at first all her
                    helpfulness seemed lost in a senseless desire to gather him up in her arms and
                    hold him safe. Then the thought of her own foolishness came to her aid. He had
                    been right! Women were no good! A man would have known what to do, and as she
                    thought these things, she searched, comically enough, in his pockets for a
                    flask, as if unconsciously reverting to the first resource of the male animal;
                    but she could find none, and there was no water. What was to be done, save to
                    chafe his hands and call to him vainly, while a perfect agony of negation
                    clamoured against her growing fear. He could not be dead! He was such a good
                    rider. He must have fallen before and not been killed. Why should he be killed
                    this time? He could not be killed on such a bright sunny morning—when they had
                    been so happy—when he had been so kind. Ridiculous, trivial little thoughts,
                    such as make up the sum of such scenes.
                Finally she rose, resolved by her very despair. Water and help she must have.
                        If no nearer than the palace, then to the
                    palace she must go. Shâhzâd had taken advantage of liberty to seek a wheat
                    field, but Bronzewing would carry her with the stirrup over. The mare, however,
                    distrusting strangers, sidled off, still circling faithfully round her master.
                    Then the girl's hopes and fears centred themselves on the immediate necessity
                    for success. She coaxed, wheedled, cajoled, forgetting all else, till all of a
                    sudden Bronzewing paused to whinny, and Rose, looking round instinctively,
                    recognised the magnitude of her past despair in the light of her great relief as
                    she saw Lewis Gordon, raised on one elbow, looking at her in a dazed sort of
                    way. She was on her knees beside him in a minute, confessing the past fear she
                    had so strenuously denied while it existed.
                ‘I thought you were dead!’ she cried. ‘I thought you were dead.’ She was
                    trembling and shaking all over, quite visibly, and he gave an unsteady
                    laugh.
                ‘Thumped the back of my head; that's all. No!’ a spasm of pain passed over his
                    face as he sat up. ‘My collarbone's gone. Well! it might have been worse. The
                    ground is uncommonly hard.’
                
                Worse indeed! Rose could not speak for a lump in her throat; but the loquacity of
                    escape was upon him.
                ‘Must have pitched on my shoulder, luckily. I don't in the least remember how it
                    happened. We were partridging I suppose; but my mind is an absolute blank. No
                    wonder my head is just splitting; but I can walk home all right.’
                And when she proposed riding Bronzewing for help, he negatived it firmly on the
                    ground that the mare wasn't broken in for a lady; a man never having such a
                    strong hold on his individual quips and cranks as when he realises that he has
                    been within an ace of losing them altogether; whence comes the proverbial
                    captiousness of convalescents.
                So she had to be content with giving him a hand up and walking beside him,
                    feeling a sad trembling in the knees joined to a general sensation of having
                    gone to pieces. He, on the contrary, talking and laughing in magnificent, manly
                    fashion.
                ‘You had better tell me how it happened,’ he said, as they neared the palace.
                    ‘People make such a fuss, that it is as well to be prepared. Did you see me come
                    to grief?’
                
                Rose hesitated for a moment to own up; then she did it wholesale.
                ‘You told me not to ride because of the snaffle, but I did. I lost control of
                    Shâhzâd; he charged Bronzewing. She put her foot on a loose brick, and—and I'm
                    very, very sorry.’
                ‘Stupid little beast,’ he said, looking round at the mare, who was following them
                    like a dog. ‘I expect she wants re?shoeing.’
                The evasion was kindly meant; but she regretted it. It seemed somehow to set her
                    aside. But this was her portion in all things, for with Lewis in his room,
                    scientifically bandaged by Dan and nursed by his cousin, Rose's part resolved
                    itself into doing audience for her father's fussing. He had a capacity for it at
                    all times, but Fate had provided him with special reasons for it now. Another
                    delay! and when it was absolutely necessary that he should hold a Canal
                    Committee at Delhi early in the week, how was he to manage without his personal
                    assistant? Then there were private reason for annoyance which he did not confide
                    to Rose, but which that clear?sighted young lady fully understood. If Lewis
                        had to remain a few days longer at
                    Hodinuggur, his cousin would remain also; in which case Dan Fitzgerald would
                    stay to look after them. Now Dan, ever since the fire, had been in the Colonel's
                    black books. He had, as it were, thrust himself forward and made himself
                    conspicuous. Finally, any woman must feel gratitude to a man who had saved her
                    life. It was all of a piece—all the result of disobedience to his superior
                    wisdom. Why had Rose set fire to the camp? Had he not warned her a hundred times
                    against sitting up to read? Why had she charged Lewis? Had he not begged her
                    fifty times to ride in a more reserved and ladylike fashion?
                Rose could only fall back on George for comfort, and he, for reasons of his own,
                    was utterly unsympathetic. A broken collar?bone, he said, was nothing—except an
                    awful nuisance to every one else. To tell truth, the only person in that
                    up?stairs world who was satisfied at the new turn affairs had taken was Gwen
                    Boynton. It suited her admirably in more ways than one. So she sat after lunch
                    and talked with Colonel Tweedie in the balcony until his ill?humour vanished in a bland flood of conviction that this
                    eminently charming woman really was full of sympathy for his difficulties, and
                    thoroughly impressed with his responsible position. In fact, when she had
                    apologised for returning to duty and her patient, he came and let loose his
                    satisfaction upon his daughter. Nothing was more useful to a man having
                    authority than the companionship of a really sensible woman of the world. It
                    enabled you to do justice to yourself, to adopt the course you considered best
                    without undue hesitation. Therefore he would start for Rajpore, as he had always
                    intended to do, on the following day, taking Mr. Fitzgerald with him to supply
                    Gordon's place. He knew something of the current work, and it would be a
                    kindness, serving to show—er—that—er—there was really nothing against him at
                    headquarters.
                ‘That was very considerate of Mrs. Boynton,’ interrupted Rose quickly. She saw
                    the meaning of this manœuvre so far that it roused her resentment, even though,
                    after all, it would be better for Dan than dangling about with a sore heart
                    while Gwen nursed the sick man. Better for George also, since the partie carrée
                    could not well consist of three and a dummy. George should talk to her, and so
                    be kept from dangling also.
                Thus Dan himself was the only one to look blank at the proposal, and even he
                    admitted its reasonableness when Mrs. Boynton pointed out the many advantages it
                    would have. This was during the tête?à?tête,
                    in a bell?shaped cupola, which she allowed him over their tea. To tell truth,
                    Gwen always behaved with the strictest and most impartial justice to all who had
                    claims upon her, and she would have felt herself unkind had she allowed poor
                    dear Dan to go away feeling aggrieved. She was very sorry he had to go, or
                    rather, to be strictly accurate, she was sorry that common?sense dictated that
                    he should go. Had all things been consenting, there was no one in the wide world
                    she would so gladly have had for a husband. Now, when a woman of Mrs. Boynton's
                    type, which is at all times kindly disposed to lovers, has an idea of this sort
                    firmly fixed in her mind, she can be very kind indeed, even in her dismissals.
                    So Dan was perfectly happy after he had sat beside her, and given her a second cup of tea, and handed her the
                    bread and butter, though he made wry faces over her lecture on the necessity for
                    subordinating his opinions to Colonel Tweedie's.
                ‘And, Dan,’ she said, when the tête?à?tête, had
                    lasted long enough, ‘as you are going to Delhi, you might take a parcel for me
                    to Manohar Lal, the jeweller's. It is quite small, but you might just send it
                    round—the shop is in the Chowk—by the bearer. I wouldn't trouble you, but it is
                    a chance, as you are going that way. It won't bother you, will it?’
                ‘Bother,’ echoed Dan in the tones which men in his condition use on such
                    occasions.
                ‘Then, I'll give it you now. I was going to send it by post, so it is addressed,
                    and all the instructions are inside; but it would be safer if you took it—as you
                    happen to be going.’
                She repeated the phrase as if to convince herself of its truth. Yet when, on
                    returning with her commission, Dan seized the opportunity of taking the parcel
                    to kiss the fingers which held it, she felt something of a traitor. Even though,
                    in sending the jewels she had found to be
                    appraised, she told herself she had no other intention beyond, if possible,
                    getting enough money to repay the loan she had so unwisely taken. That was all;
                    and this chance of sending to Delhi by a safe hand had decided her so far—no
                    more.
                ‘Good?bye, dear Dan,’ she said; ‘I always miss you so much when you go away.’
                That night Chândni reported progress to the Diwan. The mem's ayah had let out
                    that the big Huzoor, Fitzgerald sahib, was the greatest friend the mem had. She
                    must be a regular bad one, if all tales were true. And the big sahib was going
                    to Delhi, the most likely place in which jewels would be sold. She would write
                    to her craft, who were good clients of the goldsmiths, and bid them keep a sharp
                    look?out. It would at least do no harm.
                ‘Thy father must have been the devil,’ said Zubr?ul?Zamân admiringly; ‘yet will I
                    reward thee, as thou hast asked, if all goes well.’
                ‘Does not all go well?’ laughed the woman. ‘The fire and the fall?’
                ‘And the girl?’
                
                ‘Oh, naught of the girl!—the lance?player hits not the peg first time. That part
                    is done, that tune played, for good or evil. The bridegroom, they say, comes
                    next week. 'Tis well; we want no evil eye to change the luck.’
            
        
    
