
     ----CITATION----
        Cholmondeley, Mary, 1859-1925. The Danvers jewels. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7387
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        


            
            
            
            
                
                    THE DANVERS JEWELS
            


            
            

                
                     BY MARY CHOLMONDELEY
                    

                    
                        DIANA TEMPEST. 6s. , CHEAP EDITION. 25. 
                    SIR CHARLES DANVERS. 6s.
                    The DANVERS JEWELS.2s.
                    RED POTTAGE.6s.
                    A DEVOTEE.3s. 6d.
                
            


            

            
                
                    THE DANVERS JEWELS
                
                
                
                
                
                BY MARY CHOLMONDELEY
                     AUTHOR OF 'DIANA TEMPEST,' 'SIR CHARLES DANVERS,' ETC.
                
                
                
                
                LONDON
                    
                    MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED
                    
                    NEW YORK:THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 
                    1902
            

            


            
                Appeared originally in 'THE TEMPLE BAR MAGAZINE,' 1887.
                        First Edition (I vol., post 8vo.), 1887. Reprinted September, 1887. Second Edition (I vol.,
                        crown 8vo.), 1897. Transferred to Macmillan and Co., August, 1898. Reprinted November,
                        1902.
                
            

            
            
                TO MY SISTER
                'DI'
                I AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATE THE STORY
                WHICH SHE HELPED ME
                TO WRITE.
            

            
            

        
        
            
                PART I

                
                


                
                    CHAPTER I
                    THE DANVERS JEWELS

                    CHAPTER I
                    I was on the point of leaving India and returning to England when he sent for me. At least, to be
                        accurate—and I am always accurate—I was not quite on the point, but nearly, for I was going to
                        start by the mail on the following day. I had been up to Government House to take my leave a few
                        days before, but Sir John had been too ill to see me, or at least he had said he was. And now he
                        was much worse—dying, it seemed, from all accounts; and he had sent down a native servant in the
                        noonday heat with a note, written in his shaky old hand, begging  me to come up as soon as it became cooler. He said he had a commission which he was anxious I
                        should do for him in England.

                    Of course I went. It was not very convenient, because I had to borrow one of our fellows' traps,
                        as I had sold my own, and none of them had the confidence in my driving which I had myself. I
                        was also obliged to leave the packing of my collection of Malay krises and
                        Indian kookeries to my bearer.
                    I wondered as I drove along why Sir John had sent for me. Worse, was he ? Dying ? And without a
                        friend. Poor old man! He had done pretty well in this world, but I was afraid he would not be up
                        to much once he was out of it; and now it seemed he was going. I felt sorry for him. I felt more
                        sorry when I saw him—when the tall, long— faced A.D.C. took me into his rogm and left us. Yes,
                        Sir John was certainly going. There was no mistake about it. It was written in every line of his
                        drawn fever-worn face, and in his wide fever-lit eyes, and in
                        the clutch of his long yellow hands upon his tussore silk dressing-gown. He'looked a very sick,
                        bad old man as he lay there on his low couch, placed so as to court the air from without, cooled
                        by its passage through damped grass screens, and to receive the full strength of the punkah,
                        pulled by an invisible hand outside.
                    'You go to England tomorrow ?' he asked sharply.
                     It was written even in the change of his voice, which was harsh, as of old, but with all the
                        strength gone out of it.
                    'By tomorrow's mail,' I said. I should have liked to say something
                        more—something sympathetic about his being ill and not likely to get better ; but he had always
                        treated me discourteously when he was well, and I could not open out all at once now that he was
                        ill.
                    'Look here, Middleton,' he went on; ' I am
                            dying, and I know it. I don't suppose you imagined I had sent for you to bid you a last farewell before departing to my long home. I am not in such
                            a hurry to depart as all that, I can tell you ; but there is something I want done—that I
                            want you to do for me. I meant to have done it myself, but I am down now, and I must trust
                            somebody. I know better than to trust a clever man. An honest fool—but I am digressing from
                            the case in point. I have never trusted anybody all my life, so you may feel honoured. I
                            have a small parcel which I want you to take to England for me. Here it is.'
                    His long lean hands went searching in his dressing-gown, and presently produced an old brown bag
                        held together at the neck by a string. 'See here!' he said; and he
                        pushed the glasses and papers aside from the table near him and undid the string.
                    Then he craned forward to look about him, laying a spasmodic clutch on the bag. ' I'm watched! I know I'm watched !' he said in a whisper, his pale eyes
                        turning slowly in their sockets. ' I shall 
                            be killed for them if I keep them much longer, and I won't be hurried into my grave. I'll
                            take my own time.'
                    'There is no one here,' I said, 'and no one in
                            sight except Cathcart smoking in the veranda, and I can only see his legs, so he can't see
                            us.'


                     He seemed to recover himself, and laughed. I had never liked his laugh, especially when, as had
                        often happened, it had been directed against myself; but I liked it still less now.
                    'See here!' he repeated, chuckling; and he turned the bag inside out
                        upon the table.
                    Such jewels I had never seen. They fell like cut flame upon the marble table—,green and red and
                        burning white. A large diamond rolled and fell upon the floor. I picked it up and put it back
                        among the confused blaze of precious stones, too much astonished for a moment to speak.
                    ' Beautiful! aren't they?' the old man chuckled, passing his wasted
                        hands over hm. 'You won't match that necklace in any jeweller's in England. I tore it off an old she-devil of a
                            Rhanee's neck after the Mutiny, and got a bite in the arm for my trouble. But she'll tell no
                            tales. He! he! he I I don't mind saying now how I got them. I am a humble Christian, now I
                            am so near heaven—eh, Middleton ? He! he! You don't like to contradict me. Look at those
                            emeralds. The hasp is broken, but it makes a pretty bracelet. I don't think I'll tell you
                            how the hasp got broken—little accident as the lady who wore it gave it to me. Rather brown,
                            isn't it, on one side; but it will come off. No, you need not be afraid of touching it, it
                            isn't wet. He! he! And this crescent. Look at those diamonds. A duchess would be proud of
                            them. I had them from a private soldier. I gave him two rupees for them. Dear me! how the
                            sight of them brings back old times! But I won't leave them out any longer. We must put them
                            away-put them away.' And the glittering mass was gathered up and shovelled  back into the old brown bag. He looked into it once with hungry eyes,
                        and then he pulled the string and pushed it over to me. 'Take it,'
                        he said. ' Put it away now. Put it away,' he repeated, as I
                        hesitated.
                    I put the bag into my pocket. He gave a long sigh as he watched it disappear.
                     'Now what you have got to do with that bag,' he said, a moment
                        afterwards, ' is to take it to Ralph Danvers, the second son of Sir George
                            Danvers of Stoke Moreton in D—shire. Sir George has got two sons. I have never seen him or
                            his sons, but I don't mean the eldest to have them. He is a spendthrift. They are all for
                            Ralph, who is a steady fellow, and going to marry a nice girl—at least, I suppose she is a
                            nice girl. Girls who are going to be married always are nice. Those jewels
                            will sweeten matrimony for Mr. Ralph, and if she is like other women it will need
                            sweetening. There, now you have got them, and that is what you have got to do with them.
                            There is the address,  written on this card. With my
                            compliments, you perceive. He! he! I don't suppose they will remember who I am.'

                    'Have you no relations?' I asked; for I am always strongly of opinion
                        that property should be bequeathed to relatives, especially near relatives, rather than to
                        entire strangers.
                    'None,' he replied, 'not even poor relations. I
                            have no deserving nephew or Scotch cousin. If I had, they would be here at this moment,
                            smoothing the pillow of the departing saint, and wondering how much they would get. You may
                            make your mind easy on that score.'
                    'Then who is this Ralph whom you have never seen, and to whom you are
                            leaving so much ?' I asked, with my usual desire for information.
                    He glared at me for a moment, and then he turned his face away.
                    'D—n it What does it matter, now I'm dying?' he said. And then he
                        added, hoarsely, ' I knew his mother.'
                    
                    I could not speak, but involuntarily I put out my hand and took his leaden one and held it. He
                        scowled at me, and then the words came out, as if in spite of himself.
                    'She—if she had married me, who knows what might— But she married Danvers.
                            She called her second son Ralph. My first name is Ralph.' Then, with a sudden change
                        of tone, pulling away his hand, 'There! now you know all about it!
                            Edifying, isn't it? These death-bed scenes always have an element of interest, haven't they?
                            Good- evening '—ringing the bell at his elbow—' I can't say I hope we shall meet again: it
                            would be impolite. No, don't let me keep you. Good-bye again.'
                    'Good-bye, Sir John,' I said, taking his impatient hand and shaking
                        it gently. ' God bless you.'
                    'Thankee,' grinned the old man, with a sardonic chuckle; 'if anything could do me good that will, I'm sure. Good-bye.'


                    
                    As I breakfasted next morning previously to my departure, I could not help reflecting on the
                        different position in which I was now returning to England, as a Colonel on long leave, to that
                        in which I had left it many—I do not care to think how many—years ago, the youngest ensign in
                        the regiment.
                    It was curious to remember that in my youth I had always been considered the fool of the family;
                        most unjustly so considered, when I look back at my quick promotion, owing to casualties, and at
                        my long and prosperous career in India, which I cannot but regard as the result of high
                        principles and abilities, to say the least of it,. of not the meanest order. On the point of
                        returning to England, the trust Sir John had with his usual shrewdness reposed in me was an
                        additional proof, if proof were needed, of the confidence I had inspired in him—a confidence
                        which seemed to have ripened suddenly at the end of his life, after many years of hardly
                        concealed mockery and derision. Just as I was finishing my
                        reflections and my breakfast, Dickson, one of the last joined subalterns, came in.
                    'This is very awful,' he said, so gravely that I turned to look at
                        him. '
                    What is awful ?'
                    Don't you know ?' he replied. ' Haven't you
                            heard about—Sir John—last night ?'
                    ' Dead ?' I asked.
                    He nodded, and then he said: 'Murdered in the night. Cathcart heard a noise,
                            and went in, and stumbled over him on the floor. As he came in he saw the lamp knocked over,
                            and a figure rush out through the veranda. The moon was bright, and he saw a man run across
                            a clear space in the moonlight—a tall, slightly-built man in native dress, but not a native,
                            Cathcart said; that he would take his oath on, by his build. He roused the house, but the
                            man got clean off, of course.'
                    'And Sir John ?'
                    'Sir John was quite dead when Cathcart got
                            back to him. He found him lying on his face. His arms were spread out, and his dressing-gown
                            was torn as if he had struggled hard. His pockets had been turned inside out, his
                            writing-table drawers forced open; the whole room had been ransacked. Yet the old man's gold
                            watch had not been touched, and some money in one of the drawers had not been taken. What on
                            earth is the meaning of it all ?' said young Dickson below his breath. 'What was the thief after ?'
                    In a moment the truth flashed across my brain. I put two and two together as quickly as most men,
                        I fancy. The jewels! Someone had got wind of the jewels, which, at that
                        moment, were reposing on my own person in their old brown bag. Sir John had been only just in
                        time.
                    'What was he looking for?' continued Dickson, walking up and down.
                            'The old man must have had some paper or other about him that he wanted
                            to get hold of. But what ? Cathcart says that nothing what- ever has been taken, as far as he can see at present.'
                     I was perfectly silent. It is not every man who would have been so in my place, but I was. I
                        know when to hold my tongue, thank Heaven!
                    Presently the others came in, all full of the same subject; and then suddenly I remembered that
                        it was getting late, and there was a bustle and a leave-taking, and I had to post off before I
                        could hear more. Not, however, that there was much more to hear, for everything seemed to be in
                        the greatest confusion, and every species of conjecture was afloat as to the real criminal, and
                        the motive for the crime. I had not much time to think of anything during the first day on
                        board; yet, busy as I was in arranging and re-arranging my things, poor old Sir John never
                        seemed quite absent from my mind. His image, as I had last seen him, constantly rose before me,
                        and the hoarse whisper was for ever sounding in my ears, 'I'm watched! I know I'm watched!' I could not get him out of my head. I was unable to sleep the
                        first night I was on board, and as the long hours wore on I always seemed to see the pale,
                        searching eyes of the dead man; and above the manifold noises of the steamer and the perpetual
                        lapping of the calm water against my ear came the whisper, 'I'm watched-! I know I'm
                        watched!'


                

                
                    CHAPTER II
                    
                    I WAS all right next day. I suppose I had had what women call 'nerves.' I never knew what nerves
                        meant before, because no two women I ever met seemed to have the same kind. If it is slamming a
                        door that upsets one woman's nerves, it may be coming in on tiptoe that will upset another's.
                        You never can tell. But I am sure it was nerves with me that first night; I know I have never
                        felt so queer since. Oh yes, I have, though—once! I was forgetting; but I have not come to that
                        yet.
                    We had a splendid passage home. Most of the passengers were in good spirits at the thought of
                        seeing England again, and even the children were not so troublesome as I have known them. I soon
                        made friends with some of the nicest people, for I generally
                        make friends easily. I do not know how I do it, but I always seem to know what people really are
                        at first sight. I always was rather a judge of character.
                    There was one man on board whom I took a great fancy to from the first. He was a young American,
                        travelling about, as Americans do, to see the world. I forget where he had come from—though I
                        believe he told me—or why he was going to London; but a nicer young fellow I never met. He was
                        rather simple and unsophisticated, and with less knowledge of the world than any man I ever
                        knew; but he did not mind owning to it, and was as grateful as possible for any little hints
                        which, as an older man who had not gone through life with his eyes shut, I was of course able to
                        give him. He was of a shy disposition, I could see, and wanted drawing out; but he soon took to
                        me, and in a surprisingly short time we became friends. He was in the next cabin to mine, and
                        evidently  wished so much to have been with me that I tried to
                        get another man to exchange; but he was grumpy about it, and I had to give it up, much to young
                        Carr's disappointment. Indeed, he was quite silent and morose for a whole day about it, poor
                        fellow. He was a tall, handsome young man, slightly built, with the kind of sallow complexion
                        that women admire, and I wondered at his preferring my company to that of the womankind on
                        board, who were certainly very civil to him.
                    One evening when I was rallying him on the subject, as we were leaning over the side (for, though
                        it was December, it was hot enough in the Red Sea to lounge on deck), he told me that he was
                        engaged to be married to a beautiful young American girl. I forget her name, but I remember he
                        told it me— Dulcima Something—but it is of no consequence. I quite understood then. I always can
                        enter into the feelings of others so entirely. I know when I was engaged myself once, long ago,
                        I did not seem to care to talk to anyone but her. She did not
                        feel the same about it, which, perhaps, accounted for her marrying someone else, which was quite
                        a blow to me at the time. But still, I could fully enter into young Carr's feelings, especially
                        when he went on to expatiate on her perfections. Nothing, he averred, was too good for her. At
                        last he dropped his voice, and after looking about him in the dusk to make sure he was not
                        overheard, he said :
                    'I have picked up a few stones for her on my travels—a few sapphires of
                            considerable value. I don't care to have it generally known that I have jewels about me, but
                            I don't mind telling you.'
                    'My dear fellow,' I replied, laying my hand on his shoulder, and
                        sinking my voice to a whisper, 'not a soul on board this vessel suspects
                            it, but so have I.'
                    It was too dark for me to see his face, but I felt that he was much impressed by what I had told
                        him.
                    'Then you will know where I had better keep mine,' he said a moment later, with his impulsive
                        boyish confidence. 'How fortunate I told you about them! Some are of
                            considerable value, and-and I don't know where to put them that they will be absolutely
                            safe. I never carried jewels about with me before, and I am nervous about losing them, you understand'—and he nodded significantly at me. ' Now where would you advise me to keep them?'
                    'On you,' I said significantly.
                    'But where ?'
                    He was simpler than even I could have believed.
                    'My dear boy,' I said, hardly able to refrain from laughing, do as I
                        do: put them in a bag with a string to it. Put the string round your neck,
                            and wear that bag under your clothes night and day.'
                    'At night as well?' he asked anxiously.
                    ' Of course. You are just as likely to lose them, as you
                            call it, in the night as in the day. ' 
                    
                    ' I'm very much obliged to you,' he replied. 'I will
                            take your advice this very night. I say,' he added suddenly, 'you
                            would not care to see them, would you ? I would not have anyone else catch sight of them for
                            a good deal, but I would show them you in a moment. Everyone else is on deck just now, if
                            you would like to come down into my cabin.'
                    I hardly know one stone from another, and never could tell a diamond from paste; but he seemed so
                        anxious to show me what he had that I did not like to refuse.
                    'By all means,' I said; and we went below.
                    It was very dark in Carr's cabin, and after he had let me in, he locked the door carefully before
                        he struck a light. He looked quite pale in the light of the lamp after the red dusk of the warm
                        evening on deck.
                    'I don't want to have other fellows coming in,' he said in a whisper,
                        nodding at the door:
                    
                    He stood looking at me for a moment as if irresolute, and then he suddenly seemed to arrive at
                        some decision, for he pulled a small parcel out of his pocket and began to open it. They really
                        were not much to look at, though I would not have told him so for worlds. There were a few
                        sapphires—one of a considerable size, but uncut—and some handsome turquoises, but not of perfect
                        colour. He turned them over with evident admiration.
                    'They will look lovely, set in gold, as a bracelet on her arm,' he said softly. He was very much in love, poor fellow. And then he
                        added humbly: 'But I dare say they are nothing to yours.'
                    I chuckled to myself at the thought of his astonishment when he should actually behold them; but
                        I only said: 'Would you like to see them, and judge for yourself
                        ?'
                    'Oh, if it is not giving you too much trouble!' he exclaimed gratefully,
                        with shining eyes. 'It's very kind of you. I
                            did not like to ask. Have you got them with you ?
                    I nodded, and proceeded to unbutton my coat.
                    At that moment a voice was heard shouting down the companion-ladder : 'Carr ! I say, Carr, you
                        are wanted !' and in another moment someone was hammering on the door.
                    Carr sprang to his feet looking positively savage. 'Carr!' shouted the voice again. 'Come out, I
                        say; you are wanted!'
                    'Button up your coat,' he whispered, scowling suddenly; and, with an
                        oath, he opened the door.
                    Poor Carr! He was quite put out, I could see, though he recovered himself in a moment, and went
                        off laughing with the man who had been sent for him to take his part in a rehearsal which had
                        been suddenly resolved on; for theatricals had been brewing for some time, and he had promised
                        to act in them. I had not been asked to join, so I saw no more
                        of him that night. The following morning as I was taking an early turn on deck he joined me, and
                        said with a smile, as he linked his arm in mine:
                    ' I was put out last night, wasn't I ?'
                    'But you got over it in a moment,' I replied. 'I
                            quite admired you; and, after all, you know—some other time.'
                    'No,' he said, smiling still, ' not some other time. I
                            don't think I will see them—thanks all the same. They might put me out of conceit with what
                            I have picked up for my little girl, which are the best I can afford.'
                    He seemed to have lost all interest in the subject, for he began to talk of England and of
                        London, about which he appeared to have that kind of vague half-and-half knowledge which so
                        often proves misleading to young men newly launched into town life. When he found out, as he
                        soon did, that I was to a certain extent familiar with the Metropolis, he began to question me
                        minutely, and ended by making me promise to dine with him at 
                        the Criterion, of which he had actually never heard, and go with him afterwards to the best of
                        the theatres the day after we arrived in London.
                    He wanted me to go with him the very evening we arrived, but on that point I was firm. My sister
                        Jane, who was living with a hen canary (called Bob, after me, before its sex was known) in a
                        small house in Kensington, would naturally be hurt if I did not spend my first evening in
                        England with her, after an absence of so many years.
                    Carr was much interested to hear that I had a sister, and asked innumerable questions about her.
                        Was she young and lovely, or was she getting on? Did she live all by herself, and was I going to
                        stay with her for long? Was not Kensington—was that the name of the street ?—rather out of the
                        world ? etc.
                    I was pleased with the interest he took in any particulars about myself and my relations. People
                        so seldom care to hear about the  concerns of others. Indeed, I
                        have noticed, as I advance in life, such a general want of interest on the part of my
                        acquaintance in the minutiae of my personal affairs, that of late I have almost ceased to speak
                        of them at any length. Carr, however, who was of what I should call a truly domestic turn of
                        character, showed such genuine pleasure in hearing about myself and my relations, that I asked
                        him to call in London in order to make Jane's acquaintance, and accordingly gave him her
                        address, which he took down at once in his note-book with evident satisfaction.
                    Our passage was long, but it proved most uneventful; and except for an occasional dance, and the
                        theatricals before mentioned, it would have been dull in the extreme. The theatricals certainly
                        were a great success, mainly owing to the splendid acting of young Carr, who became afterwards a
                        more special object of favour even than he was before. It was bitterly cold when we landed early
                        in January at Southampton, and my native land  seemed to have
                        retired from view behind a thick veil of fog. We had a wretched journey up to London, packed as
                        tight as sardines in a tin, much to the disgust of Carr, who accompanied me to town, and who,
                        with his usual thoughtfulness, had in vain endeavoured to keep the carriage to ourselves, by
                        liberal tips to guards and porters. When we at last arrived in London, he insisted on getting me
                        a cab and seeing my luggage on to it, before he looked after his own at all. It was only when I
                        had given the cabman my sister's address that he finally took his leave and disappeared among
                        the throng of people who were jostling each other near the luggage-vans.
                    Curiously enough when I arrived at my destination an odd thing happened. I got out at the green
                        door of 23, Suburban Residences, and when the maid opened it walked straight past her into the
                        little drawing-room.
                    'Well, Jane !' I cried.
                    
                    A pale, middle-aged woman rose as I came in, and I stood aghast. It was not my sister. It was
                        soon explained. She was a little pettish about it, poor woman. It seemed my sister had quite
                        recently changed her house, and the present occupant had been put to some slight inconvenience
                        before by people calling and leaving parcels after her departure. She gave me Jane's new
                        address, which was only in the next street, and I apologized and made my bow at once. My going
                        to the wrong house was such a slight occurrence that I almost forgot it at the time, until I was
                        reminded of it by a very sad event which happened afterwards.
                    Jane was delighted to see me. It seemed she had written to inform me of her change of address,
                        but the letter did not reach me before I started for England with the Danvers Jewels, about
                        which I have been asked to write this account. Considering this is an account of the jewels, it
                        is wonderful how seldom I have had occasion to mention them so
                        far; but you may rest assured that all this time they were safe in their bag under my waistcoat;
                        and knowing I had them there all right, I did not trouble my head much about them. I never was a
                        person to worry about things.
                    Still, I had no wish to be inconvenienced by a hard packet of little knobs against my chest any
                        longer than was necessary, and I wrote the same evening to Sir George Danvers, stating the bare
                        facts of the case, and asking what steps he or his second son wished me to take to put the
                        legacy in the possession of its owner. I had no notion of trusting a packet of such immense
                        value to the newly-organized Parcels Post. With jewels I consider you cannot be too cautious;
                        indeed, I told Jane so at the time, and she quite agreed with me.
                

                
                    CHAPTER III
                  


                        
                        I DID not much like the arrangement of Jane's new house when I came to stay in it. The way
                            the two bedrooms, hers and mine, were shut off from the rest of the house by a door, barred
                            and locked at -night for fear of burglars, was, I thought, unpleasant, especially as, once
                            in my room for the night, there was no possibility of getting out of it, the key of the door
                            of the passage not being even allowed to remain in the lock, but retiring with Jane, the
                            canary cage, and other valuables, into her own apartment. I remonstrated, but I soon found
                            that Jane had not remained unmarried for nothing. She was decided on the point. The outer
                            door would be locked as usual, and the key would be
                            deposited under the pin-cushion in her room as usual; and it was so.
                        The next morning, as Jane and I went out for a stroll before luncheon, we had to pass the
                            house to which I had driven by mistake the day before. To our astonishment, there was a
                            crowd before the door, and a policeman with his back to it was guarding the entrance. The
                            blinds were all drawn down. The image of the pale, lonely woman sitting by her little fire
                            whom I had disturbed the day before came suddenly back to me with a strange qualm.
                        'What is it ?' I hurriedly asked a baker's boy, who was standing
                            at an area railing, rubbing his chin against the loaf he was waiting to deliver. The boy
                            grinned.
                        'It's murder!' he said, with relish. 'Burgilars in
                                the night. I've supplied her reg'lar these two months. One quartern best white, one
                                half-quartern brown, every morning, French rolls occasional ; but it's all up
                            now.'
                        
                         And he went off whistling a tune which all bakers' boys whistled about that time, called '
                            My Grandfather's Timepiece,' or something similar.
                        A second policeman came up the street at this moment, and from him I learned the little there
                            was to know. The poor lady had not been murdered, it seemed, but, being subject to heart
                            complaint, had died in the night of an acute attack, evidently brought on by fright. The
                            maid, the only other person in the house, sleeping as maids-of all-work only can, had heard
                            nothing, and awoke in the morning to find her mistress dead in her bed, with the window and
                            door open. Strangely enough, the policeman added, although nothing in the house had been
                            touched, the lock of an unused bedroom had been forced, and the room evidently searched.
                        Poor Jane was quite overcome. She seemed convinced that it was only by a special intervention
                            of Providence that she had changed her house, and that her
                            successor had been sacrificed instead of herself.
                        'It might have been me!' she said over and over again that
                            afternoon.
                        Wishing to give a turn to her thoughts, I began to talk about Sir John's legacy, in which she
                            had evinced the greatest interest the night before, and, greatly to her delight, showed her
                            the jewels. I had not looked at them since Sir John had given them to me, and I was myself
                            astonished at their magnificence as I spread them out on the table under the gas-lamp. Jane
                            exhausted herself in admiration; but as I was putting them away again, saying it was time
                            for me to be dressing and going to meet Carr, who was to join me at the Criterion, she
                            begged me on no account to take them with me, affirming that it would be much safer to leave
                            them at home. I was firm, but she was firmer; and in the end I allowed her to lock them up
                            in the tea-caddy, where her small stock of ready-money reposed.
                        
                        I met Carr as we had arranged, and we had a very pleasant evening. Poor Carr, who had seen
                            the papers, had hardly expected that I should turn up, knowing the catastrophe of the
                            previous night had taken place at the house I was going to, and was much relieved to hear
                            that my sister had moved, and had thus been spared all the horror of the event.
                        The dinner was good, the play better. I should have come home feeling that I had enjoyed
                            myself thoroughly, if it had not been for a little adventure with our cab-driver that very
                            nearly proved serious. We got a hansom directly we came out of the theatre, but instead of
                            taking us to the direction we gave him, after we had driven for some distance I began to
                            make out that the cabman was going wrong, and Carr shouted to him to stop; but thereupon he
                            lashed up his horse, and away we went like the winds, up one street, and down another, till
                            I had ~kst all idea where we were. Carr, who was young and
                            active, did all he could; but the cabman, who, I am afraid, must have been intoxicated, took
                            not the slightest notice, and continued driving madly, Heaven knows where.
                        At last, after getting into a very dingy neighbourhood, we turned up a crooked dark street
                            unlit by any lamp—a street so narrow that I thought every moment the cab would be
                            overturned. In another moment I saw two men rush out of a doorway. One seized the horse,
                            which was much blown by this time, and brought it violently to a standstill, while the other
                            flew at the cab, and, catching Carr by the collar, proceeded to drag him out by main force.
                            I suppose Carr did his best, but, being only an American, he certainly made a very poor
                            fight of it; and while I was laying into the man who had got hold of him, I was suddenly
                            caught by the legs myself from the other side of the cab. I turned on my assailant, saw a
                            heavy stick levelled at me, caught at it, missed it, beheld
                            a series of fireworks, and remembered nothing more.
                    
                   
                        The first thing I heard on beginning to come to myself was a series of subdued but evidently
                            heartfelt oaths ; and I became sensible of an airy feeling, unpleasant in the extreme,
                            proceeding from an open condition of coat and waistcoat quite unsuited to the time of year.
                            A low chorus of muffled whispering was going on round me. As I groaned involuntarily it
                            stopped.
                        ' He's coming to,' I heard Carr say. 'Go and fetch
                                some brandy.'
                        And I felt myself turned right side upper-most, and my hands were rubbed, while Carr, in a
                            voice of the greatest anxiety, asked me how I felt. I was soon able to sit up, and to become
                            aware that I had a splitting headache, and was staring at a tallow candle stuck in a bottle.
                            Having got so far, I got a little further, and on looking round found myself reclining on a
                            sack in a corner of a  disreputable-looking room, dingy
                            with dirt, and faithful to the memory of bad tobacco. Then I suddenly remembered what had
                            occurred. Carr saw that I did so, and instantly poured forth an account of how we had been
                            rescued from a condition of great peril by the man to whom the house we were in belonged, to
                            whom he hardly knew how to express his gratitude, and who was now gone for some brandy for
                            me. He told me a great deal about it, but I was so dizzy that I forget most of what he said,
                            and it was not until our deliverer returned with the brandy that I became thoroughly aware
                            of what was going forward. I could not help thinking, as I thanked the honest fellow who had
                            come to our assistance, how easily one may be deceived by appearances, for a more
                            forbidding-looking face under its fur cap I never saw. That of his son, who presently
                            returned with a four-wheeler which Carr had sent for, was not more prepossessing. In fact,
                            they were two as villainous-looking men as I had ever seen.
                            After recompensing both with' all our spare cash, we got ourselves hoisted stiffly into the
                            cab, and Carr good-naturedly insisted on seeing me home, though he owned to feeling, as he
                            put it, 'rather knocked up by his knocking down.' We were both far too exhausted to speak
                            much, until Carr gave a start and a gasp, and said, ' By Jove!'
                        'What ?' I inquired.
                        'They are gone,' he said tremulously—'my
                                sapphires! They are gone—stolen! I had them in a bag round my neck, as you told me. They
                                must have been taken from me when I was knocked down. I say,' he added quickly,
                                'how about yours? Have you got them all right?'
                         Involuntarily I raised" my hand to my throat. A horrid qualm passed over me.
                        ' Thank Heaven !' I replied, with a sigh of relief, 'they are safe at home with Jane. What a mercy! I might have lost
                                them.'
                        'Might!' said Carr. 'You would
                                have  lost them to a dead certainty; and mine are gone
                            !' And he stamped and clenched his fist, and looked positively furious.
                         Poor Carr! I felt for him. He took the loss of his stones so to heart, and I am sure it was
                            only natural. I parted from him at my own door, and was glad on going in to find Jane had
                            stayed up for me. I soon figured in her eyes as the hero of a thrilling adventure, while her
                            clever hands applied sticking-plaster ad libitum. We were both so full of
                            the event of the evening, and the letter which I was to write to the Times. about it the next day, that it never entered the head of either of us on
                            retiring to bed to remove Sir John's jewels from the tea-caddy into which they had been
                            temporarily popped in the afternoon.
                    
                

                
                    CHAPTER IV
                    
                    I REALLY think adventures, like misfortunes, never come singly. Would you believe it? Our house
                        was broken into that very night. Nothing serious came of it, wonderful to relate, owing to
                        Jane's extraordinary presence of mind. She had been unable to sleep after my thrilling account
                        of the cab accident, and had consoled herself by reading Baxter's 'Saint's Rest' by her
                        night-light, for the canary became restless and liable to sudden bursts of song if a candle were
                        lighted. While so engaged she became aware of a subdued grating sound, which had continued for
                        some time before she began to speculate upon it. While she was speculating it ceased, and after
                        a short interval she distinctly heard a stealthy step upon the stair, and the handle of the passage door before mentioned was gently, very gently,
                        turned.
                    Jane has some of that quickness of perception which has been of such use to myself through life.
                        In a moment she had grasped the situation. Someone was in the house. In another moment she was
                        hanging out of her bedroom window, springing the policeman's rattle which she had had by her for
                        years with a view to an emergency of this kind, and at the same time—for she was a capable
                        woman—blowing a piercing strain on a cabman's whistle.
                    To make a long story short, her extraordinary presence of mind was the saving of us. With her own
                        eyes she saw two dark figures fly up our area steps and disappear round the corner, and when a
                        policeman appeared on the scene, half an hour later, he confirmed the fact that the house had
                        been broken into by showing us how an entrance had been effected through the kitchen window.
                    
                    There was, of course, no more sleep for us that night, and the remainder of it was passed by Jane
                        in examining the house from top to bottom every half-hour or so, owing to a rooted conviction on
                        her part that a burglar might still be lurking on the premises, concealed in the cellarette, or
                        the jam cupboard, or behind the drawing-room curtains.
                    By that morning's post I heard, as I expected I should do, from Sir George Danvers, but the
                        contents of the letter surprised me. He wrote most cordially, thanking me for my kindness in
                        undertaking such a heavy responsibility (I am sure I never felt it to be so) for an entire
                        stranger, and ended by sending me a pressing invitation to come down to Stoke Moreton that very
                        day, that he and his son, whose future wife was also staying with them, might have the pleasure
                        of making the acquaintance of one to whom they were so much indebted. He added that his eldest
                        son Charles was also going down from London by a certain train that day, and that he had told him to be on the look-out for me at the
                        station in case I was able to come at such short notice. I made up my mind to go, sent Sir
                        George a telegram to that effect, and proceeded to fish up the jewels out of the tea-caddy.
                    Jane, who had never ceased for one instant to comment on the event of the night, positively
                        shrieked when she saw me shaking the bag free from tea-leaves.
                    'Good gracious, the burglars!' she exclaimed. 'Why,
                            they might have taken them if they had only known.'
                    Of course they had not known, as I had been particularly secret about them; but
                        I wished all the same that I had not left them there all night, as Jane would insist, and
                        continued insisting, that they had been exposed to great danger. I argued the matter with her at
                        first; but women, I find, are impervious as a rule to masculine argument, and it is a mistake to
                        reason with them. It is, in fact, putting the sexes for the moment on an equality to which the weaker one is unaccustomed, and
                        consequently unsuited.
                    A few hours later I was rolling swiftly towards Stoke Moreton in a comfortable smoking-carriage,
                        only occupied by myself and Mr. Charles Danvers, a handsome young fellow with a pale face, and
                        that peculiar tired manner which (though, as I soon found, natural to him) is so often affected
                        by the young men of the day.
                    ' And so Ralph has come in for a legacy in diamonds,' he said
                        listlessly, when we had exchanged the usual civilities, and had become to a certain degree
                        acquainted. 'Dear me! how these good, steady young men prosper in the
                            world. When last I heard from him he had prevailed upon the one perfect woman in the
                            universe to consent to marry him, and his aunt (by the way, you will meet her there,
                            too-Lady Mary Cunningham) had murmured something vague, but gratifying, about testamentary
                            intentions. A week later Providence fills his brimming cup
                            with a legacy of jewels, estimated at—?' Charles opened his light sleepy eyes wide
                        and looked inquiringly at me. 'What are they estimated at?' he
                        asked, as I did not answer.
                    I really had no idea, but I shrugged my shoulders and looked wise.
                    'Estimated at a fabulous sum,' he said, closing his eyes again. '
                            Ah! had they been mine, with what joyful alacrity should I have
                            ascertained their exact money value. And mine they ought to have been, if the sacred law of
                            primogeniture (that special Providence which watches over the interests of eldest sons) had
                            been duly observed. Sir John had not the pleasure of my acquaintance, but I fear he must
                            have heard some reports—no doubt entirely without foundation— respecting my career, which
                            induced him to pass me over in this manner. What a moral! My father and my Aunt Mary are
                            always delicately pointing out the difference between Ralph and myself. I wish I were a good young man, like Ralph. It seems to pay best in the
                            long run; but I may as well inform you, Colonel Middleton, of the painful fact that I am the
                            black sheep of the family.'
                    'Oh, come, come!' I remarked uneasily.
                    'I should not have alluded to the subject if you were not likely to become
                            fully aware of it on your arrival, so I will be beforehand with my relations. I was brought
                            up in the way I should go,' he continued, with the utmost unconcern, as if commenting
                        on something that did not affect him in the least; ' but I did not walk in
                            it, partly owing to the uncongenial companionship that it involved, especially that of my
                            Aunt Mary, who took up so much room herself in the narrow path that she effectually kept me
                            out of it. From my earliest youth also I took extreme interest in the parable of the
                            Prodigal, and as soon as it became possible I exemplified it myself. I may even say that I
                            acted the part in a manner that did credit to a be- 
                            ginner; but the wind-up was ruined by the lamentable inability of others, who shall be
                            nameless, to throw themselves into the spirit of the piece. At various intervals,' he
                        continued, always as if speaking of someone else,' I have returned home,
                            but I regret to say that on each occasion my reception was not in any way what I could have
                            wished. The flavour of a fatted calf is absolutely unknown to me; and so far from meeting me
                            half-way, I have in extreme cases, when impelled homewards by urgent pecuniary
                            considerations, found myself obliged to walk up from the station.'
                    'Dear me! I hope it is not far?' I said.
                    'A mere matter of three miles or so uphill,' he resumed; 'nothing to a healthy Christian, though trying to the trembling legs of the
                            ungodly after a long course of husks. There, now I think you are quite au
                                fait as to our family history. I always pity a stranger who comes to a house  ignorant of little domestic details of this kind; he is
                            apt to make mistakes. Oh! pray don't mention it '—as I murmured some words of thanks—' no
                            trouble, I assure you ; trouble is a thing I don't take. By the way, are you aware we are
                            going straight into a nest of private theatricals at Stoke Moreton ? To-night is the last
                            rehearsal; perhaps I had better look over my part. I took it once years ago, but I don't
                            remember a word of it.' And after much rummaging in a magnificent silver-mounted
                        travelling bag, the Prodigal pulled out a paper-covered book and carelessly turned over the
                        leaves.
                    I did not interrupt his studies, save by a few passing comments on the weather, the state of the
                        country, and my own health, which I am sorry to say is not what it was; but as I only received
                        monosyllabic answers, we had no more conversation worth mentioning till we reached Stoke
                        Moreton.
                

                
                    CHAPTER V
                    
                     STOKE MORETON is a fine old Elizabethan house standing on rising ground. As we drove up the
                        straight wide approach between two rows of ancient, fantastically-clipped hollies, I was
                        impressed by the stately dignity of the place, which was not lessened as we drew up before a
                        great arched doorway, and were ushered into a long hall supported by massive pillars of carved
                        white stone. A roaring log fire in the immense fireplace threw a ruddy glow over the long array
                        of armour and gleaming weapons which lined the walls, and made the pale winter twilight outside
                        look bleak indeed. Charles, emerging slim and graceful out of an exquisite ulster, sauntered up
                        to the fire and asked where Sir George Danvers was. As he stood
                        inside the wide fireplace, leaning against one of the pillars which supported the towering white
                        stone chimneypiece covered with heraldic designs and coats of arms, he looked a worthier
                        representative of an ancient race than I fear he really was.
                    'So they have put the stage at that end, in front of the pillars,' he
                        remarked, nodding at a wooden erection. 'Quite right. I could not have
                            placed it better myself. What, Brown ? Sir George is in the drawing room, is he ? and tea,
                            as I perceive, is going in at this moment. Come, Middleton.'
                    And we followed the butler to the drawing room.
                    I am not a person who easily becomes confused, but I must own I did get confused with the large
                        party into the midst of which we were now ushered. I soon made out Sir George Danvers, a
                        delicate, but irascible-looking old gentleman, who received me with dignified cordiality, but
                        returned Charles's greeting with a certain formality and cold- 4 ness which I was pained to see, family affection being in my opinion the chief blessing of a
                        truly happy home. Charles I already knew, and with the second son, Ralph, a ruddy, smiling young
                        man with any amount of white teeth, I had no difficulty; but after that I became hopelessly
                        involved. I was introduced to an elderly lady whom I addressed for the rest of the evening as
                        Lady Danvers, until Charles casually mentioned that his mother was dead, and that until the
                        Deceased Wife's Sister Bill was passed he did not anticipate that his aunt Mary would take upon
                        herself the position of step-mother to her orphaned nephews. The severe elderly lady, then, who
                        beamed so sweetly upon Ralph, and regarded Charles with such manifest coldness, was their aunt,
                        Lady Mary Cunningham. She had known Sir John slightly in her youth, she said, as she graciously
                        made room for me on her sofa, and she expressed a very proper degree of regret at his sudden
                        death, considering that he had not been a personal friend in
                        any way.
                    'We all have our faults, Colonel Middleton,' said Lady Mary, with a
                        gentle sigh which dislodged a little colony of crumbs from the front of her dress. ' Sir John, like the rest of us, was not exempt, though I have no doubt the
                            softening influence of age would have done much, since I knew him, to smooth acerbities of
                            character which were unfortunately strongly marked in his early life.'
                    She had evidently not known Sir John in his later years.
                    As she continued to talk in this strain I endeavoured to make out which of the young ladies
                        present was the one to whom Ralph was engaged. I was undecided as to which it was of the two to
                        whom I had already been introduced. Girls always seem to me so very much alike, especially
                        pretty girls, and these were both of them pretty. I do not mean that they resembled each other
                        in the least, for one was dark and one was fair; but which was
                        Miss Aurelia Grant, Ralph's fiance, and which was Miss Evelyn Derrick, a cousin of the family, I
                        could not make out until later in the evening, when I distinctly saw Ralph kiss the fair one in
                        the picture-gallery, and I instantly came to the conclusion that she was the one to whom he was
                        engaged.
                    I asked Charles if I were not right, as we stood in front of the hall fire before the rest of the
                        party had assembled for dinner, and he told me that I had indeed hit the nail on the head in
                        this instance, though for his own part he never laid much stress himself on such an occurrence,
                        having found it misleading in the extreme to draw any conclusion from it. He further informed me
                        that Miss Derrick was the young lady with dark hair who had poured out tea, and whom he had
                        favoured with some of his conversation afterwards.
                    I admired Ralph's taste, as did Charles, who had never seen his future sister-in-law  before. Aurelia Grant was a charming little creature, with a curly
                        head and a dimple, and a pink and white complexion, and a suspicion of an Irish accent when she
                        became excited.
                    Charles said he admired her complexion most because it was so thoroughly well done, and the
                        colouring was so true to nature.
                    I did not quite catch his meaning, but it certainly was a beautiful complexion, and then she was
                        so bright and lively, and showed such pretty little teeth when she smiled. She was quite
                        delightful. I did not wonder at Ralph's being so much in love with her, and Charles agreed with
                        me.
                     'There is nothing like a good complexion,' he remarked gravely.
                            'One may be led away to like a pale girl with a mind for a time, but
                            for permanent domestic happiness give me a good complexion, and— a dimple,' he added, as if
                            it were an afterthought. ' I feel I could not bestow my best affections on a woman without a
                            dimple. Yes, indeed, Ralph has chosen well.'
                    
                    Now I do not agree with Charles there, as I have always considered that a woman should have a
                        certain amount of mind; just enough, in fact, to enable her to appreciate a superior one. I said
                        as much to Charles, but he only laughed, and said it was a subject on which opinion had always
                        varied.
                    'How did he meet her?' I inquired. 'On the Rigi
                            last summer,' said Charles. 'I am thinking of going there myself
                            next year. Lovely orphan sat by Lady Mary at table d'hôte. Read tracts
                            presented by Lady Mary. Made acquaintance. Lovely orphan's travelling companion or governess
                            discovered to be live sister of defunct travelling companion or governess of Lady Mary.
                            Result, warm friendship. Ralph, like a dutiful nephew, appears on the scene. Fortnight of
                            fine weather. Interesting expeditions. Romantic attachment, cemented by diamond and pearl
                            ring from Hunt and Roskell's. There is the whole story for you.'
                    
                    Evelyn Derrick joined us as he finished speaking. She was a tall, graceful girl, gentle and
                        dignified in manner, with a pale, refined face. She was pretty in a way, but not to compare to
                        Aurelia. Evelyn had an anxious look about her, too. Now I do not approve of a girl looking
                        grave; she ought to be bright and happy, with a smile for everyone. It is all very well for us
                        men, who have the work of the world to do, to look grave at times, but with women it is
                        different, and a woman always looks her best when she smiles—at least, I think so.
                     First, Aurelia came down, perfectly dazzling in white satin; then George, then Ralph, giving an
                        arm to Lady Mary, who suffered from rheumatism in her foot. Then came the gong, and afterwards a
                        rustle down of more people, young and old, friends of the family who had come to act, or to see
                        their sons ,and daughters; but as I never could get even their names right I shall not attempt
                        to give any account of them, especially as they are not of
                        importance in any way.
                    After dinner, on entering the drawingroom, I found that great excitement prevailed among the
                        ladies respecting Sir John's death. About his sad fate and costly legacy they all seemed well
                        informed. I had myself almost forgotten the reason of my taking any interest in my new
                        surroundings, not having even as yet given up the jewels to Sir George Danvers or Ralph; but at
                        the urgent request of all the ladies at once, Ralph begged me to bring them down to be seen and
                        admired then and there, before the rehearsal began.
                    'They will all be yours, you know,' Ralph said to Aurelia. ' You shall wear them on your wedding-day.'
                    'You are always talking about being married,' said Aurelia, with a
                        little pout. 'I wish you would try and think of something else to say. I
                            was quite looking forward to it myself until I came here, and now I am quite, quite tired of it
                            beforehand.'
                    Ralph laughed delightedly, and Sir George reminding me that everyone was dying of anxiety,
                        himself included, I ran upstairs to take the brown bag from around my neck, and in a few minutes
                        returned with it in my hand. They were all waiting for me—Lady Mary drawn up in an arm-chair
                        beside an ebony table, on which a small space near her had been cleared, Charles alone holding
                        rather aloof, sipping his coffee with his back to the fire.
                    'Don't jostle,' he said, as they all crowded round me. ' Evelyn, let me beg of you not to elbow forward in that unbecoming manner.
                            Observe how Aunt Mary restrains herself. Take time, Middleton! your coffee is getting cold.
                            Won't you drink it first?'
                    As he finished speaking I turned the contents of the bag upon the table. The jewels, in the
                        bright lamplight, seemed to blaze and burn into the ebony of the  table. There was a general gasp, a silence, and then a chorus of admiration. Charles came up
                        behind me and looked over my shoulder. '
                    Good gracious !' said Lady Mary solemnly. 'Ralph, you
                            are a rich man. Why, mine are nothing to them!' and she touched a diamond and emerald
                        necklace on her own neck. ' I never knew poor Sir John had so much good in
                            him.'
                    'Oh, Ralph, Ralph!' cried Aurelia, clasping her little hands with a
                        deep sigh. 'And will they really be my very own ?'
                     Ralph assured her that they would, and that she should act in them the following night if she
                        liked.
                    I think there was not a woman present who did not envy Aurelia as Ralph took up a flashing
                        diamond crescent and held it against her fair hair. I saw Evelyn turn away and begin to tear up
                        a small piece of paper in her hand. Women are very jealous of each other, especially the nice,
                        by which I mean the pretty, ones. I was sorry to see jealousy
                        so plainly marked in such a charming-looking girl as Evelyn; but women are all the same about
                        jewels. Aurelia blushed and sparkled and pouted when the clasp caught in her hair, and shook her
                        little head impatiently, and was altogether enchanting.
                    After the first burst of admiration had subsided, General Marston, an old Indian officer, who had
                        been somewhat in the rear, came up, and looked long at the glittering mass upon the table.
                    ' Are you aware,' he said at last to Ralph, pointing to the crescent,
                        ' that those diamonds are of enormous value? I have not seen such stones in
                            any shop in. London. I dare not say what that one crescent alone is worth, or that emerald
                            bracelet. Jewels of such value as this are a grave responsibility.' He stood, shaking
                        his head a little, and turning the crescent in his hand. '
                        Wonderful!' he said. 'Wonderful! Do not tear up that piece of
                            rice-paper, Miss Derrick,' he added, taking it from
                        her. 'The crescent was wrapped in it, and I will put it round it again. All
                            these stones want polishing, and many of them resetting. They ought not to be tumbled
                            together in this way in a bag, with nothing to prevent them scratching each other. See,
                            Ralph, here is a clasp broken, and here are some loose stones, and this star has no clasp at
                            all. You 'must take them up to some trustworthy jeweller, and have them thoroughly looked
                            over.'
                    'I suppose the second son was specially mentioned, Middleton ?' said
                        Charles, as I drew back to let the rest handle and admire.
                    'Of course,' said Lady Mary sharply, 'and a very
                            fortunate thing, too.'
                     'Very—for Ralph,' he replied. ' It is really
                            providential that I am what I am. Why, I might have ruined the dear boy's prospects if I had
                            paid my tailor's bill, and lived in the country among the buttercups and daisies. Ah! my
                            dear aunt, as I see you are about  to remark, how all
                            things here below work together for good!'
                    'I was not going to remark anything of the kind,' retorted Lady Mary,
                        drawing herself up; 'but,' she added spitefully, ' I
                            do not feel the less rejoiced at Ralph's good fortune and prosperity, when I see, as I so
                            often do, the ungodly flourishing like a green bay-tree.'
                    'Of course,' said Charles, shaking his head, 'if
                            that is your own experience, I bow before it. But for my own part, I must confess I have not
                            found it so. Flourish like a green bay-tree! No, Aunt Mary, it is a fallacy. They don't. I
                            am sure I only wish they did. But I see the rehearsal is beginning. May I give you an arm to
                            the hall?'
                    The offer was entirely disregarded, and it was with the help of mine that Lady Mary retired from
                        an unequal combat, which she never seemed able to resist provoking anew, and in which she was
                        invariably worsted, causing her, as I could see, to regard Charles with the concentrated bitterness of which a severely good woman alone
                        is capable.
                    I soon perceived that Charles was on the same amicable terms with his father; that they rarely
                        spoke, and that it was evidently only with a view to keeping up appearances that he was ever
                        invited to the paternal roof at all. Between the brothers, however, in spite of so much to
                        estrange them, a certain kindliness of feeling seemed to exist, which was hardly to have been
                        expected under the circumstances.
                    The rehearsal now began, and Sir George Danvers, who had remained behind to put by the jewels and
                        lock them up in his strong-box among his papers, came and sat down by me, again thanking me for
                        taking charge of them, though I assured him it had been very little trouble.
                    ' Not much trouble, perhaps, but a great responsibility,' he said
                        courteously.
                    ' A soldier, Sir George,' I replied, with a slight smile, 'becomes early inured to the gravest
                            responsibility. It is the air we breathe; it is taken as a matter of course.' 
                    He looked keenly at me, and was silent, as if considering something—perhaps what I had said.
                    I was delighted to find the play was one of those which I had seen acted during our passage home.
                        There is nothing I like so much as knowing a play beforehand, because then one can always
                        whisper to one's companion what is coming next. The stage, with all its adjustments, had been
                        carefully arranged, the foot-lights were lighted, the piece began. All went well till nearly the
                        end of the first act, when there was a cry behind the scenes of 'Mr. Denis!' Mr. Denis should
                        have rushed on, but Mr. Denis did not rush on. The play stopped. Mr. Denis was not in the
                        library, the improvised green-room; Mr. Denis did not appear when his name was called in
                        stentorian tones by Ralph, or in pathetic falsetto by Charles. In short, Mr. Denis was not
                        forthcoming. A  rush upstairs on the part of most of the young
                        men brought to light the awful fact that Mr. Denis had retired to his chamber, a prey to sudden
                        and acute indisposition.
                    'Dear me!' said Charles to Lady Mary, with a dismal shake of his
                        head, 'how precarious is life! Here to-day, and in bed to-morrow. Support
                            your Aunt Mary, my dear Evelyn; she wishes to retire to rest. Indeed, we may as well all go
                            to bed, for there will be no more acting to-night without poor Denis. I only trust he may be
                            spared to us till to-morrow, and that he may be well enough to die by my hand to-morrow
                            evening.'
                     We all dispersed for the night in some anxiety. The play could not proceed without Mr. Denis,
                        who took an important part; and Sir George ruefully informed me that all the neighbouring houses
                        had been filled for these theatricals, and that great numbers of people were expected. There was
                        to be dancing afterwards, but the principal feature of the 
                        entertainment was the play. We all retired to rest fervently hoping that the health of Mr. Denis
                        might be restored by the following morning.
                
                
                    CHAPTER VI
                    
                    BUT far from being better the following morning, Denis was much worse. Charles, who had sat up
                        most of the night with him, and who came down to breakfast more cool and indifferent than ever,
                        at once extinguished any hope that still remained that he would be able to take his part that
                        night.
                    Great was the consternation of the whole party. A vague feeling of resentment against Denis
                        prevailed among the womankind, who, having all preserved their own healths intact for the
                        occasion (and each by her own account was a chronic invalid), felt it was extremely
                        inconsiderate, not to say indelicate, of 'a great man like him' to spoil everything by being
                        laid up at the wrong moment.
                    But what was to be done ? Denis was ill, and without Denis the
                        play could not proceed. Must the whole thing be given up? There was a general chorus of
                        lamentation.
                    'I see no alternative,' said Charles, 'unless
                            some Curtius will leap into the gulf, and go through the piece, reading the part; and that
                            is always a failure at the best of times.'
                    At that moment I had an idea. It broke upon me like a flash of lightning. Valentine
                            Carr! I had seen him act the very part Denis was to have taken, in the theatricals on
                        the steamer. How wonderfully fortunate that it should have occurred to me.
                    I told Charles that I had a friend who had acted that part only the week before
                    'You!' cried Charles, losing all his customary
                        apathy. 'You don't say so! Great heavens, where is he? Out with him! Where
                            is he at this moment ? England, Ireland, Scotland, or Wales? is this treasure concealed
                        ?'
                    Oh, Colonel Middleton! Oh, how delightful!' cried a number of gentle voices; and I was instantly surrounded, and all manner of questions put to me.
                        Would he come? Was he tall ? And oh! had he a beard? He had not a beard, had he? because it
                        would not do for the part. Did he act well. When had he acted? Where had he acted ?
                    Sir George interrupted the torrent of interrogation.
                     'Do you think he would come ?' he asked.
                    'I am almost sure he would,' I said; ' he is a
                            great friend of mine.'
                    ' It would be an exceedingly good-natured and friendly act,' said Sir
                        George. ' Charles—no, I mean Ralph—bring a telegraph form; and if you will
                            write a telegram at once, Middleton, I will send it to the station directly. We shall have
                            an answer by twelve o'clock, and, until then, we will not give up all hope, though, of
                            course, we must not count on your friend being able to come at such short
                        notice.'
                    The telegram was written and despatched, Carr having given me an
                        address where letters would find him, though he said he did not put up there. I sincerely hoped
                        he would not be out of the way on this occasion, and I was not a little pleased when, a few
                        hours later, I received a telegram in reply, saying that he could come, and should arrive by the
                        afternoon train which had brought me the day before.
                    The spirits of the whole party revived. I (as is often the case) was in high favour with all.
                        Even poor Denis, who had been very much depressed, was sufficiently relieved by the news, so
                        Charles said, to smile over his beef-tea. Lady Mary, who appeared at luncheon time, treated me
                        with marked consideration. I had already laid them under an obligation, she said graciously, by
                        undertaking the care of the jewels, and now they were indebted to me a second time. Was Mr. Carr
                        one of Lord Barrantyne's sons, or was he one of the Crampshire Carrs? She had known Lady
                        Caroline Carr in her youth, but had not met her of late years.
                        She seemed surprised when I told her that Carr was an American, and he sank, I could see, at
                        once in her estimation; but she was kind enough to say that she was not a person who was
                        prejudiced in any way by a man's nationality, and that she believed that very respectable people
                        might be found among the Americans.
                    The day passed in the usual preparations for an entertainment. If I went into the hall I was sure
                        to run against gardeners carrying in quantities of hothouse plants, with which the front of the
                        stage was being hidden from the footlights to the floor; if I wandered into the library, I
                        interrupted Aurelia and Ralph rehearsing their parts alone, with their heads very close
                        together; if I hastily withdrew into the morning-room, it was only to find Charles upon his
                        knees, luring Evelyn to immediate flight, in soul-stirring accents, before an admiring audience
                        of not unenvious young- ladyhood. 
                    
                    'Now, Evelyn, I ask you as a favour,' said Charles, as I came in,
                        moving towards her on his knees, 'will you come a little closer when I am
                            down? I don't mind wearing out my knees the least in a good cause; but I owe it to myself,
                            as a wicked baron in hired tights, not to cross the stage in that position. Any impression I
                            make will be quite lost if I do; and unless you keep closer, I shall never be able to reach
                            your hand and clasp it to a heart at least two yards away. Now '— rising, and
                        crossing over to the other side— 'I shall begin again. "Ah! but my soul's
                            adored—" '
                    ' Is Middleton here ?' asked a voice in the doorway. It was Sir
                        George, who had put his head into the room, and I went to him.
                    ' I say, Middleton,' he began, twirling his stick, and looking rather
                        annoyed, 'it is excessively provoking. I never thought of it before, but I
                            find there is not a bed in the house. Every cranny has been filled. It never occurred to me
                            that we had not a room for your friend, now that he is kind
                            .enough to come. And it looks so rude, when it is so exceedingly good-natured of him to come
                            at all.'
                    'Oh, dear; anywhere will do !' I said.
                    ' There is not even room for Ralph in the house,' continued Sir
                        George. 'I have put him up at the lodge'—pointing to a small house at
                        the end of the drive, near the great entrance gates. ' There is another nice
                            little room leading-out of his,' he added, hesitating, 'but, really, I don't like to
                            suggest—'
                    'Oh, that will do perfectly!' I broke in. 'Carr
                            is not the sort of fellow to care a straw how he is put up. He will be quite content
                            anywhere.'
                    'Come and see it,' he said, leading the way out of doors. ' I would have turned out Charles in a moment, and given Carr his room; but
                            Denis is really rather ill, and Charles sees to him, as he is next door.'
                    I could not help saying how much I liked Charles.
                    
                    'Strangers always do,' he replied coldly, as we walked towards the
                        lodge. ' I constantly hear him spoken of as a most agreeable young
                            man.'
                    'And he is so handsome.'
                    ' Yes,' replied Sir George, in the same hard tone,' handsome and agreeable. I have no doubt he appears so to others; but I, who
                            have had to pay the debts and hush up the scandals of my handsome and agreeable son, find
                            Ralph, who has not a feature in his face, the best-looking of the two. I know Charles is
                            head over ears in debt at this moment, but '—with sudden acrimony—' he will not get another farthing from me. It is pouring water into a
                            sieve.'
                    'Ralph is marrying a sweetly pretty creature,' I said with warmth,
                        desirous of changing the subject.
                    'Yes, she is very pretty,' said Sir George without enthusiasm. 'But I wish she had belonged to one of our county families. It is nothing in
                            the way of connection. She has no relations to speak of-one
                            uncle living in Australia, and another, whom she goes to on Saturday, in Ireland. There
                            seems to be no money either. It is Lady Mary's doing. She took a fancy to her abroad; and,
                            to say the truth, I did not wish to object, for, at one time, there seemed to be an
                            attraction between himself and his cousin, Evelyn Derrick, which his aunt and I were both
                            glad to think had passed over. I do not approve of marriages between cousins.'
                    We had reached the lodge by this time, and I was shown a tidy little room leading out of the one
                        Ralph was occupying, in which I assured Sir George that Carr would be perfectly comfortable,
                        much to the courteous old gentleman's relief, though I could see that he was evidently annoyed
                        at not being able to put him up in the house.
                    In the afternoon, towards five o'clock, Carr arrived. I went into the hall to meet him, and to
                        bring him into the drawing-room myself. Just as we came in, and while I was introducing him to Sir George, Ralph and Aurelia, who were sitting
                        together as usual, started a lovers' squabble.
                    'Oh my!
                         ' said Ralph suddenly.
                    'It is all your fault. You jogged my elbow,' came Aurelia's quick
                        rejoinder.
                    'My dearest love, I did not,' returned Ralph on his
                        knees, pocket-handkerchief in hand. It appeared that, between them, they had managed to transfer
                        Aurelia's tea from her cup to the front of her dress.
                    ' You did; you know you did!' she said, evidently ready to cry with
                        vexation. ' I was just going to drink, and you had your arm round the back
                            of my —'
                    'Hush, Aurelia, I beg!' expostulated Charles. ' Aunt Mary and I are becoming embarrassed. It is not necessary to enter into particulars as
                            to the exact locality of Ralph's arm.'
                    'Round the back of my chair,' pouted Aurelia.
                    
                    'It is all right, Aunt Mary,' called Charles cheerfully to that lady.
                            'Only the back of her chair. We took alarm
                            unnecessarily. Just as it should be. I have done the same myself with—a different
                            chair.'
                    'He is always doing it,' continued Aurelia,
                        unmollified. ' I have told him about it before. He made me drop a piece of
                            bread-and-butter on the carpet only yesterday.'
                    'I ate it afterwards,' humbly suggested Ralph, still on his knees,
                            'and there were hairs in it. There were indeed, Aurelia.'
                    'And now it is my tea-gown,' continued Aurelia, giving way to the
                        prettiest little outburst of temper imaginable. 'I wish you would get up
                            and go away, Ralph, and not come back. You are only making it worse by rubbing it in that
                            silly way with your wet handkerchief.'
                    ' Here is another,' said Charles, snatching up Lady Mary's delicate
                        cambric one, which was lying on her work-table, while I was in the act of introducing Carr to
                        her; and before that lady's politeness to Carr would allow her
                        to turn from him to expostulate, Charles was on his knees beside Ralph, wiping the offending
                        stain.
                    '" 
                            
                                 "Out, damned spot!" 
                                
                                    Shakespeare,
                                    Macbeth
                                
                             or rather, series of spots. What, Aurelia? you don't wish it rubbed any more? Good; I
                            will turn my attention to the Aubusson carpet. Ha! triumph! Here, at least, I am successful.
                            Aunt Mary, you have no conception how useful your handkerchief is. The amount of tea, or
                            dirt, or both, which is leaving the carpet and taking refuge in your little square of
                            cambric, will surprise you when you see it. Ah !'—rising from his knees as I brought
                        up Carr, having, by this time, presented him to Sir George—'very happy to
                            see you, Mr. Carr. Most kind of you to come. Evelyn, are you pouring out some tea for Mr.
                            Carr? Nature requires support before a last rehearsal. May I introduce you to my cousin,
                            Miss Derrick ?'
                    After Carr had also been introduced to  Aurelia, who, however,
                        was still too much absorbed in her tea-gown to take much notice of him, he seemed glad to
                        retreat to a chair by Evelyn, who gave him his tea, and talked pleasantly to him. He was very
                        shy at first, but he soon got used to us, and many were the curious glances shot at him by the
                        rest of the party as tea went on. There was to be a last rehearsal immediately afterwards, so
                        that he might take part in it; and there was a general unacknowledged anxiety on the part of all
                        the actors as to how he would bear that crucial test. on which so much depended. I was becoming
                        anxious myself, being in a manner responsible for him.
                     'You're not nervous, are you?' I said, taking him aside when tea was
                        over. 'Only act half as well as you did on the steamer, and you will do
                            capitally.'
                     'Yes, I am nervous,' he replied, with a short, uneasy laugh. ' It is enough to make a fellow nervous to be set down among a lot of people whom he has never seen before—to act a principal part,
                            too. I had no idea it was going to be such a grand affair, or I would not have come. I only
                            diad it to please you.'
                    Of course, I knew that, and I tried to reassure him, reminding him that the audience would not be
                        critical, and how grateful everyone was to him for coming. 
                    'Tell me who some of the people are, will you?' he went on. 'Who is that tall man with the fair moustache ? He is looking at us
                        now.'
                    ' That is Charles, the eldest son,' I replied; 'and the shorter one, with
                            the pleasant face, near the window, is Ralph, his younger brother.'
                    'That is a very good-looking girl he is talking to,' he remarked. '
                            I did not catch her name.'
                    ' Hush!' I said. 'That is Miss Grant, to whom he
                            is engaged. They have just had a little tiff, and are making it up. He 
                            does talk to her a good deal; I have noticed it myself. Such a sweet
                            creature !'
                    'Is she going to act ?'
                    'Yes,' I replied. 'They are going to begin at
                            once. You need not dress; it is not a dress rehearsal.'
                    'I think I will go and get my boots off, though,' said Carr. ' Can you show me where I am ?'
                    'I am afraid you are not in the house at all,' I said. 'The fact is—did not Sir George tell you ?
                    And then I explained.
                    For a moment his face fell, but it cleared instantly, though not before I had noticed it.
                    'You don't mind!' I said, astonished. 'You quite
                            understand—'
                    'Of course, of course,' he interrupted. 'It is all
                            right. I have a cold, that is all; and I have to sing next week. I shall do very well. Pray
                            don't tell your friends I have a cold. I am sure Sir George is kind- ness itself, and it might make him uneasy to think I was not in
                            the house.'
                    The rehearsal now began, and in much trepidation I waited to see Carr come on. The moment he
                        appeared all anxiety vanished; the other actors were reassured, and acted their best. A few
                        passages had to be repeated, a few positions altered, but it was obvious that Carr could act,
                        and act well, though, curiously enough, he looked less gentlemanlike and well-bred when acting
                        with Charles than he had done when he was the best among a very mixed set on the steamer.
                    'You act beautifully, Mr. 'Carr,' said Aurelia when it was over.
                            'Doesn't he, Ralph ?'
                    'Doesn't he?' replied Ralph, hot, but good-humoured. 'I am sure, Carr, we are most grateful to you.'
                    'So am I,' said Charles. 'Your death agonies,
                            Carr, are a credit to human nature. No great vulgar writhings with legs all over 6  the stage, like Denis, but a chaste, refined wriggle, and
                            all was over. It is a pleasure to kill a man who dies in such a gentleman- like manner. If
                            only Evelyn will keep a little closer to me when I am on my wicked baronial knees, I shall
                            be quite happy. You hear, Evelyn ?'
                    'How you can joke at this moment,' said Evelyn, who looked pale and
                        nervous, ' I cannot think. I don't believe I shall be able to remember a
                            word when it comes to the point.'
                    'Stage-fever coming on already,' said Charles, in a different tone.
                            'Ah, it is your first appearance, is it not ? Go and rest now, and you
                            will be all right when the time comes. I have a vision of a great success, and a call before
                            the curtain, and bouquets, and other delights. Only go and rest now.'
                     And he went to light a candle for her. He seemed very thoughtful for Evelyn.
                    It was the signal for all of us to disperse—the ladies to their
                        rooms, the men to the only retreat left to them, the smoking-room. As Aurelia went upstairs, I
                        saw her beckon Ralph and whisper to him:
                    'Am I really to wear them ?'
                     'Wear what, my angel? The jewels ? Why, good gracious ! I had quite forgotten
                            them. Of course, I want you to wear them.'
                    'So do I, dreadfully,' she replied, with a killing glance over the
                        banisters. 'Only, if I am, you must bring them down in good time, and put
                            them on in the green-room. I hope you have got them somewhere safe.'
                    'Safe as a church,' replied Ralph, forgetting that in these days the
                        simile is not a good one, 'Father has them in his strong-box. I will ask him
                            to get them out -at least, all that can be worn—and I will give them a rub up before you
                            wear them.'
                    'Ah.,' said Charles sadly, as we walked upstairs, 'if only I had known Sir John!'
                

                
            

            
                
                PART II
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER I
                    

                    IT was nearly eight o'clock when I came down. The play was to begin at eight. The hall, which was
                        brilliantly lighted, was one moving mass of black coats, with here and there a red one, and
                        evening dresses many coloured, the people in them chatting, bowing, laughing, being ushered to
                        their places. Lady Mary and Sir George Danvers side by side received their guests at the foot of
                        the grand staircase, Lady Mary resplendent in diamond tiara and rivière, smiling as if she could
                        never frown; Sir George upright, courteous, a trifle stiff, as most English country gentlemen
                        feel it incumbent on themselves to be on such occasions.
                    Presently the continual roll of the carriages outside ceased, the lamps were toned down, the orchestra struck up, and Sir George and Lady Mary took
                        their seats, looking round with anxious satisfaction at the hall crowded with people. People
                        lined the walls; chairs were being lifted over the heads of the sitting for some who were still
                        standing; cushions were being arranged on the billiard-table at the back for a covey of white
                        waistcoats who arrived late; the staircase was already crowded with servants; the whole place
                        was crammed.
                    I wondered how they were getting on behind the scenes, and, slipping out of the hall, I traversed
                        the great gold and white drawing-room, prepared for dancing, and peeped into the morning-room,
                        which, with the adjoining library, had been given up to the actors. They were all assembled in
                        the morning-room, however, waiting for one of the elder ladies who had not come down. The
                        prompter was getting fidgety, and walking about. The two scene-shifters—pale, weary-looking men
                        who had come down with the scenery—were sitting in the wings, perfectly apathetic amid the general excitement. Charles and several other actors were
                        standing round a footman who was opening champagne bottles at a surprising rate. I saw Charles
                        take a glass to Evelyn, who was shivering with a sharp attack of stage-fever in an arm-chair,
                        looking over her part. She smiled gratefully, but as she did so her eyes wandered to the other
                        side of the room, where Ralph, on his knees before Aurelia, was fastening a diamond star in her
                        dress. Diamonds, rubies, and emeralds flashed in her hair and on her white neck and arms. Ralph
                        was fixing the last ornament on to her shoulder with wire off a champagne bottle, there being no
                        clasp to hold it in its place. I saw Evelyn turn away again, and Charles, who was watching her,
                        suddenly went off to the fire, and began to complain of the cold and of the thinness of his silk
                        stockings.
                    The elder lady—' the heavy mother,' as Charles irreverently called her—now arrived ; the
                        orchestra, which was giving a final  flourish, was begged in a
                        hoarse whisper to keep going a few minutes longer; eyes were applied to the hole in the curtain,
                        and then, everyone being assembled, it was felt by all that the awful moment had come at last. A
                        more miserable-looking set of people I never saw. I always imagined that the actors behind the
                        scenes were as gay off the stage as on it; but I found, to my astonishment, that they were all
                        suffering more or less from severe mental depression. Ralph and Aurelia were now sitting
                        ruefully together on an ottoman beside the painting-table, littered with its various rouges and
                        creams and stage appliances. Even Charles, who had established Evelyn on a chair in the wings at
                        the side she had to come on from, and was now drinking champagne with due regard to his
                        paint—even Charles owned to being nervous.
                    'I wish to goodness Mrs. Wright would begin!' he said. 'Ah, there she goes'-as she ascended the stage steps. 'There goes the bell. We are in for it now. She starts, and I come on next. Up goes the curtain. Where the devil has my
                            book got to ?' 
                    In another moment he was in the wings, intent on his part; then I saw him throw down his book and
                        go jauntily forward. A moment more, and there was a thunder of applause. All the actors looked
                        at each other, and smiled a feeble smile. 
                    'He will do,' said General Marston, the Indian officer, who, now in
                        the dress of an old-fashioned livery servant, proceeded to mount the steps. It dawned upon me
                        that I was missing the play, and I hurried back, to find Charles convulsing the audience with
                        the utmost coolness, and evidently enjoying himself exceedingly. Then Evelyn came on— But who
                        cares to read a description of a play ? It is sufficient to say that Aurelia looked charming,
                        and many were the whispered comments on her magnificent jewels; but on the stage Evelyn
                        surpassed her, as much as Aurelia surpassed Evelyn off it.
                    Ralph and Carr did well, but Charles was the favourite with
                        everyone, from the Duchess of Crushington in the front seat to the scullery-maid on the
                        staircase. He was so bold, so wicked, so insinuating, in his plumed cap and short cloak, so
                        elegantly refined when he wiped his sword upon his second's handkerchief. He took everyone's
                        heart by storm. Ralph, who represented all the virtues, with rather thick ankles and a false
                        moustache, was nowhere. When the curtain fell for the last time, amid great and continued
                        applause, the 'heavy mother,' Ralph, Aurelia, all were well received as they passed before it;
                        but Charles, who appeared last, was the hero of the evening.
                    'He is engaged to his cousin, Miss Derrick, isn't he ?' said a lady
                        near me in a loud whisper to a friend. '
                    Hush! no. Charles can't marry. Head over ears in debt. They say she is attached to one of her cousins, but I forget which. I am not sure it was
                            not the other one.'
                     'Then it is the second son who is going to
                            be married, is it ? I know I heard something about one of them being engaged.'
                     'Yes, the second son is engaged to that good-looking girl in diamonds, who
                            acted Florence Mordaunt. A lot of money, I believe, but not much in the way of family.
                            Grandfather sold mouse-traps in Birmingham, so people say.'
                    'She looks like it!' replied the other, who had daughters out, and
                        could not afford to let any praise of other girls pass. ' No breeding or
                            refinement; and she will be stout later, you will see.'
                     The play being over, a general movement now set in towards the drawing-room, where the. band was
                        already installed, and making its presence known by an inspiriting valse tune. In a few moments
                        twenty, thirty, forty couples were swaying to the music; Aurelia, in her acting costume, was
                        dancing away with Ralph in his red stockings, Carr with the 'heavy mother,' and Charles in
                        prosaic evening dress was flying past with  Evelyn, who, now
                        that she had effaced her beautiful stage complexion, looked pale and grave as ever.
                    I suppose it was a capital ball. Everyone seemed to enjoy it. I did not dance myself, but I liked
                        watching the others; and after a time Charles, who had been dancing indefatigably with two
                        schoolroom girls with pigtails, came and flung himself down on the other half of the ottoman on
                        which I was sitting.
                     'Three times with each!' he said, in a voice of extreme exhaustion.
                            'No favouritism. I have done for to-night now.'
                    'What! Are you not going to dance any more ?'
                    'No, not unless Evelyn will give me another turn later, which she probably
                            won't. There she goes with Lord Breakwater again. How I do dislike that young man! And look
                            at Carr, valsing with Aurelia! He seems to be leaping on her feet a good deal, and she looks
                            as if she were telling him so, does not she? There! they
                            have subsided into the bay window. I thought she would not stand it long. He does not dance
                            as well as he acts. Heigh-ho! Come in to supper with me, Middleton. The supper-room will be
                            emptier now, and I am dying of hunger. You must be the same, for you had no regular dinner
                            any more than we had. Come along. We will get a certain little table for two that I know of
                            in the bay window, where I took the fair pigtail just now, to the evident anxiety of the
                            parental chignon, who was at the large table. We will have a good feed in peace and
                            quietness.'
                     In a few minutes we were established in a quiet nook in the supper-room, which was now
                        half-empty, and were making short work of everything before us.
                    'How well Carr acted!' said Charles at last, leaning back, and
                        leisurely sipping his champagne. ' I can think of something besides food
                            now. Did not you think he acted well ?'
                    
                    'Yes,' I said; 'but you cut him out.'
                    'Did I ?' said Charles absently, beckoning to some lobster salad
                        which was passing. 'Have some? Do, Middleton. We can but die once. You
                            won't. Well, I will! Have you often seen Carr act before ?'
                     'Never,' I said. 'I never met him till he came
                            on board the Bosphorus at—'
                    'Indeed! Oh, I fancied you were quite old friends !'
                    'We made great friends on the steamer.'
                    'Did you see much of him in London ?' he asked, filling up his glass
                        and mine.
                     'Not much, naturally,' I said, laughing. 'I was
                            only in London two nights.'
                    'Ah! I forgot. Very good of you, I am sure, to come down here so soon after
                            your arrival. You would hardly have seen him at all since you landed, then ?'
                    'Carr ? Yes,' I replied, thinking Charles's talk was becoming very vague;
                            though when I rallied him about it next day he assured me it had been very much to the point
                                 indeed. 'We dined and went to the
                                play together, and had rather a nasty accident into the bargain on our way
                            home.'
                    ' What kind of accident ?'
                    I told him the particulars, which seemed to interest him very much. ' And
                            you had all those jewels of poor Sir John's with you, no doubt,' continued Charles.
                            'You said you had them on you day and night. I wonder you were not
                            relieved of them.'
                    'That is just what Carr said,' I went on; 'for
                            he lost something of his, poor fellow. However, I had left them with Jane in a—in a safe
                            place.'
                    I did not think it necessary to mention the tea-caddy.
                    'Oh! so Carr knew you had charge of them, did he?' said Charles.
                            'Have some of these grapes, Middleton ; the white ones are the
                            best.'
                    'Yes,' I said; 'he was the only person who had
                            any idea of such a thing. I am very careful, I can tell you; and I did not mean to have half the ship's company know that I had valuables to
                            such an amount upon me. When I told Jane about them—'
                    'Oh! then Jane—I beg her pardon, Miss Middleton—was aware you had them with
                            you ?' 

                    'Of course!' I replied; 'and she was quite
                            astonished at them when I showed them to her.'
                     ' I hope,' continued Charles, with his charming
                            smile-all the more charming because it was so rare-that Miss Middleton will add me to the
                            number of her friends some day. I live in London, you know; but I wonder at ladies caring to
                            live there. No poultry or garden, to which the female mind usually clings.'
                    'Jane seems to like it,' I said.
                     'Yes,' replied Charles meditatively. ' I dare say she is very wise. A woman
                            who lives alone is much safer in town than in an isolated house in the country, in case of
                            fire, or thieves, or—'

                    
                    'Well, I don't know that,' I said. 'I don't see
                            that they are so very safe. Why, only the night before I came down here—'
                    I stopped. I had looked up to catch a sudden glimpse of Carr's face, pale and uneasy, watching us
                        in a mirror opposite. In a moment I saw his face turn smiling to another—Evelyn's, I think-and
                        both were gone. Charles's light steel eyes were fixed full upon me. 

                    '" Only the night before you came down here," you were saying,' he
                        remarked, leaning back and half shutting them, as usual.
                    'Yes, only the night before I came down here our house was broken
                            into;' and I gave him a short account of what had happened. ' And only the night before that,' I added; 'a
                            poor woman was murdered in Jane's old house. I remember it especially, because I went to the
                            house by mistake, not knowing Jane had moved, and I saw her, poor thing, sitting by the
                            fire. I don't see  that living in town is so much safer for life and property, after all.'
                    'Dear me! no. You are right, perfectly right,' said Charles dreamily.
                        ' Your sister's experience proves it. And that other poor creature—;only
                            the night before—and in Miss Middleton's former house, too. Well, Middleton,' with a
                        start, ' I suppose we ought to be going back now. I have got all I want, if
                            you have. I wonder what time it is ? I'm dog tired.'
                    We re-entered the ball-room to find the last valse being played, and a crowd of people taking
                        leave of Lady Mary.
                     'Where's father ?' asked Charles, as Ralph came up. 'He ought to be here to say good-night.'
                    ' He's gone to bed,' said Ralph. 'Aunt Mary sent
                            him. He was quite done up. He has been on his legs all day. I expect he will be laid up
                            to-morrow.'
                    In a quarter of an hour the ball-room was empty, and Lady Mary, who was dragging Therself wearily towards the hall as the last carriage rolled away,
                        felt that she might safely restore the balance of her mind by a sudden lapse from the gracious
                        and benevolent to the acid and severe.
                    'To bed! to bed!' she kept repeating. 'Where is
                            Evelyn? I want her arm.. General Marston, Colonel Middleton, will you have the goodness to
                            go and glean up these young people? Mrs. Marston and Lady Delmnour, you must both be tired
                            to death. Let us go on, and they can follow.'
                     General Marston and I found a whole flock of the said young people in the library, candle in
                        hand, laughing and talking, thinking they were going that moment, but not doing it, and all, in
                        fact, listening to Charles, who was expounding a theory of his own respecting ball-dresses,
                        which seemed to meet with the greatest feminine derision.
                    'First take your silk slip,' he was saying as we came in. 'There is nothing indiscreet in mentioning a slip, is there, Evelyn ? I trust not; for I heard Lady Delmour telling Mrs. Wright
                            that all well-brought-up young ladies had silk slips. Then—'
                    'He exposes his ignorance more entirely every moment,' said Evelyn. '
                            Let us all go to bed, and leave him to hold forth to men who know as
                            little as himself.'
                     'Oh, Ralph,' said Aurelia, pointing to the jewels on her neck and
                        arms; ' before we go I want you to take back these. I don't like keeping
                            them myself; I am afraid of them.'
                     And she began to take them off and lay them on the table.
                    'Nonsense, my pet! keep them yourself, and lock them up in your
                            dressing-case.' And Ralph held them towards her.
                    'I haven't got a dressing-case,' said Aurelia, pouting; 'and my hat-box won't lock. I don't like having them. I wish you would keep
                            them yourself.'
                    'Bother!' said Ralph ; 'and father has gone to bed.
                            He can't put them back into his safe, and he keeps the key
                            himself. Where is the bag they go in ?'
                    Aurelia said that she had seen him put it behind a certain jar on the chimney-piece in the
                        morning-room, and Carr went for it, she following him with a candle, as all the lamps had been
                        put out. They presently returned with it, and Ralph, who had been collecting all the jewels
                        spread over the table, shovelled them in with little ceremony.
                     'Bother!' he said, again looking round and swinging the bag; 'what on earth am I to do with them ? Ah, well, here goes!' and he opened
                        a side drawer in a massive writing-table and shoved the bag in.
                    ' There!' he said, locking it, and putting the key in his pocket;
                            'they will do very well there till to-morrow. Are you content now,
                            Aurelia ?'
                    'Oh yes,' she said; 'I am, if you are.'
                        And she bade us good-night and followed in the wake of the others, who were really under way at
                        last.
                    
                    As we all tramped wearily upstairs to the smoking-room, I saw Charles draw Ralph aside and
                        whisper something to him.

                    'Nonsense!' I heard Ralph say. 'Safe enough.
                            Besides, who would suspect their being there. Just as safe as in the strong-box. Brahma
                            lock. Won't be bothered any more about them.'
                    Charles shrugged his shoulders and marched off to bed. Ralph and Carr likewise went off shortly
                        afterwards to their rooms in the lodge. Carr looked tired to death. I went down with them, at
                        Ralph's request, to lock the door behind them, as all the servants had gone to bed.
                    It was a fine night, still and cold, with a bright moon. It had evidently been snowing afresh,
                        for there was not a trace of wheels upon the ground; but it had ceased now.
                    'Good-night!' called Ralph and Carr, as they
                        went down the steps together. I watched the two figures for a moment in the moonlight, their footsteps making a double track in the untrodden
                        snow. The cold was intense. I drew back shivering, and locked and bolted the door.
                
            
            
                CHAPTER II
                
                IT is very seldom I cannot sleep, but I could not that night. There was something in the intense
                    quiet and repose of the great house, after all the excitement of the last few hours, that oppressed
                    me. Everything seemed, as I lay awake, so unnaturally silent. There was not a sound in the wide
                    grate, where the last ashes of the fire were silently giving up the ghost, not a rumble of wind in
                    the old chimney, which had had so much to say the night before. I tossed and turned, and vainly
                    sought for sleep, now on this side, now on that. At last I gave up trying, half in the hope that it
                    might steal upon me unawares. I thought of the play and the ball, of poor Charles and his debts—of
                    anything and everything, but it was no good. In the midst of a
                    jumble of disconnected ideas I suddenly found myself listening again to the silence, listening as if
                    it had been broken by a sound which I had not heard. My watch ticked loud and louder on the
                    dressing-table, and presently I gave quite a start as the distant stable clock tolled out the
                    hour—one-two—three—four. I had gone to bed before three. Had I only been awake an hour? It seemed
                    incredible. Getting up on tip-toe, vaguely afraid myself of breaking the silence, I noiselessly
                    pushed aside the heavy curtains and looked out.
                 The moon had set, but by the frosty starlight the outline of the great snow-laden trees and the wide
                    sweep of white drive were still dimly visible. All was silent without as within. Not a branch moved
                    or let fall its freight of snow. There was not a breath of wind stirring. I was on the point of
                    getting back into bed, when I thought in the distance I heard a sound. I listened intently. No! I
                    must have been mistaken. Ah! again, and 1o7  nearer. I held my
                    breath. I could distinctly hear a stealthy step coming up the stairs. My room was the nearest to the
                    staircase end of the corridor, and anyone coming up the stairs must pass my door. With a presence of
                    mind which I am glad to say rarely deserts me, I blew out my candle, slipped to the door, and
                    noiselessly opened it a chink.
                Someone was coming down the corridor with the lightness of a cat, candle in hand, as a faint light
                    showed me. Another moment and I saw Charles, pale and haggard, still in evening dress, coming
                    towards me. He was without his shoes. He passed my door and went noiselessly into his own room, a
                    little further down the passage. There was the faintest suspicion of a sound, as of a key being
                    gently turned in the lock, and then all was still again—stiller than ever.
                 ' What could Charles have been after?' I wondered. He could not have been returning from seeing
                    Denis, who was not only much better, but was in the room beyond his  own. And why had he still got on his evening clothes at four o'clock in the morning? I determined
                    to ask him about it next day as I got back into bed again, and then, while wondering about it and
                    trying to get warm, I fell fast asleep. I was only roused, after being twice called, to find that it
                    was broad daylight, and to hear the boxes being carried down of many of the guests who were leaving
                    by an early train.
                I was late, but not so late as some. Breakfast was still going on. Evelyn and Ralph had been up to
                    see their friends off, but General and Mrs. Marston and Carr, who were staying on, came in after I
                    did. Lady Mary and Aurelia were having breakfast in their own rooms. I think nothing is more dreary
                    than a long breakfast-table, laid for large numbers, with half a dozen picnicing at it among the
                    debris left by earlier ravages. Evelyn, behind the great silver urn, looked pale and preoccupied,
                    and had very little to say for herself when I journeyed up to her 1og end of the table and sat down by her. She asked me twice if I took sugar,
                    and was not bright and alert and ready in conversation, as I think girls should be. Carr, too, was
                    eating his breakfast in silence beside Mrs. Marston. 
                It was not cheerful. And then Charles came in, listless and tired, and without an appetite. He sat
                    down wearily on the other side of Evelyn, and watched her pour out his coffee without a word.
                'The Carews and Edmonts and Lady Delmour and her daughters have just
                    gone,' said Evelyn, 'and Mr. Denis.'
                'Yes,' replied Charles, seeming to pull himself together; ' Denis came to my room before he went. He looked a wreck, poor fellow, but not
                        worse than some of us. These late hours, these friskings with energetic young creatures in the
                        schoolroom, these midnight revels, are too much for me. I feel a perfect wreck this morning,
                        too.'
                He certainly looked it.

                
                'Have you had bad letters?' said Evelyn, in a low voice.
                He laughed a little—a grim laugh—and shook his head. ' But I had
                        yesterday,' he added presently, in a low tone. ' I shall have to try
                        change of air again soon, I am afraid.'
                I was just going to ask Charles what he had been doing walking about in his socks the night before
                    when the door opened, and Ralph, whose absence I had not noticed, came in. He looked much perturbed.
                    It seemed his father had been taken suddenly and alarmingly ill, while dressing. In a moment all was
                    confusion. Evelyn precipitately left the room to go to him, while Charles rushed round to the
                    stables to send a groom on horseback for the nearest doctor. Ralph followed him, and the remainder
                    of the party gathered in a little knot round the fire, Mrs. Marston expressing the sentiment of each
                    of us when she said that she thought visitors were very much in the way when there was illness in the house, and that she regretted that she and her
                    husband had arranged to stay over Sunday, to-day being Friday.
                 'So have I,' said Carr; 'but I am sure I had better have
                        refused. A stranger in a sick house is a positive nuisance. I think I shall go to town by an
                        afternoon train, if there is one.'
                'Upon my word I think we had better do the same,' said Mrs. Marston.
                        'What do you say, Arthur ?' And she turned to her husband.
                'I must go to-day, anyhow— on business,' said General Marston.
                'I hope no one is talking of leaving,' said Charles, who had returned
                    suddenly, rather out of breath.
                As he spoke his eyes were fixed on Carr.
                'Yes, that is exactly what we were doing,' said Mrs. Marston. 'Nothing is so tiresome as having visitors on one's hands when there is illness
                        in the house. Mr. Carr was think- ing of going up to London by
                        the afternoon train; and I have a very good mind to go away with Arthur, instead of staying on,
                        and letting him come back here for me to-morrow, as we had intended.'
                'Pray do not think of such a thing !' said Charles, really with
                    unnecessary earnestness. 'Mrs. Marston, pray do not alter your plans.
                        Carr!' in a much sterner note,' I must beg that you will not think
                        of leaving us to-day. Your friend, Colonel Middleton, is staying on, and we cannot allow you to
                        desert us so suddenly.'
                It was more like a command than an invitation ; but Carr, usually so quick to take a slight, did not
                    seem to notice it, and merely said that he should be happy to go or stay, whichever was most in
                    accordance with the wishes of others, and took up the newspaper. He and Charles did not seem to get
                    on well. I could see that Charles had not seemed to take to him from the very first; and Carr
                    certainly did not appear at ease in the house. Perhaps Charles
                    felt that he had rather failed in courtesy to him, for during the remainder of the morning he hardly
                    let him out of his sight. He took him to see the stables, though Carr openly declared that he did
                    not understand horses; he showed him his collection of Zulu weapons in the vestibule; he even
                    started a game of billiards with him till the arrival of the doctor. I did not think Carr took his
                    attentions in very good part, though he was too well-mannered to show it; but he looked relieved
                    when Charles went upstairs with the doctor, and pitched his cue into the rack at once, and came to
                    the hall fire where I was sitting, and where Aurelia presently joined us, fresh and smiling, in the
                    prettiest of morning gowns. Everyone met in the hall. It was in the centre of the house, and every
                    one coming up or down had to pass through it. Just now it was not so tempting an abode as usual, for
                    the flowers and part of the stage had already been removed, and the bare boards with their wooden supports gave an air of discomfort to the whole place.
                Aurelia opened wide eyes of horror at hearing Sir George was ill. She even got out a tiny laced
                    pocket-handkerchief; but before she had had time to weep much into it and spoil her pretty eyes the
                    doctor reappeared, accompanied by Charles and Ralph, and we all learned to our great relief that Sir
                    George, though undoubtedly ill, was not dangerously so at present, though the greatest care would be
                    necessary. Lady Mary had undertaken the nursing of her brother-in-law, and in her the doctor
                    expressed the same confidence which parents are wont to feel in a stern schoolmaster. In the
                    meantime, the patient was to be kept very quiet, and on no account to be disturbed.
                When the doctor had left, Ralph and Aurelia, who had actually seen nothing of each other that
                    morning, sauntered away together towards the library. Charles challenged Carr to finish his game of
                        billiards; and Marston and I retired upstairs to the
                    smoking-room, where we could talk over our Indian experiences, and perhaps doze undisturbed. We
                    might have been so occupied for half an hour or more when a flying step came up the stairs, the door
                    was thrown open, and Ralph rushed into the room.
                'General Marston! Colonel Middleton!' he gasped out, breathing hard, '
                        will you both of you come to my father's room at once ? He has sent for
                        you.'
                'Good gracious! Is he worse ? I exclaimed.
                'No. Hush! Don't ask anything, but just come,' and he turned and led the
                    way to Sir George Danvers' room.
                 We followed in wondering silence, and, after passing along numerous passages, were ushered into a
                    large, oak-panelled room with a great carved bed in it, in the middle of which, bolt upright, sat
                    Sir George Danvers, pale as ivory, his light steel eyes (so like I16  Charles's) seeming to be the only living thing about him. As we came in,
                    he looked at each of us in turn.
                'Where is Charles ?' he said, speaking in a hoarse whisper.
                ' Dear me! Sir George,' I said sympathetically, ' how you have lost your voice !' 
                He looked at me for a moment, and then turned to Ralph again.
                ' Where is Charles ?' he asked a second time, in the same tone.
                'Here!' said a quiet voice. And Charles came in, and shut the door. 
            

            
                CHAPTER III.
                
                THE two pairs of steel eyes met and looked fixedly at each other.
                A tap came to the door. Sir George winced and made a sign to Ralph, who rushed to it and bolted
                    it.
                'I am coming in, George,' said Lady Mary's voice.
                'Send her away,' came a whisper from the bed.
                This was easier said than done. But it was done after a sufficiently long parley;
                    and Lady Mary retired under the impression that Ralph was sitting alone with his father, who thought
                    he might get a little sleep.
                'Now,' whispered Sir George, motioning to Ralph.
                ' The fact is,' said Ralph, 'the jewels are gone. They have been stolen in the night.'
                He blurted out with this one sentence, and then was silent. Marston and I stared at him aghast.
                'Is there no mistake ?' said Marston at last.
                'None,' replied Ralph. 'I put them in a drawer in the
                        great inlaid writing-table in the library last night, before everybody. I went for them this
                        morning, half an hour ago, at father's request. The lock was broken, and they were
                    gone.'
                There was another long silence.
                'I was a fool, of course, to put them there,' resumed Ralph. ' Charles told me so; but I thought they were as safe there as anywhere, if no one
                        knew—and no one did, except the house party.'
                ' Were any of the servants about ?' asked Marston.
                'Not one. They had all gone to bed except one of the footmen, who was putting  out the lamps in the supper-room, miles away.'
                Another silence.
                'That is the dreadful part of it,' burst out Ralph. 'They must have been taken by someone staying in the house—someone who saw me put them there.
                        The first thing I did was to send for the housemaids, and they assured me that they had found
                        every shutter shut, and every door locked, this morning, as usual. Anyone with time and wits might have got in through one of the library windows by taking out a pane and
                        forcing the shutter. I suppose a practised hand might have done such a thing; but I went
                        outside, and there was not a footstep in the snow anywhere near the library windows, or, for
                        that matter, anywhere near the house at all, except at the side and front doors, which are
                        impracticable for anyone to force an entrance by.'
                'When did it leave off snowing?' asked Marston.
                
                'About three o'clock,' replied Ralph. 'It must have
                        snowed heavily till then, for there was not a trace of all the carriage-wheels on the drive when
                        we went out last night, but our footprints down to the lodge are clear in the snow now. There
                        has been no snow since three o'clock this morning.'
                 'It all points to the same thing,' said Charles quietly, speaking for
                    the first time. 'The jewels were taken by someone staying in the house.' 
                'One of the servants—' began Marston.
                ' No,' said Charles, cutting him short, 'not one of
                        the servants.'
                'It is impossible it should have been one of them,' said Ralph, after some
                    thought. 'First of all, none of them saw the jewels put into that drawer, and
                        secondly, how could they suspect me of hiding them in a place where I had never thought of
                        putting them myself till that moment? Besides, that one drawer only was broken open—the centre
                        drawer in the left-hand set of drawers. All the others were
                        untouched, though they were all locked. No one who had not seen the jewels put
                        in would have found them so easily. That is the frightful part of it.'
                For a few minutes no one spoke. At last Marston raised his head from his hands.
                'There is no way out of it,' he said very gravely. 'The robbery was committed by one of the visitors staying in the house.'
                'Yes,' said Charles.
                'Yes,' echoed a whisper from the bed. 
                Charles looked up slowly and deliberately, and the eyes of father and son met again. 
                'We do not often agree, father,' he said in a measured voice. ' I mark this exception to the rule with pleasure.'
                'When I had made out as much as this,' continued Ralph, ' father told me to call both of you and Charles, to consider what ought to be done
                        before we make any move. '
                Have you an inventory of the jewels ?' asked Marston at length.
                
                'None,' said Sir George, ' unless Middleton had one
                        from Sir John.'
                I thereupon recapitulated in full all the circumstances of the bequest, finally adding that Sir John
                    had never so much as mentioned an inventory. 
                'So much the better for the thief,' said Marston, his chin in his hands.
                        'It is not a case for a detective,' he added.
                'I think not,' said Charles.
                A kind of hoarse ghostly laugh came from the bed.
                'Charles is always right,' whispered the sick man. 'Quite unnecessary, I am sure.'
                'Oh, I don't know,' I said, feeling I had not yet been of as much
                    assistance as I could have wished. ' Now I think detectives
                        are of use—really useful, you know, in finding out things. There was a detective, I remember,
                        trying to trace the people who murdered that poor lady at Jane's old house since my
                        return.'
                'But who could it have been ?—who could  it have
                        been ?' burst out Ralph, unheeding. 'They were all friends. It is
                        frightful to suspect one of them. One could as easily suspect one's self. Which of them all
                        could have done a thing like that ? Out of them all, which is it ?'
                'Carr!' replied Charles quietly, looking full at his father.
                If a bombshell had fallen among us at that moment it could not have produced a greater effect than
                    that one word, uttered so deliberately. Sir George started in his bed, and clutched at the
                    bedclothes with both hands. My brain positively reeled. Carr !—my friend Carr !—introduced into the
                    family by myself, was being accused by Charles. I was speechless with indignation.
                ' I am sorry, Middleton,' continued Charles. ' I
                        know he is your friend, but I can't help that. Carr took the jewels. I distrusted him from the
                        moment he set foot in the house.' 
                'Where is he at this instant ?' said Marston, getting up. 'Is no one with him ?' 

                
                'There is no reason to be anxious on his account,' replied Charles.
                        'I took him up to the smoking-room before I came here, and I turned the key
                        in the door. The key is here.' And he laid it on the table.
                Marston sat down again.
                'What are your grounds for suspecting Carr?' he asked. 'Remember, this is a very serious thing, Charles, that you have done in locking
                        him up if you have not adequate reason for it.'
                'You had better leave Carr alone, Charles,' said Ralph significantly.
                'Let him go on,' said Sir George.
                'I have no proof,' continued Charles; ' I did not
                        see him take them, but I am as certain of it as if I had seen it with my own eyes. The jewels
                        could only have been stolen by someone staying in the house. That is certain. Who, excepting
                        Carr, was a stranger among us? Who, excepting Carr—'
                'Stop, Charles!' said Ralph again. ' Don't  you know that Carr slept with me down at the lodge ?'
                 Charles turned on his brother and gripped his shoulder.
                'Do you mean to say,' he said sharply, ' that Carr
                        did not sleep in the house last night ?' 
                'Dear me, Charles, that was an oversight on your part,' came Sir George's
                    whisper.
                'No,' replied Ralph, 'he did not. The house was full,
                        and we had to put him in that second small room through mine in the lodge. If Carr had been
                        dying to take them he had not the opportunity. He could not have left his room without passing
                        through mine, and I never went to sleep at all. I had a sharp touch of neuralgia from the cold,
                        which kept me awake all night.'
                'He got out through the window,' said Charles.
                'Nonsense!' said Ralph, getting visibly angry; 'you are
                        only making matters worse by trying to put it on him. Remember the size of the window. Besides, you know how the lodge stands, built
                        against the garden wall. When I came out this morning there was not a single footstep in the
                        snow, except those we had made as we went there the night before. I noticed our footmarks
                        particularly, because I had been afraid there would be more snow. No one could by any
                        possibility have left the house during the night. Even Jones himself had not been out, for there
                        was a little eddy of snow before the back door, and I remember calling to him that he would want
                        his broom.' 
                'The snow clinches the matter, Charles,' said Marston gravely. 'You have made a mistake.'
                'Quite unintentional, I'm sure,' whispered Sir George. 
                There was something I did not like about that whisper. It seemed to imply more than met the ear.
                Charles did not appear to hear him. He was looking fixedly before him, his hand had dropped from Ralph's shoulder; his face was quite gray.
                'Then,' he said slowly, as if waking out of a dream, ' it was not Carr.'
                'No,' said Sir George; ' I never thought it
                    was.' 
                'Good God!' ejaculated Charles, sinking into a low chair by the fire, and
                    shading his face with his hand. 'Not Carr, after all!'
                But my indignation could not be restrained a moment longer. I had only been kept silent by repeated
                    signs from Marston, and now I broke out.
                'And so, sir, you suspect my friend,' I said,' and
                        insult him in your father's house by turning the key on him. You endeavour to throw suspicion on
                        a man who never injured you in the slightest degree. You insult me in
                        insulting my friend, sir. Suspicion is not always such an easy thing to shake off as it has been
                        in this instance. I, on my side, might ask what you were doing, Is  walking about the passages in your socks at four o'clock this
                        morning? In your socks, sir, still in your evening clothes—'
                I had spoken in anger, not thinking much what I was saying, and I stopped short, alarmed at the
                    effect of my own words.
                'I knew it! I knew it!' screamed Sir George, in a sort of suffocated
                    whistle, and he fell back gasping among his pillows.
                 Charles took his hand from his face, and looked hard at me with a strange kind of smile.
                'At any rate, we are quits, Middleton,' he said. 'You have done it now, and no mistake.'
                I did not quite see what I had done, but it soon became apparent.
                ' I knew it !' gasped out the sick man again. 'I knew
                        it from the first moment that he tried to throw suspicion on Carr.'
                'Sir George,' said Marston gravely, 'Charles made a
                        mistake just now. Do not you on your side make another. Come, Charles,' turning to the latter, who was now sitting erect with flashing eyes, ' tell us about it. What were you doing when Middleton saw you ?'


                'I was coming upstairs,' said Charles haughtily.
                 'From the library ?' asked Sir George.
                Charles bit his lip and remained silent. I would not have spoken to him for a good deal at that
                    moment. He looked positively dangerous.
                'From the library, of course,' he said at last, controlling himself, and
                    speaking with something of his old careless manner, 'laden with the spoils of
                        my midnight depredations. Parental fondness will supply all minor details, no doubt; so, as the
                        subject is a delicate one for me, I will withdraw, that it may be discussed more fully in my
                        absence.'
                'Stop, Charles,' said Marston; 'the case is too
                        serious for banter of this kind. My dear boy,' he added kindly, 'I am glad to see you angry, but
                        nevertheless you must  condescend to explain. The longer you
                        allow suspicion to rest on yourself, the longer it will be before it falls on the right person.
                        Come, what were you doing in the passage at that time of night ?'
                Charles was touched, I could see. A very little kindness was too much for him.
                'It is no good, Marston,' he said, in quite a different voice; ' I am not believed in this house.' He turned away and leant against the
                    mantelpiece, looking into the fire. Ralph cleared his throat once or twice, and then suddenly went
                    up to him, and laid his hand affectionately on his shoulder.
                 ' Fire away, old boy!' he said in a constrained tone, and he choked
                    again.
                Charles turned round and faced his brother with the saddest smile I ever saw. 
                'Well, Ralph!' he said, 'I will tell you everything;
                        and then you can believe me or not, as you like. I have never told you a lie, have I
                    ?'
                
                'Not often,' replied Ralph unwillingly.
                ' You at least are truth itself,' said Charles, reddening; 'and if you are biassed in your opinion of me, perhaps it is more the fault of
                        that exemplary Christian, Aunt Mary, than your own. According to her, I have told lies enough to
                        float a company or carry an election, and I never like to disappoint her expectations of me in
                        that respect; but you I have never to my knowledge deceived, and I am not going to begin
                        now.'
                'You will be a clergyman yet,' whispered the sick parent. ' There is a good living in the family, Charles. I shall live to see the Reverend
                        Charles Danvers in a surplice, preaching his first sermon on the ninth commandment.'
                'At any rate he is practising the fifth under difficulties at this
                    moment,' said Marston, as Charles winced and turned his back on the parental sick-bed. 'Come, my boy, we are losing time.'
                'Will somebody have the goodness to restrain
                        Middleton if he gets excited?' said Charles. ' I am afraid he won't
                        like part of what I have got to say.'
                'Nonsense, sir!' I replied with warmth. ' I hope I
                        can restrain myself as well as any man, even under such provocation as I have lately received.
                        You may depend on me, sir, that—'
                'We lose time,' said Marston, seating himself by me, and cutting short
                    what I was saying in an exceedingly brusque manner. 'Come, Charles, you shall
                        not be interrupted.'
                But he was. I interrupted him the whole time, in spite of continual efforts on the part of Marston to
                    make me keep silence. I am not the man calmly to let pass black insinuations against the character
                    of a friend. No, I stood up for him. I am glad to think how I stood up for him, not only
                    metaphorically, but in the most literal sense of the term; for I found myself continually getting
                    up, and Marston as often pulling me down again into my chair.
                
                'Am I to speak, or is Middleton?' said Charles at last, in despair. '
                        I will do a solo, or I will keep silence; but, really I am unequal to a
                        duet.'
                'Sir George,' said Marston, 'will you have the
                        goodness to desire Colonel Middleton to be silent, or to leave the room till Charles has
                        finished his story.'
                I was justly annoyed at Marston's manner of speaking of me, but as I had no intention to leave the
                    room and miss what was going on, I merely bowed in answer to a civil request from Sir George, and
                    took up an attitude of dignified silence. I felt that I had done my part in vindicating my friend,
                    and after all no one evidently was accustomed to believe what Charles said.
                'As I was saying,' he continued, 'I suspected Carr
                        from the first. I did not like the look of him, and I purposely pumped Middleton about him last
                        night at supper.'
                I nearly burst out at the bare idea of Charles daring to say he had pumped me; but, as will be seen, he could twist anything that was said to such an
                    extent that it was perfectly useless to contradict him any longer. I said not a single word, and he
                    went on:
                'All Middleton told me confirmed me in my suspicions. Sir John had been murdered
                        the night before Middleton sailed for England, a whisper of the jewels having no doubt gone
                        abroad. Carr came on board next day, and made friends with Middleton. Whether he had anything to
                        do with the murder or not, God knows! but he found out—nay, Middleton openly told him that he
                        had jewels of great value in his possession, which he carried about on his person. Carr was the
                        only person aware of that fact. What follows ? Carr has Middleton's address in London. Middleton
                        goes to the house and finds that his sister has moved to the next street. The house to which he
                        first went is broken into, and the poor woman in it is murdered, or dies of fright, that same
                        night. I mention this as coincidence number one. The following
                        evening Middleton, having by chance left the jewels at home, dines and goes to the theatre by
                        appointment with Carr. Unique cab accident occurs, in which Middleton is knocked on the head and
                        rendered unconscious. Coincidence number two. Miss Middleton's house is broken into that same
                        night on Middleton's return to it. Coincidence number three. When I put all this together last
                        night, remembering that Carr, by Middleton's own account, was the only person aware that he had
                        jewels of great value in his keeping, I felt absolutely certain (as I feel still) that he had
                        accepted the invitation and come down from London solely for the purpose of stealing them. It
                        was pure conjecture on my part, and I dared say nothing beyond begging Ralph not to leave the
                        jewels in the library—which, however, he did. I went straight off to my room when the others
                        went to smoke, but I did not go to bed. The more I thought it over, the more certain I felt that
                        Carr would not let  slip such an opportunity, the more
                        convinced that an attempt would be made that very night. I did not know that he was not sleeping
                        in the house, but I knew Ralph was at the lodge, so I could not go and consult with him as I
                        should otherwise have done. I thought of going to Middleton, whose room was close to mine, but
                        on second thoughts I gave up the idea. I am glad I did. At last I determined I would wait till
                        the house was quiet, and that then I would go down alone, and watch in the library in the dark.
                        I lay down on my bed in my clothes to wait, and then—I had been up most of the night before with
                        Denis, and was dead beat with acting and dancing—by ill luck I fell asleep. When I woke up, I
                        found to my horror that it was close on four o'clock. I instantly slipped off my shoes, and
                        crept out of my room and down the stairs. I could not get to the library from the hall, as the
                        stage blocked the way, and I had to go all the way round by the drawing-room and morning-room. As I went I thought how easy it would be for Carr to
                        force the lock of the drawer; and so, it flashed across me, could I. Oh! Ralph,' said
                    Charles. 'I went down solely to look after your property for you, but I did think of it. I hope I should not have done it, but I suddenly remembered
                        how hard pressed I was for money, and I did think of the crescent, and how you would hardly miss
                        it, and how-but what does it matter now ? When I got to the library I found I was too late. The
                        lock of the drawer had been forced, and it was empty. There was nothing for it but to go back to
                        my room. I felt as certain that Carr had done it as that I am standing here; but I dared say
                        nothing this morning, for fear of drawing an ever-ready parental suspicion on myself—which,
                        however, Middleton did for me. All I could do was to keep Carr well in sight until the theft was
                        found out, to prevent any possibility of his escaping, and then to accuse him. There !'
                    said Charles, ' that  is the whole truth. Carr
                        did not take the jewels. That is absolutely proved, and the sooner he is let out the better. Who
                        took them, Heaven only knows ! I don't. But I know who meant to, and that was Carr.'
                'Charles,' said Ralph, with glistening eyes, 'if ever I
                        get them back, you shall have the crescent.'
                'A very neat little story altogether,' said Sir George, 'and the episode of temptation very effectively thrown in. It does you credit, my
                        son, and is a great relief to your old father's mind.'
                'Thank you, Charles,' said Marston, getting up. ' Sir George, it is close on luncheon time, and Carr must be let out at once. Now that Charles
                        has so completely cleared himself, I don't see that anything more can be done for the moment;
                        and of one thing I am certain— namely, that you are making yourself much worse, and must keep
                        absolutely quiet for the rest of the day. If I may advise, I should suggest that Carr should be allowed to leave, as he wishes to do, by the
                        afternoon train, and should not be pressed to stay. There is nothing more to be got out of him,
                        and, considering the circumstances, I should say the sooner he is out of the house the better.
                        As he has been wrongly suspected, I think the robbery had better not be mentioned to anyone,
                        even the ladies in the house, until after he has left.'
                 'Aurelia knows,' said Ralph. 'She was with me in the
                        library. I left her crying bitterly about them.'
                'Let her cry, if she will only hold her tongue,' said Sir George, making a
                    last effort to speak, but evidently at the extreme point of exhaustion. 'And
                        you, Marston, you are right about Carr. See that he goes this afternoon. There is nothing more
                        to be done at present. Charles, you will remain here, though I have no doubt you have an
                        engagement in London. I cannot spare you just yet.'
                Charles bowed, and he and Marston went  out. I remained a second
                    behind with Ralph.
                'I see it quite clearly,' said Sir George. 'I know
                        Charles. He is sharp enough. He saw Carr meant mischief, and he was beforehand with him; and he
                        took what Carr meant to take. It was not badly imagined, but he should have made certain Carr
                        was sleeping in the house. It all turned on that. He never reckoned on the possibility of Carr
                        being cleared.'
                'Middleton is still here,' said Ralph, who was pouring out something for
                    his father, significantly.
                'Is he ? I thought he was gone !' said Sir George, so sharply that I
                    considered it advisable to retire at once. 
                Charles and Marston were talking together earnestly in the passage.
                'He does not believe a word I say,' said Charles, as I joined them;
                        'and, what is more, I could see he had told Ralph he suspected me before we
                        came in. Did not you see how Ralph tried to stop me when he
                        thought I was committing myself by accusing Carr, who, it seems, was quite out of the question ?
                        I am glad you cut it short, Marston. He was making himself worse every moment.'
                'Come on with that key of yours, and let us go and let Carr out,' replied
                    Marston, patting Charles kindly on the back, 'or he will be kicking all the
                        paint off the door.'
                'Not he,' said Charles. 'An honest man would have
                        rung up the whole household and nearly battered the door down by this time, thinking it had been
                        locked by mistake. Carr knows better.'
                We had reached the smoking-room by this time, just as the gong was beginning to sound for luncheon,
                    and, under cover of the noise, Charles fitted the key into the keyhole and unlocked the door. He and
                    Marston went slowly in, talking on some indifferent subject, and I followed. 
            

            
                CHAPTER IV
                
                 THE room seemed strangely quiet after the stormy interview in the sick-chamber which we had just
                    left. The pale winter sunlight was stealing in aslant through the low windows. The fire had sunk to
                    a deep-red glow, and in an arm-chair drawn up in front of it, newspaper in hand, was Carr, evidently
                    fast asleep.
                '"Oh, my prophetic soul!"' whispered Charles, nudging Marston; and then
                    he went forward and shouted ' Luncheon !' in a voice that would have
                    waked the dead.
                Carr started up, and rubbed his eyes.
                'Why, I believe you have been here ever since I left you hours ago,' said
                    Charles in a surprised tone, though, really, under the circumstances, it did not require a great  stretch of the imagination to suppose any such thing.
                'Yes,' said Carr, still rubbing his eyes. 'Have you been
                        gone long? I expect I fell asleep.'
                ' I rather thought you were inclined for a nap when I teft you,' replied
                    Charles airily; 'and now let us go to luncheon.'
                It was a very dismal meal. Lady Mary did not come down to it, and Aurelia sat with red eyes, tearful
                    and silent. Ralph was evidently out of favour, for she hardly spoke to him, and snubbed him
                    decidedly when he humbly tendered a peace-offering in the form of a potato. Evelyn, too, was silent,
                    or made spasmodic attempts at conversation with Mrs. Marston, the only unconstrained person of the
                    party. Evelyn and Aurelia had appeared together, and it was evident from Evelyn's expression that
                    Aurelia had told her. What conversation there was turned upon Sir George's illness.
                'We must go by the afternoon train, my 
                        dear,' said Marston down the table to his wife. ' In Sir George's
                        present state all visitors are an incubus.
                ' Carr looked up. ' I think I ought to go too' he said. ' I wished to arrange to do so this morning, but Mr. Danvers'—glancing at Charles—' would not hear of it. I am sure when there is illness in a house, strangers are
                        always in the way.'
                'I have seen my father since then,' replied Charles, ' and I fear his illness is much more serious than I had any idea of. That being
                        the case, I feel it would be wrong to press anyone, even Middleton, to stay, and share the
                        tedium of a sick house.'
                After a few more civil speeches it was arranged that Carr should, after all, leave by the train which
                    he had proposed in the morning. It was found that there was still time for him to do so, but that
                    was all. He was evidently as anxious to be off as the Danvers were that he should go. The dog-cart
                    was ordered, a servant despatched to the lodge in hot haste to
                    pack his portmanteau, and in half an hour he was bidding us good-bye, evidently glad to say it. Poor
                    fellow! he little guessed, as he shook hands with us, how shamefully he had been suspected, how
                    villainously he had been traduced behind his back. Somehow or other I had not had a moment of
                    conversation with him since the morning, or a single chance of telling him how I had stood up for
                    him in his absence. Either Charles or Marston was always at hand, and when he took leave of me I
                    could only shake his hand warmly, and tell him to come and see me again in town. I watched him
                    spinning down the drive in the dog-cart, little thinking how soon I should see him again, and in
                    what circumstances.
                'We shall have more snow,' said Ralph, coming indoors. ' I feel it in the air.'
                General and Mrs. Marston were the next to leave, starting an hour later, and going in the opposite
                    direction. I saw Marston turn aside when his wife was taking leave of the  others, and go up to Charles. The young hand and the old one met, and
                    were locked tight.
                'Good-bye, my dear boy,' said Marston. 
                ' Don't go,' said Charles, without looking up. 
                'I must!' said Marston. 'I am due at Kemberley
                        to-night, on business; but '—in a lower tone—' I shall come back
                        to-morrow in case I can be of any use.'
                They were gone, and I was the only one remaining. It has occurred to me since that perhaps they
                    expected me to go, too, but I never thought of it at the time. I had been asked for a week, and to
                    go before the end of it never so much as entered my head.
                There was no chance of going out. The early winter afternoon was already closing in, and a few flakes
                    of snow were drifting like feathers in the heavy air, promising more to come. Everyone seemed to
                    have dispersed, Ralph upstairs to his father, Charles out-of-doors somewhere, in spite  of the weather. I remembered that I had not written to Jane since I left
                    London, and went into the library to do so. As I came in I saw Evelyn sitting in a low chair by the
                    fire, gazing abstractedly into it. She started when she saw me, and on my saying I wished to write
                    some letters, showed me a writing-table near the fire, with pens, ink and paper.
                'You will find it very cold at the big table in the window,' she said,
                    looking at it with its broken drawer, a chink open,, with a visible shudder.
                I installed myself near the fire, talking cheerfully the while, for it struck me she was a little low
                    in her spirits. She did not make much response, and I was settling down to my letters when she
                    suddenly said :
                'Colonel Middleton !'
                'Yes, Miss Derrick.'
                ' I am afraid I am interrupting your writing, but —'
                
                I looked round. She was standing up, nervously playing with her rings.
                'But—I know I am not supposed to—but I know what happened last night. Aurelia
                        told me.'
                'It is very sad, isn't it?' I said. 'But cheer up. I
                        dare say we may get them back yet.' And I nodded confidentially at her. 'In the meantime, you know, you must not talk of it to anyone.'
                'Do you suspect anyone in particular?' she asked very earnestly, coming a
                    step nearer.
                I hardly knew what to say. Carr, I need hardly mention, I had never suspected for a moment; but
                    Charles— Marston had evidently believed what Charles had said, but I am by nature more cautious and
                    less credulous than Marston. Besides, I had not forgiven Charles yet for trying to incriminate Carr.
                    Not knowing what to say, I shrugged my shoulders and smiled.
                'You do suspect someone, then ?'
                
                ' My dear young lady,' I replied, 'when jewels are
                        stolen one naturally suspects someone has taken them.'
                'So I should imagine. Whom do you naturally suspect ?'
                I could not tell her that I more than suspected Charles.
                ' I know nothing for certain,' I said.
                ' But you have a suspicion ?'
                ' I have a suspicion.'
                She went to the door to see if it were shut, and then came back and said in a whisper:
                'So have I.'
                'Perhaps we suspect the same person?' I said.
                She did not answer, but fixed her dark eyes keenly on mine. I had never noticed before how dark they
                    were.
                I saw then that she knew, and that she suspected Charles just as Sir George had done.
                I nodded.
                'Nothing is proved,' I said. 
                'I dared not say even so much as this before,' she continued hurriedly. '
                        It is only the wildest, vaguest suspicion. I have nothing to take hold of.
                        It is so horrible to suspect anyone ; but—'
                She stopped suddenly. Her quick ear had caught the sound of a distant step coming across the hall. In
                    another moment Aurelia came in.
                'Are you there, Evelyn?' she said. ' I was looking
                        for you, to ask where the time-table is. I want to look out my journey for to-morrow. Ralph
                        ought to do it, but he is upstairs,' with a little pout. 
                'You ought not to have quarrelled with him until he had made it out for
                        you,' said Evelyn, smiling. ' It is a very cross journey, isn't it ?
                        Let me see, you are going to your uncle in Dublin, are not you? You had better go to London, and
                        start from there, It will be the shortest way in the end.'
                The two girls laid their heads together over the Bradshaw, Evelyn's dark soft hair  making a charming contrast to Aurelia's yellow curls. At last the journey
                    was made out and duly written down, and a postcard despatched to her uncle in Dublin.
                'Have you seen Ralph anywhere ?' asked Aurelia when she had finished it.
                        'I am afraid I was a little tiny wee bit cross to him this morning, and I
                        am so sorry.'
                 Evelyn always seemed to stiffen when Aurelia talked about Ralph, and, under pretext of putting her
                    postcard in the letter-bag for her, she presently left the room and did not return.
                Aurelia sat down on the hearthrug, and held two plump little hands to the fire. It was quite
                    impossible to go on writing to Jane while she was there, and I gave it up accordingly.
                ' I am glad Evelyn is gone,' she said confidentially. ' Do you know why I am glad ?'
                I said I could not imagine.
                'Because,' continued Aurelia, nodding gravely at me, ' I want to have a very, very, very serious conversation with you, Colonel Middleton.'
                I said I should be charmed, inwardly wondering what that little curly head would consider to be
                    serious conversation.
                'Really serious, you know,' continued Aurelia, 'not
                        pretence. About that!' pointing with a pink finger at the inlaid writing-table. 'You know I was with Ralph when he found it out, and I am afraid I was a little
                        cross to him, only really it was so hard, and they were so lovely, and it was
                        partly his fault, now, wasn't it, for leaving them there ? He ought to have been more
                        careful.'
                ' Of course he ought,' I said. I would not have contradicted her for
                    worlds.
                'And you know I am to be married next month, and Aunt Alice in Dublin, who is
                        getting my things, says as it is to be a winter wedding, I am to be married in a white frisé velvet, and I did think the diamonds would have looked so lovely with
                        it. Wouldn't they ?'
                
                I agreed, of course.
                'But I shall never be married in them now,' she said with a deep sigh.
                        'And I was looking forward to the wedding so much, though I dare say I did
                        tell a naughty little story when I said I was not to Ralph the other night. Of course, Ralph is
                        still left,' she added as an afterthought; 'but it won't be so
                        perfect, will it ?'
                I was morally certain Charles would have to give them up, so I said reassuringly :
                'Perhaps you may be married in them after all.'
                'Oh,' she said, clasping her hands together, 'do you really think so? Do you
                        know anything ? I have not seen Ralph since to ask him about it. Do you think we shall really
                        get them back?'
                ' I should not wonder.'
                'Oh, Colonel Middleton, I see you know. You are a clever, wise man, and you have
                        found out something. Who is it? Do tell me.'
                
                'Will you promise not to tell anyone ?'
                'Mayn't I tell Ralph ? I tell him everything.'
                 'Well, you may tell Ralph, because he knows already; but no one else, remember.
                        The truth is, we are afraid it is Charles.'
                 There was a long pause.
                'I know Evelyn thinks so,' said Aurelia in a whisper, 'though she tries not to show it, because—because—'
                'Because what ?'
                'Well, of course, you can't have helped seeing, can you, that she and
                        Charles—'
                I had not seen it. Indeed, I had fancied at times that Evelyn had a leaning towards Ralph ; but I
                    never care to seem slower than others in noticing these things, so I nodded.
                'And then, you know, people can't be married that haven't any money, and Charles
                        and Evelyn have none,' said Aurelia. 'Oh ! I am glad Ralph is well
                        off.'
                A light was breaking in on me. Perhaps it was not Charles after all. Perhaps—
                
                'I am afraid Evelyn is very unhappy,' continued Aurelia. ' Her room is next to mine, and she walks up and down and up and down, in the
                        night. I hear her when I am in bed. Last night I heard her so late, so late that I had been to
                        sleep and had waked up again. Do you know'—and she crept close up to me with wide,
                    awestruck eyes—' I am going away to-morrow, and I don't like to say anything to
                        anyone but you; but I think Evelyn knows something.'
                'Miss Derrick!' I said, beginning to suspect that she possibly knew a
                    good deal more than any of us, and then suddenly remembering that she had been on the point of
                    telling me something and had been interrupted. I was getting quite confused. She certainly would not
                    have wished to confide in me if my new suspicion were correct. Considering there was a mystery, it
                    was curious how everyone seemed to know something very particular about it.
                'Yes,' replied Aurelia, nodding once or twice. ' I am sure she knows something. I went into her room before luncheon,
                        and she was sitting with her head down on the dressing-table, and when she looked up I saw she
                        had been crying. I don't know what to say about it to Ralph; but you know' —with a shake
                    of the curls—' though people may think me only a silly little thing, yet I do
                        notice things, Colonel Middleton. Aunt Alice in Dublin often says how quickly I notice things.
                        And I thought, as you were staying on, and seemed to be a friend, I would tell you this before I
                        went away, as you would know best what to do about it.'
                 Aurelia had more insight into character than I had given her credit for. She had hit upon the most
                    likely person to follow out a clue, however slight, in a case that seemed becoming more and more
                    complicated. I inwardly resolved that I would have it out with Miss Derrick that very evening. Lady
                    Mary now came in, and servants followed shortly afterwards with lamps. The dreary  twilight, with its dim whirlwinds of driving snow, was shut out, the
                    curtains were drawn, and tea made its appearance. Evelyn presently returned, and Charles also, who
                    civilly wished Lady Mary good-morning, not having seen her till then. She handed him his tea without
                    a word in reply. It was evident that she also was aware of the robbery, and it is hardly necessary
                    to add that she suspected Charles.
                'How is my father?' he asked, taking no notice of the frigidity of her
                    manner.
                'He is asleep at this moment,' she replied. ' Ralph is
                        remaining with him.' 
                'He is better, then, I hope ?'
                'He is in a very critical state, and is likely to remain in it. His illness was
                        quite serious enough, without having it increased by one of his own household.'
                 'Ah, I was afraid that had been the case,' returned Charles. ' I knew you had been doctoring him when he was out of sorts yesterday. But you
                        must not reproach yourself, Aunt Mary. We are none of us
                        infallible. No doubt you acted for the best at the time, and I dare say what you gave him may
                        not do him any permanent injury.'
                'If that is intended to be amusing,' said Lady Mary, her teacup trembling in
                    her hand, ' I can only say that, in my opinion, wilfully misunderstanding a simple
                        statement is a very cheap form of wit.'
                'I am so glad to hear you say so,' said Charles, rising, ' as it was at your expense.'
                 With which Parthian shot he withdrew.
                I endeavoured in vain to waylay Evelyn after tea, but she slipped away almost before it was over, and
                    did not appear again till dinner-time. In the meanwhile my brain, fertile in expedients on most
                    occasions, could devise no means by which I could speak to her alone and without Charles's
                    knowledge. I felt I must trust to chance.
            

            
            
            
            
            
                PART III
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER I.
                     WHEN I came down before dinner, I found Ralph and Charles talking earnestly by the hall fire,
                        Ralph's hand on his brother's shoulder.
                    ' You see, we are no farther forward than we were,' he was saying.
                    'We shall have Marston back to morrow,' said Charles, as the gong
                        began to sound. 'We cannot take any step till then, especially if we don't
                            want to put our foot in it. I have been racking my brains all the afternoon without the
                            vestige of a result. We must just hold our hands for the moment.'
                    Dinner was announced, and we waited patiently for a few minutes, and impatiently for a good many
                        more, until Evelyn hurried down, apologizing for being late, and with a  message from Lady Mary that we were not to wait for her, as she was
                        dining upstairs in herown room-a practice to which she seemed rather addicted.
                    'And where is Aurelia ?' asked Ralph.
                    'She is not coming down to dinner either,' said Evelyn. ' She has a bad headache again, and is lying down. She asked me to tell you that
                            she wishes particularly to see you this evening, as she is going away to-morrow, and if she
                            is well enough she will come down to the morning-room at nine; indeed, she said she would
                            come down, anyhow.'
                    After Ralph's natural anxiety respecting his lady-love had been relieved, and he had been
                        repeatedly assured that nothing much was amiss, we went in to dinner, and a more lugubrious
                        repast I never remember being present at. The meals of the day might have been classified thus :
                        Breakfast, dismal; luncheon, dismaller (or more dismal);
                        dinner, dismallest (or most dismal). There really was no conversation. Even I, who, without going very deep (which I
                        consider is not in good taste), have something to say on almost every subject—even I felt myself
                        nonplussed for the time being. Each of us in turn got out a few constrained words, and then
                        relapsed into silence.
                    Evelyn ate nothing, and her hand trembled so much when she poured out a glass of water that she
                        spilt some on the cloth. I saw Charles was watching her furtively, and I became more and more
                        certain that Aurelia was right, and that Evelyn knew something about the mystery of the night
                        before. I must and would speak to her that very evening.
                    'Bitterly cold,' said Ralph, when at last we had reached the dessert
                        stage. ' It is snowing still, and the wind is getting up.'
                    In truth, the wind was moaning round the house like an uneasy spirit.
                    'That sound in the wind always means snow,' said Charles, evidently
                        for the sake 165  of saying something. ' It is easterly, I should think. Yes '—after a pause, when another silence seemed
                        imminent—' there's goes the eight o'clock train. It must be quite a quarter
                            of an hour late, though, for it has struck eight some time. I can hear it distinctly. The
                            station is three miles away, and you never hear the train unless the wind is in the
                            east.'
                    'Come, Charles, not three miles—two and a half,' put in Ralph.
                     'Well, two and a half from here down to the station, but certainly three
                            from the station up here,' replied Charles.
                    And so silence was laboriously avoided by diligent small-talk until we returned to the
                        drawing-room, thankful that there at least we could take up a book and be silent if we wished.
                        We all did wish it, apparently. Evelyn was sitting by a lamp when we came in, with a book before
                        her, her elbow on the table, shading her face with a slender, delicate hand. She remained
                        motionless, her eyes fixed upon the page, but I noticed after
                        some time that she had not turned it over. Charles may have read his newspaper, but if he did,
                        it was with one eye upon Evelyn all the time. Between watching them both I did not, as may be
                        imagined, make much progress myself. How was I to manage to speak to Evelyn alone, and without
                        Charles's knowledge ?
                    At last Ralph, who had gone into the morning-room, opened the drawing-room door, and put his head
                        in.
                     'Aurelia has not come down yet, and it is a quarter past nine. I wish you
                            would run up, Evelyn, and see if she is coming.'
                    'She is sure to come,' replied Evelyn, without raising her eyes.
                            'She said she must see you.'
                    Ralph disappeared again, and the books and papers were studied anew with unswerving devotion. At
                        the end of another ten minutes, however, the impatient lover reappeared.
                    
                    ' It is half-past nine,' he said in an injured tone. 'Do pray run up, Evelyn. I don't think she can be coming at all. I am afraid she
                            is worse.'
                    Evelyn laid down her book and left the room. Ralph sauntered back into the morning-room, where we
                        heard him beguiling his solitude with a few chords on the piano.
                    Presently Evelyn returned. She was pale even to the lips, and her voice faltered as she said
                        :
                     'She has not gone to bed, for there is a light in her room; but she would
                            not answer when I knocked, and the door is locked.'
                    'All of which circumstances are not sufficient to make you as white as a
                            ghost,' said Charles. 'I think even if Aurelia has a headache,
                            you would bear the occurrence with fortitude. My dear child, you do not act so well off the
                            stage as on it. There is something on your mind. People don't upset water at dinner, and
                            refuse all food  except pellets of pinched bread, for
                            nothing. What is it ?'
                    Evelyn sank into a chair, and covered her face with her trembling hands. 
                    'Yes, I thought so,' said Charles, kneeling down by her, and gently
                        withdrawing her hands. 'Come, Evelyn, what is it ?'
                    'I dare not say.' And she turned away her face, and tried to
                        disengage her hands, but Charles held them firmly.
                    ' Is it about what happened last night ?' he asked, in a tone that
                        was kind, but that evidently intended to have an answer.
                    ' Yes.'
                    'And do you know that I am suspected ?'
                    'You, Charles? Never!' she cried, starting up.
                    'Yes, I. Suspected by my own father. So if you know anything, Evelyn—which I
                            see you do—it is your duty to tell us, and to help us in every way you can.'
                    He had let go her hands now, and had risen.
                    
                     ' I don't know anything for certain,' she said, 'but—but we soon shall. Aurelia knows, and she is going to tell Ralph.'
                    'Miss Grant!' I exclaimed. 'She knew nothing at
                            tea-time. She was asking me about it.'
                    'It is since then,' continued Evelyn. ' I went up
                            to her room before dinner to ask her for a fan that I had lent her. She was packing some of
                            her things, and the floor was strewn with packing paper and parcels. She gave me my fan, and
                            was going on putting her things together, talking all the time, when she asked me to hand
                            her a glove-box on the dressing-table. As I did so, my eye fell on a piece of paper lying
                            together with others, and I instantly recognized it as the same that had been wrapped round
                            the diamond crescent when Colonel Middleton first showed us the jewels. I should never have
                            noticed it—for though it was rice paper, it looked just like the other pieces strewn
                            about—if I had not seen two little angular  tears, which I
                            suddenly remembered making in it myself when General Marston asked me not to pull it to
                            pieces, which I suppose I had been absently doing. I made some sort of exclamation of
                            surprise, and Aurelia turned round sharply and asked me what was the matter. As I did not
                            answer, she left her packing and came to the table. She saw in a moment what I was looking
                            at. I had turned as red as fire, and she was quite white. " I did not mean you to see that,"
                            she said at last, quietly taking up the paper. " I meant no one to know until I had shown it
                            to Ralph. Do you know where I found it ?" and she looked hard at me. I
                            could only shake my head. I was too much ashamed of a suspicion I had had to be able to get
                            out a word. " I am very sorry," continued Aurelia, "but I am afraid it will be my duty to
                            tell Ralph, whatever the consequences may be. I have been thinking it over, and I think he
                            ought to know. I am going to show it him to-night after dinner," and she 172 THE DANVERS JEWELS put it in her pocket and then began to cry.
                            I did not know what to say or do, I was so frightened at the thought of what was coming;
                            and, as the dressing-bell rang at that moment, I was just leaving the room when she called
                            me back. 
                    '"I can't come down to dinner," she said. "I hate Ralph to see me with red
                            eyes. Tell him I shall come down afterwards at nine o'clock, and that I want to see him
                            particularly; only don't tell him what it is about, or mention it to any one else. I did not
                            mean anyone to know till he did." 
                    'She began to cry afresh, and I made her lie down and put a shawl over her,
                            and then left her, as I had still to dress, and I knew that Aunt Mary was not coming down. I
                            was late as it was.'
                    ' Is that all ?' said Charles, who had been listening intently.
                    'All,' replied Evelyn. 'We shall soon know the
                            worst now.'
                    'Very soon,' said Charles. ' Ralph may  come in here at any moment. Evelyn and Middleton, will
                            you have the goodness to come with me ?' And he led the way into the hall.
                    We could hear Ralph in the next room, humming over an old Irish melody, with an improvised
                        accompaniment.
                    'Now show me her room!' said Charles, 'and be
                            quick about it.'
                    Evelyn looked at him astonished, and then led the way upstairs, along the picture-gallery to
                        another wing of the house. She stopped at last before a door at the end of a passage, dimly
                        lighted by a lamp at the further end. There was a light under the door, and a bright chink in
                        the keyhole, but though we listened intently we could hear nothing stirring within.
                    'Knock again,' said Charles to Evelyn. 'Louder !' as her hand failed her. 
                    There was no answer. As we listened the light within disappeared.
                    'Bring that lamp from' the end of the 
                            passage,' said Charles to Evelyn, and she brought it.
                    'Hold it there!' he said; 'and you, Middleton,
                            stand aside.'
                    He took a few steps backward, and then flung himself against the door with his whole force. It
                        cracked and groaned, but resisted.
                    'The lock is old. It is bound to go,' he said, panting a little.
                    'Really, Charles,' I remonstrated — 'a lady's
                            private apartment! Miss Derrick, I wonder you allow this.'
                    Charles retreated again, and then made a fresh and even fiercer onslaught on the door. There was
                        a sound of splintering wood and of bursting screws, and in another moment the door flew open
                        inwards, and Charles was precipitated head foremost into the room, his evening pumps flourishing
                        wildly in the air. In an instant he was on his feet again, gasping hard, and had seized the lamp
                        out of Evelyn's hand. Before I had had time to remonstrate on the liberty  that he was taking, we were all three in the room. It was empty !
                    In one corner stood a box half-packed, with various articles of clothing lying by it. On the
                        dressing-table was a whole medley of little feminine knick-knacks, with a candle-stick in the
                        midst, the dead wick still smoking in the socket, and accounting for the disappearance of the
                        light a few minutes before. The fire had gone out, but on a chair by it was laid a little black
                        lace evening-gown, evidently put out to be worn; while over the fender a dainty pair of silk
                        stockings had been hung, and two diminutive black satin shoes were waiting on the hearthrug. The
                        whole aspect of the room spoke of a sudden and precipitate flight.
                     ' Bolted !' said Charles, when he had recovered his breath. ' And so the mystery is out at last! I might have known there was a woman at
                            the bottom of it. Unpremeditated, though,' he continued, looking  round. ' She meant to have gone to-morrow ; but
                            your recognition of that paper frightened her, though she turned it off well to gain time.
                            No fool that. She only had an hour, and she made the most of it, and got off, no doubt,
                            while we were at dinner, by the 8.2 London train, which is the last to-night; and after the
                            telegraph-office was closed, too! She knew nothing could be done till to-morrow. She has
                            more wit than I gave her credit for.'
                    'I distrusted her before, though I had no reason for it, but I never thought
                            she was gone,' said Evelyn, trembling violently, and still looking round the
                        room.
                    'I knew it,' said Charles, 'from the moment I
                            saw the light through the key-hole. A keyhole with a key in it would not have shown half the
                            amount of light through it; and a locked door without a key in it is safe to have been
                            locked from the outside. Had she a maid with her ?' 
                    'No,' replied Evelyn, ' she used to come  to me, next door, when she wanted help—but not often—because I
                            think she knew I did not like her, though I tried not to show it.'
                    'Well, we have seen the last of her, or I am much mistaken,' said
                        Charles. ' And now,' he added, compressing his lips, 'I suppose I must go and tell Ralph.'
                    'Oh, Ralph I Ralph!' gasped Evelyn with a sudden sob; 'and he was so fond of her !'
                    'And so you distrusted her before, Evelyn ? And why did you not mention that
                            fact a little sooner ?'
                    'Without any reason for it? And when Ralph— Oh, I couldn't ! I
                            couldn't !' said the girl, crimsoning.
                    Charles gazed intently at her as she turned away, pressing her hands tightly together, and
                        evidently struggling with some sudden emotion for which there really was no apparent reason. She
                        was overwrought, I suppose; and indeed, the exertion of breaking in the door had been rather too
                             much for Charles too; for now that the excitement was
                        over, his hand shook so much that he had to put down the lamp, and even his voice trembled a
                        little as he said:
                    'I don't think Ralph is very much to be pitied. He has had a narrow
                            escape.' 
                    ' Don't come down again, either of you,' he continued a moment later,
                        in his usual voice. 'I had better go and get it over at once. He will be
                            wondering what has become of us if I wait much longer. Evelyn, good-night. Good-night,
                            Middleton. If it is too early for you to go to bed, you will find a fire in the
                            smoking-room.'
                    I bade Evelyn good-night, and followed Charles down the corridor. He replaced the lamp with a
                        hand that was steady enough now, and went slowly across the picture- gallery. The way to my room
                        led me through it also. Involuntarily I stopped at the head of the great carved staircase which
                        led into the hall, and watched him going down, step by step,
                        with lagging tread. From the morning-room came the distant sound of a piano, and a man's voice
                        singing to it, singing softly as though no Nemesis were approaching; singing slowly as if there
                        were time enough and to spare. But Nemesis had reached the bottom of the staircase; Nemesis with
                        a heavy step was going across the silent hall—was even now opening the door of the morning-room.
                        The door was gently closed again, and then, in the middle of a bar the music stopped.

                
                
                
                    CHAPTER II
                    I PASSED an uneasy night. The wind moaned wearily round the house, at one moment seeming to die
                        away altogether, at another returning with redoubled fury, roar ing down the wide chimney,
                        shaking the whole building. It dropped completely towards dawn, and after hours of fitful
                        slumber I slept heavily. 
                    In the gray of the early morning I was awakened by someone coming into my room, and started up to
                        find Charles standing by my bedside, dressed, and with a candle in his hand. His face was worn
                        and haggard from want of sleep.
                    ' I have come to speak to you before I go, Middleton,' he said, when I was thoroughly awake.
                        'Ralph and I are off by the early  train. Will you tell my
                        father that we may not be able to return till to-morrow- if then; and may I count upon you to
                        keep all you saw and heard secret, till after our return ?'
                    ' Where are you going ?'
                    ' To London. We start in twenty minutes. I don't think it is the least use,
                            but Ralph insists on going, and I cannot let him go alone.'
                    'My dear Charles,' I said (all my anger had vanished at the sight of
                        his worn face); 'I will accompany you.'
                    'Not for worlds !' he replied hastily. ' It
                            would be no good. Indeed, I should not wish it.'
                    But I knew better.
                    'An old head is often of use,' I replied, rapidly getting into my
                        clothes. 'You may count on me, Charles. I shall be ready in ten
                            minutes.'
                    Charles made some pretence at annoyance, but 1 was not to be dissuaded. I knew very well how invaluable the judgment of an elder man of experience could
                        be on critical occasions; and besides, I always make a point of seeing everything I can, on all
                        occasions. In ten minutes I was down in the dining-room, where, beside a spluttering fire, the
                        brothers, both heavily booted and ulstered, were drinking coffee by candlelight. A hastily laid
                        breakfast was on the table, but it had not been touched. The gray morning light was turning the
                        flame of the candles to a rusty yellow, and outside, upon the wide stone sills, the snow lay
                        high against the panes.
                    Ralph was sitting with bent head by the fire, stick and cap in hand, his heavy boot beating the
                        floor impatiently. He looked up as I came in, but did not speak. The ruddy colour in his cheeks
                        was faded, his face was drawn and set. He looked ten years older.
                    'We ought to be off,' he said at last, in a low voice.
                    
                    'No hurry,' replied Charles; 'finish your
                            coffee.'
                    I hastily drank some also, and told Charles that I was coming with them.
                    'No !' said Charles.
                    'Yes!' I replied. 'You are going to London, and
                            so am I. I have decided to curtail my visit by a few days, under the circumstances. I shall
                            travel up with you. My luggage can follow.'
                    As soon as Charles grasped the idea that I was not going to return to Stoke Moreton, his
                        opposition melted away. He even seemed to hail my departure with a certain sense of relief.
                    ' As you like,' he said. ' You can leave at this
                            unearthly hour, if you wish, and travel with us as far as Paddington.'
                    I nodded, and went after my great-coat. Of course I had not the slightest intention of leaving
                        them at Paddington; but I felt that the time had not arrived to say so. 
                    
                    'Here comes the dog-cart,' said Charles, as I returned.
                    Ralph was already on his feet. But the dog-cart, with its great bay horse, could not be brought
                        up to the door. The snow had drifted heavily before the steps, and right up into the archway,
                        and the cart had to go round to the back again before we could get in and start. Charles took
                        the reins, and his brother got up beside him. The groom and I squeezed ourselves into the back
                        seat. I could see that I was only allowed to come on sufferance, and that at the last moment
                        they would have been willing to dispense with my presence. However, I felt that I should never
                        have forgiven myself if I had let them go alone. Charles was not thirty, and Ralph several years
                        younger. An experienced man of fifty to consult in case of need might be of the greatest
                        assistance in an emergency.
                    ' Quicker !' said Ralph; 'we shall miss the
                            train.'
                    
                    'No quicker, if we mean to catch it,' said Charles. ' I allowed ten minutes extra for the snow. We shall do it if we go quietly,
                            but not if I let him go. An upset would clinch the matter.'
                    We drove noiselessly through the great gates with their stone lions on either side, rampant in
                        wreaths of snow, and up the village street, where life was hardly stirring yet.
                    The sun was rising large and red, a ball of dull fire in the heavy sky. It seemed to be rising on
                        a dead world. Before us (only to be seen on my part by craning round) stretched the long white
                        road. At intervals, here and there among the shrouded fields, lay cottages half hidden by a
                        white network of trees. Groups of yellow sheep stood clustered together under hedgerows,
                        motionless in the low mist, and making no sound. A lonely colt, with tail erect, ran beside us
                        on the other side of the hedge as far as his field would allow him, his heavy  hoofs falling noiseless in the snow. The cold was intense.
                    ' There will be a drift at the bottom of Farrow Hill,' said Ralph;
                            'we shall be late for the train.'
                    And, in truth, as we came cautiously down the hill, on turning a corner we beheld a smooth sheet
                        of snow lapping over the top of the hedge on one side, like iced sugar on a cake, and sloping
                        downwards to the ditch on the other side of the road.
                     'Hold on!' cried Charles, as I stood up to look; and in another
                        moment we were pushing our way through the snow, keeping as near the ditch as possible—too near,
                        as it turned out.
                    But it was not to be. A few yards in front of us lay the roade—snowy, but practicable; but we
                        could not reach it. We swayed backwards and forwards; we tilted up and down. Charles whistled,
                        and made divers consolatory and encouraging sounds to the bay horse; but the bay horse began to plunge; he made a side movement; one wheel crunched down
                        through the ice in the ditch, and all was over-at least, all in the cart were. We fell soft, I
                        most providentially alighting on the groom, who was young and inclined to be plump, and thus
                        breaking a fall which to a heavy man of my age might have been serious. Charles and Ralph were
                        up in a moment.
                    ' I thought I could not do it. But it was worth a trial,' said
                        Charles, shaking himself. 'George, look after the horse and cart, and take
                            them straight back. Now, Ralph, we must run for it, if we mean to catch the train.
                            Middleton,' you had better go back in the cart.'
                     And off they set, plunging through the snow without further ceremony. I watched the two dark
                        figures disappearing, aghast with astonishment. They were positively leaving me behind ! In a
                        moment my mind was made up, and leaving the gasping young groom to look after the horse and
                        cart, I set off to run too. It was only a chance, of course,
                        but in this weather the train might be late. It was all the way downhill. I thought I could do
                        it, and I did. My feet were balled with snow; I was hotter than I had been for years ; I was
                        completely out of breath; but when I puffed into the little roadside station, five minutes after
                        the train was due, I could see that it was not yet in, and that Ralph and Charles were waiting
                        on the platform.
                    'My word, Middleton!' said Charles, coming to meet me. 'I thought I had seen the last of you when I left you reclining on George in
                            the drift. I do believe you have got yourself into this state of fever-heat purely to be of
                            use to us two; and I treated you very cavalierly, I am sure. Let bygones be bygones, and let
                            us shake hands while you are in this melting mood.'
                    I could not speak, but we shook hands cordially, and I hurried off to get my ticket.
                    'You can only book to Tarborough,' he called after me, ' where we change, and catch the
                            London express.'
                    The station-master gave me my ticket, and then approached Charles, and touched his cap.
                    'Might any of you gentlemen be going to London, sir ?' he
                        inquired.
                    ' All three of us.'
                    'I don't think you will get on, sir. The news came down this morning
                            that the evening express from Tarborough last night was thrown off the rails by a drift and
                            got knocked about, and I don't expect the line is clear yet. There will be no trains running
                            till later in the day, I am afraid.'
                    'The night express !' said Ralph suddenly. 'Do you
                            mean the 9 train, which you can catch by the 8.2 from here ?'
                    ' Yes, sir.'
                    'She was in it!' said Ralph in a hoarse voice, as the man walked
                        away.
                    'How late the train is!' said Charles. 'Quarter
                            of an hour already. I say, Jervis'  —calling after
                        him—' any particulars about the accident ? Serious ?'
                    'Oh dear no, sir, not to my knowledge. Never heard of anything but
                            that the train had been upset and had stopped the traffic.'
                    'Not many people travelling in such weather at any rate. I dare say there
                            was not a creature who went from here by the last train last night.'
                    'Only two, sir. One of the young gentlemen from the Rectory, and a
                            young lady, who was very, near late, poor thing, and all wet with snow. Ah, there she is, at
                            last!' as the train came in sight; and he went through the ceremony of ringing the
                        bell, although we were the only travellers on the platform.
                    It was only an hour's run to Tarborough, where we were to join the main line.
                    'What are we to do now ?' said Charles, as the chimneys of Tarborough
                        hove in sight and the train slackened. ' Ten to one we shall not be able to
                            get on to London.'
                    
                    'Nor she either!' said Ralph. 'I shall see her ! I
                            shall see her here !'
                    There was an air of excitement about the whole station as we drew up before the platform. Groups
                        of railway officials were clustered together, talking eagerly ; the barmaids were all looking
                        out of the refreshment-room door; policemen were stationed here and there; and outside the iron
                        gates of the station a little crowd of people were waiting in the trodden yellow snow, peering
                        though the bars.
                    We got out, and Charles went up to a respectable-looking man in black, evidently an official of
                        some consequence, and asked what was the matter. The man informed him that a special had been
                        sent down the line with workmen to clear the rails, and that its return with the passengers in
                        the ill-fated express was expected at any moment.
                    'You don't mean to say the wretched passengers have been there all
                            night?' exclaimed Charles.
                    
                    From the man's account it appeared that the travellers had taken refuge in a farm near the scene
                        of the accident, and, the snowstorm continuing very heavily, it had not been thought expedient
                        to send a train down the line to bring them away till after daybreak. 'It
                            has been gone an hour,' he said, looking at the clock; 'and it
                            is hardly nine yet. Considering how late we received notice of the accident—for the news had
                            to travel by night, and on foot for a considerable distance—I don't think there has been
                            much delay.'


                    'Will all the passengers come back by this train ?' asked Ralph.
                    ' Yes, sir.'
                    'We will wait !' said Ralph; and he went and paced up and down the most
                        deserted part of the platform. The man followed him with his eyes.
                    ' Anxious about friends, sirsaid> ?' he asked Charles.
                    'Yes,' I heard Charles say as I went off to warm myself by the
                        waiting-room fire,  keeping a sharp look-out for the arrival
                        of the train. When I came out some time later, wondering if it were ever going to arrive at all,
                        I found Charles and the man in black walking up and down together, evidently in earnest
                        conversation. When I joined them they ceased .talking (I never can imagine why- people generally
                        do when I come up), and the latter said that he would make inquiry at the booking-office, and
                        left us.
                    ' Who is that man ?' I asked. 'How should I know ?' said Charles
                        absently.
                     ' He says he has been a London detective till just lately, but he is an
                            inspector of police now. Well ?' as the man returned.
                    'Booking-clerk can't remember, sir; but the clerk at the telegraph office
                            remembers a young lady leaving a telegram last night, to be sent on first thing this
                            morning.'
                    'Has it been sent yet ?'
                    'Yes, sir ; some time.'
                    ' Where was it sent to ?'
                    
                     'That is against rules, sir. The clerk has no right to give information.
                            Anyhow, it is as good as certain from what you say that the party was in the train, and at
                            all events you will not be kept in doubt much longer;' and he pointed to the
                        long-expected puff of white smoke in the direction in which all eyes had been so anxiously
                        turned. The train came slowly round a broad curve, and crawled into the station. Ralph had come
                        up, and his eyes were fixed intently upon it. The hand he laid on Charles's arm shook a little
                        as he whispered in a hoarse voice: 
                    ' I must speak to her alone before anything is said.'
                    'You shall,' replied Charles; and he moved forward a little, and
                        waited for the passengers to alight. I felt that any chance of escape which lay in eluding those
                        keen light eyes would be small indeed.
                    Then ensued a scene of confusion, a Babel of tongues, as the passengers poured out upon the
                        platform. ' What was the meaning of it all ?' hotly demanded an infuriated little man before he was well out of the
                        carriage. Why had a train been allowed to start if it was to be overturned by a snow-drift ?
                        What had the company been about not to make itself aware of the state of the line ? What did the
                        railway officials mean by, etc., etc.? But he was not going to put up with such scandalous
                        treatment. He should cause an inquiry to be made; he should write to the Times, he should—in short, he behaved like a true Englishman in adverse circumstances, and
                        poured forth abuse like water. Others followed—some angry, some silent, all cold and miserable.
                        A stout woman in black, who had been sent for to a dying child, was weeping aloud; a dazed man
                        with bound-up head and a terrified wife was pounced upon immediately by expectant friends, and
                        borne off with voluble sympathy. One or two people slightly hurt were helped out after the
                        others. The train was emptied at last. Aurelia was not there. Charles went down  the length of the train, looking into each carriage, and then came
                        back, answering Ralph's glance with a shake of the head. The man in black, who seemed to have
                        been watching him, came up.
                    'Have all come back by this train?' Charles asked. 
                    'All, sir, except'—and he hesitated,— 'except
                            a few. The doctor who went has not returned; and the guard says there were some of the
                            passengers badly hurt that he would not allow to be moved from the farm when the train came
                            for them. The engine- driver and one or two others were—'
                    Charles made a sign to him to be silent.
                    'How far is it ?' he asked.
                    'Twenty miles, sir.'
                    'Are the roads practicable ?'
                    'No, sir. At least, they would be very uncertain once you got into the
                            lanes.'
                    'We can walk along the line,' said Ralph. 'That must
                            be clear. Let us start at once.'
                    
                    'Could not the station-master send us down on an engine ?' asked
                        Charles. 'We would pay well for it.'
                    The police-inspector shook his head, but Charles went off to inquire nevertheless, and he
                        followed him. I thought him a very pushing, inquisitive kind of person. I have always had a
                        great dislike to the idle curiosity which is continually prying into the concerns of others.
                        Ralph and I walked up and down, up and down the now deserted platform. I spoke to him once or
                        twice, but he hardly answered; and after a time I gave it up, and we paced in silence.
                    At last Charles returned. His request for an engine had been refused, but a further relay of
                        workmen was being sent down the line in a couple of hours' time, and he had obtained leave for
                        himself and us to go with them. After two long interminable hours of that everlasting pacing we
                        found ourselves in an open truck full of workmen steaming slowly out of the station. At the last
                            moment the man in black jumped in and accompanied us. 
                    The pace may have been great, but to us it seemed exasperatingly slow, and in the open truck the
                        cold was piercing. The workmen, who laughed and talked among themselves, appeared to take no
                        notice of it; but I saw that Charles was shivering, and presently he made his brother light his
                        pipe and began to smoke hard himself.
                    Ralph's pipe, however, went out unheeded in his fingers. He sat quite still, with his back
                        against the side of the truck, his eyes fixed upon the gray horizon. Once he turned suddenly to
                        his brother, and said, as if unable to keep silence on what was in his mind :
                    'What was her object ?'
                    Charles shook his head.
                    'They were hers already,' he went on. 'She would have had them all. If she had
                            had debts, I would have paid them. What could her object have been?' And seem- ingly without expecting reply, he relapsed into silence.
                    We had left the suburbs now, and were passing through a lonely country. Here and there a village
                        of straggling cottages met the eye, clustering round their little church. In places the
                        hedgerows alone marked the lie of the hidden lanes; in others men were digging out the roads
                        through drifts of snow, and carts and horses were struggling painfully along. In one place a
                        little walking funeral was labouring across the fields from a lonely cottage in the direction of
                        the church high on the hill, the bell of which was tolling through the quiet air. The sound
                        reached us as we passed, and seemed to accompany us on our way. I heard the men talking among
                        themselves that there had been no snow-storm like this for thirty years; and as they spoke some
                        of them began shading their eyes, and trying to look in the direction in which we were
                        going.
                    We had now reached a low waste of unen- closed land, with sedge
                        and gorse pricking up everywhere through the snow, and with long lines of pollards marking the
                        bed of a frozen stream. Near the line was a deserted brick-kiln surrounded by long uneven mounds
                        and ridges of ice, with three poplars mounting guard over it. Flights of rooks hung over the
                        barren ground, and wheeled in the air with discordant clamour as we passed-the only living
                        moving things in the utter desolation of the scene. As I looked there was an exclamation from
                        one of the workmen, and the engine began to slacken. We were there at last.
                
                
                
                    CHAPTER III.
                     THE engine and trucks stopped, the men shouldered their tools and tumbled out, and we followed
                        them. A few hundred paces in front of us was a railway bridge, over which a road passed, and
                        under which the rail went at a sharp curve. The snow had drifted heavily against the bridge with
                        its high earth embankment, making manifest at a glance the cause of the disaster.
                    The bridge was crowded with human figures, and on the line below men were working in the drift,
                        amid piles of débris and splintered wood. The wrecked train had all been
                        slightly draped in snow; the engine alone, barely cold, lying black and grim, like some mighty
                        giant, formidable in death. A sheet of glassy ice near it showed how the  boiler had burst. Some of the hindermost carriages were still
                        standing, or had fallen comparatively uninjured; but others seemed to have leaped upon their
                        fellows, and ploughed right through them into the drift. It was well that it began to snow as we
                        reached the spot. There were traces of dismal smears on the white ground, which it would be
                        seemly to hide.
                    Our friend in black went forward and asked a few questions of the man in charge, and presently
                        returned.
                    'The remainder of the passengers are at the farm,' he said, pointing
                        to a house at a little distance; and, without further delay, we began to scramble up the steep
                        embankment, and clamber over the stone wall of the bridge into the road.
                    My mind was full of other things, but I remember still the number of people assembled on the
                        bridge, and how a man was standing up in his donkey-cart to view the scene. It was Saturday, and
                        there were  quantities of village schoolboys sitting astride
                        on the low wall, or perched on adjacent hurdles, evidently enjoying the spectacle, jostling,
                        bawling, eating oranges, and throwing the peel at the engine. Some older people touched their
                        hats sympathetically, and one went and opened a gate for us into a field, through which many
                        feet seemed to have come and gone; but, for the greater number, the event was evidently regarded
                        as an interesting variation in the dull routine of everyday life, and to the schoolboys it was
                        an undoubted treat.
                    Ralph and Charles walked on in front, following the track across the field. It was not
                        particularly heavy walking after what we had had earlier in the day, but Ralph stumbled
                        perpetually, and presently Charles drew his arm through his own, and the two went on together,
                        the police-inspector following with me.
                    In a few minutes we reached the farm, and entered the farmyard, which was the nearest  way to the house. A little knot of calves, entrenched on a mound of
                        straw in the centre of the yard, lowered their heads, and looked askance at us as we came in,
                        and a party of ducks retreated hastily from our path with a chorus of exclamations, while a thin
                        collie dog burst out of a barrel at the back door and made a series of gymnastics at the end of
                        a chain, barking hoarsely, as if he had not spared himself of late.


                    An elderly woman with red arms met us at the door, and, on a whisper from the police-inspector,
                        first shook her head, and then, in answer to a further whisper, nodded at another door, and, a
                        voice calling her from within, hastily disappeared.
                    The inspector opened the door she had indicated, and went in, I with him. Charles, who had grown
                        very grave, hung back with Ralph, who seemed too much dazed to notice anything in heaven above
                        or the earth beneath. The door opened into an outhouse, roughly paved with round stones, where
                            barrels, staves, and divers lumber had been put away.
                        There was straw in the further end of it, out of which a yellow cat raised two gleaming eyes,
                        and then flew up a ladder against the wall, and disappeared among the rafters. In the middle of
                        the floor, lying a little apart, were three figures with sheets over them. Instinctively we felt
                        that we were in the presence of death. I looked back at Charles and Ralph, who were still
                        standing outside in the falling snow. Charles was bareheaded, but Ralph was looking absently in
                        front of him seemingly conscious of nothing. The inspector made me a sign. He had raised one of
                        the sheets, and now withdrew it altogether. My heart seemed to stand still. It was
                            Aurelia!—Aurelia, changed in the last great change of all, but still Aurelia.
                    The fixed artificial colour in the cheek consorted ill with the bloodless pallor of the rest of
                        the face, which was set in a look of surprise and terror. She was altered beyond  what should have been. She looked several years older. But it was
                        still Aurelia. Those little gloved hands, tightly clenched, were the same which she had held to
                        the library fire as we talked the day before; even the dress was the same. Alas ! she had been
                        in too great a hurry to change it before she left, or her thin shoes. Poor little Aurelia ! And
                        then —I don't know how it was, but in another moment Ralph was kneeling by her, bending over
                        her, taking the stiffened hands in his trembling clasp, imploring the deaf ears to hear him,
                        calling wildly to the pale lips, which had done with human speech, to speak to him. I could not
                        bear it, and I turned away and looked out through the open door at the snow falling. The
                        inspector came and stood beside me.
                    In the silence which followed we could hear Charles speaking gently from time to time; and when
                        at last we both turned towards them again, Ralph had flung himself down on an old bench at the
                        further end of  the outhouse, with his back turned towards us,
                        his arms resting on a barrel, and his head bowed down upon them. He neither spoke nor moved.
                    Charles left him and came towards us, and he and the inspector spoke apart for a moment; and then
                        the latter dropped on his knees beside the dead woman, and after looking carefully at a dark
                        stain on one of the wrists, turned back the sleeve. Crushed deep into the round, white arm
                        gleamed something bright. It was an emerald bracelet, which we both knew. Charles cast a hasty
                        glance at Ralph; but he had not moved, and he drew me beside him, so as to interpose our two
                        figures between him and the inspector. The latter quietly turned down the sleeve, and recomposed
                        the arm.
                     'I knew she would have them on her, if she had them at all,' he
                        said, in a low voice. 'We need look no further at present. Not one will be
                            missing. They are all there.'
                    He gazed long and earnestly at the dead face, and then to my
                        horror he suddenly unfastened the little hat. I made an involuntary movement as if to stop him,
                        but Charles laid an iron grip upon me and motioned me to be still. The stealthy hand quietly
                        pushed back the fair curls upon the forehead, and in another moment they fell still further
                        back, showing a few short locks of dark hair beneath them, which so completely altered the dead
                        face that I could hardly recognise it as belonging to the same person. The inspector raised his
                        head and looked significantly at Charles. Then he quietly drew forward the yellow hair over the
                        forehead again, replaced the hat, and rose to his feet. Charles and I glanced apprehensively at
                        Ralph, but he had not stirred. As we looked, a hurried step came across the yard, a hand raised
                        the latch of the door, and someone entered abruptly. It was Carr. For one moment he stood in the
                        doorway, for one moment his eyes rested, horror-struck, on the dead woman, then  darted at us, from us to the inspector, who was coolly watching him,
                        and—he was gone! gone as suddenly as he had come, gone swiftly out again into the falling snow,
                        followed by the wild barking of the dog.
                    Charles, who had had his back to the door, turned in time to see him, and he made a rush for the
                        door, but the inspector flung himself in his way and held him forcibly.
                    'Let me go! Let me get at him!' panted Charles, struggling
                        furiously.
                    'I shall do no such thing, sir. It can do no good, and might do harm. He is
                            armed and you are not; and he would not be overscrupulous if he were pushed. Besides, what
                            can you accuse him of? Intent to rob? For he did not do it. If you have lost anything,
                            remember you have found it again. If you caught him a hundred times, you have no hold on
                            him. I know him of old.'
                    'You !' exclaimed Charles.
                    'Yes; I have known him by sight long enough. He is not a new hand by any
                                means—nor she either, as to that, poor
                        thing.'
                    'But what on earth brought him here?'
                    'He was waiting for news of her in London most likely, and he knew she
                            would have the jewels on her, and came down when he got wind of the accident.'
                    'Knew she would have the jewels! Then do you mean to say there was collusion
                            between the two ?'
                    The inspector glanced furtively at Ralph, but he had never stirred or raised his head since he
                        had lain it down on his clenched hands.
                    'They are both well known to the police,' he said at last, ' and I think it
                            probable there was collusion between them, considering they were man and
                                wife!'

                

                
                
                    CONCLUSION.

                    I AM told that I ought to write something in the way of a conclusion to this account of the
                        Danvers Jewels, as if the end of the last chapter were not conclusion enough. Charles, who has
                        just read it, says especially that his character requires what he calls 'an elegant finish,' and
                        suggests that a slight indication of a young and lovely heiress in connection with himself would
                        give pleasure to the thoughtful reader. But I do not mean at the last moment to depart from the
                        exact -truth and dabble in fiction just to make a suitable conclusion. If I must write something
                        more, I must beg that it will be kept in mind that if further details concerning the robbery are
                        now added against my own judgment, they will rest on Charles's authority, not mine, as anything I afterwards heard was only through Charles,
                        whose information I never consider reliable in the least degree.
                    ******
                    It was not till three months later that I saw him again, on a wet April afternoon. I was still
                        living in London, with Jane, when he came to see me, having just returned from a long tour
                        abroad with Ralph.
                    Sir George, he said, was quite well again, but the coolness between himself and his father had
                        dropped almost to freezing-point since it had come to light that he had been innocent after all.
                        His father could not forgive his son for putting him in the wrong.
                    'I seldom disappoint him in matters of this kind,' he said. 'Indeed, I may
                            say I have, as a rule, surpassed his expectations, and I must be careful never to fall short
                            of them in this way again. But ah! Miss Middleton, I am sure you will agree with me how
                            difficult it is to preserve an even course without relaxing a little at times.'
                    
                    'My dear Mr. Charles,' said Jane, beaming at him over her knitting, but
                        not quite taking him in the manner he intended, 'you are young yet, but don't
                            be down-hearted. I am sure by your face that as you grow older these deviations, which you
                            so properly regret, will grow fewer and fewer, until, as life goes on, they will gradually
                            cease altogether.'
                    ' I consider it not improbable myself,' said Charles, with a faint
                        smile, and he changed the conversation. I really cannot put down here all that he proceeded to
                        say, in the most cold-blooded manner, concerning Carr and Aurelia, or, as he would call them, Mr. and Mrs. Brown, alias Sinclair, alias Tibbits. I for one don't
                        believe a word of it; and I don't see how he could have found it all out, as he said he had,
                        through the police, and people of that kind. I don't consider it is at all respectable
                        consorting with the police in that way; but then Charles never was respectable, as I told Jane
                        after he left, arousing excited feelings on her part which
                        made me regret having mentioned it.
                    According to him, Carr, who had never been seen or heard of since the day after the accident, was
                        a professional thief who had probably gone to—, in India, with the express design of obtaining
                        possession of Sir John's jewels, which had, till near the time of his death, been safely stowed
                        away in a bank in Calcutta. He and his wife usually worked together, but on this occasion she
                        had, by means of her engaging manners and youthful appearance, struck up an acquaintance abroad
                        with Lady Mary Cunningham, who, it will be remembered, had jewels of considerable value, with a
                        view to those jewels. Ralph she had used as her tool, and engaged herself to him in the
                        expectation that on her return to England she might, by means of her intimacy with the family,
                        have an opportunity of taking them, Lady Mary having left them, while abroad, with her banker in
                        London. The opportunity came while she was at Stoke Moreton,
                        but in the meanwhile Sir John's priceless legacy had arrived, having eluded her husband's
                        vigilance. (That certainly was true. The jewels were safe enough as long as I had anything to do
                        with them.) Her husband, who followed them, saw that he was suspected, and threw the game into
                        her hands, devoting himself entirely to putting his own innocence beyond a doubt, in which, with
                        Ralph's assistance, he succeeded.
                    'I see now,' continued Charles, 'why she spilt
                            her tea when Carr arrived. She was taken by surprise on seeing him enter the room, having
                            had probably no idea that he was the friend whom you had telegraphed for. I suspect, too,
                            that same evening, after the ball, when she and Carr went together to find the bag, it was
                            to have a last word to enable them to play into each other's hands, being aware, if I
                            remember rightly, that father had gone to bed in company with the key of the safe, and that
                            consequently the jewels might be left within easier reach than s1'5  usual. No doubt she weighed the matter in her own mind, and
                            decided to give up all thought of Lady Mary's jewels, and to secure those which were ten
                            times their value. She could not have taken both without drawing suspicion upon herself.
                            Like a wise woman, she left the smaller, and went in for the larger prize; a less clever one
                            would have tried for both and have failed. She failed, it is true, by an oversight. She
                            could never have noticed that the piece of paper wrapped round the crescent was peculiar in
                            any way, or she would not have left it on the table among the others. She turned it off well
                            when Evelyn recognised it, and made the most of her time. She was within an ace of success,
                            but fate was against her. And Carr lost no time either, for that matter ; for I have since
                            found out that the telegram she sent was to Birmingham, where he was no doubt hiding,
                            bidding him meet her in London earlier than had been arranged. Of course he set off for the
                            scene of the accident directly he heard of it,  having
                            received no further communication from her. We only arrived ten minutes before him. For my
                            part, I admired her more than I ever did before, when the truth about her came out. I
                            considered her to be a pink and white nonentity without an idea beyond a neat adjustment of
                            pearl-powder, and then found that she possessed brains enough to outwit two minds of no mean
                            calibre, namely, yours, Middleton, and my own. Evelyn was the only person who had the
                            slightest suspicion of her, and that hardly amounted to more than an instinct, for she owned
                            that she had no reason to show for it.'
                    'I wonder Lady Mary was so completely taken in by her to start with,'
                        I said.
                    ' I don't,' replied Charles. 'I have even heard
                            of elderly men being taken in by young ones. Besides, suspicious people are always liable to
                            distrust their own nearest relatives, especially their prepossessing nephews, and then lay
                            themselves open to be taken in by entire strangers. She wanted to get Ralph  married, and she took a fancy to this girl, who was laying
                            herself out to be taken a fancy to. In short, she trusted to her own judgment, and it failed
                            her, as usual. I wrote very kindly to her from abroad, telling her how sincerely I
                            sympathized with her in her distress at finding how entirely her judgment had been at fault,
                            how lamentably she had been deceived from first to last, and how much trouble she had been
                            the innocent means of bringing on the family. I have had no reply. Dear Aunt Mary! That
                            reminds me that she is in London now; and I think a call from me, and a personal expression
                            of sympathy, might give her pleasure.' And he rose to take his leave.
                    I had let Charles go without contradicting a word he had said, because, unfortunately, I was not
                        in a position to do so. As I have said before, I am not given to suspecting a friend, even
                        though appearances may be against him; and I still believed in Carr's innocence, though 1 must own that I was sorry that he never answered
                        any of the numerous letters I wrote to him, or ever came to see me in London, as I had
                        particularly asked him to do. Of course, I did not believe that he was married to Aurelia, for
                        it was only on the word of a stranger and a police-inspector, while I knew from his own lips
                        that he was engaged to a countrywoman of his own. However, be that how it may, my own rooted
                        conviction at the time, which has remained unshaken ever since, is that in some way he became
                        aware that he was unjustly suspected, and being, like all Americans, of a sensitive nature, he
                        retired to his native land. Anyhow, I have never seen or heard anything of him since. I am aware
                        that Jane holds a different opinion, but then Charles had prejudiced her against him; so much
                        so, that it has ended by becoming a subject on which we do not converse together.
                    ******
                    
                    I saw Charles again a few months later, on a sultry night in July. I was leaving town the next
                        day to be present at Ralph's wedding, and Jane and I were talking it over towards ten o'clock,
                        the first cool time in the day, when he walked in. He looked pale and jaded as he sat down
                        wearily by us at the open window and stroked the cat, which was taking the air on the sill. He
                        said that he felt the heat, and he certainly looked very much knocked up. I do not feel heat
                        myself, I am glad to say.
                    'I am going abroad to-morrow,' he said, after a few remarks on other
                        subjects. ' It is not merely a question of pleasure, though I shall be glad
                            to be out of London;' but I have of late become an object of such increasing interest to
                            those who possess my autograph, that I have decided on taking change of air for a
                            time.'
                    'Do you mean to say you are not going down to Stoke Moreton for Ralph's
                            wedding ?' I exclaimed. 'I thought we should have travelled together, as we once did six months ago.'
                    'I can't go,' said Charles, almost sharply 'I
                            have told Ralph so.'
                    'I am sure he will be very much disappointed, and Evelyn, too ; and the
                            wedding being from her uncle's house, as she has no home of her own, will make your absence
                            all the more marked.'
                    'It must be marked, then; but the young people will
                            survive it, and Aunt Mary will be thankful. She has not spoken to me since I made that
                            little call upon her in the spring. When I pass her in the Row she looks the other
                            way.'
                    'I am glad Ralph has consoled himself,' I said. 'A good and charming woman like Evelyn, and a nice steady fellow like Ralph, are bound to be
                            happy together.'
                    'Yes,' said Charles, ' I suppose they are. She
                            deserves to be happy. She always liked Ralph, and he is a good fellow. The
                            model young men make all the running nowadays. In novels
                            the good woman always marries the scapegrace, but it does not seem to be the case in real
                            life.'
                    'Anyhow, not in this instance,' I remarked cheerfully.
                    'No, not in this instance, as you so justly observe,' he replied,
                        with a passing gleam of amusement in his restless tired eyes. 'And
                            now,' producing a small packet, 'as I am not going myself, I
                            want to give my wedding present to the bride into your charge. Perhaps you will take it down
                            to-morrow, and give it into her own hands, with my best wishes.'
                    'Might we see it first ?' said Jane, with all a woman's curiosity,
                        evidently scenting a jewel-case from afar.
                    Charles unwrapped a small morocco case, and, touching a spring, showed the diamond crescent,
                        beautifully re-set and polished, blazing on its red satin couch.
                    'Ralph said I should have it, and he sent it me some time since,' he
                        said, turning it in  his hand; ' but it
                            seems a pity to fritter it away in paying bills; and,' in a lower tone, ' I should like to give it to Evelyn. I hear she has refused to wear any of Sir
                            John's jewels on her wedding-day, but perhaps—if you were to ask her—she and I are old
                            friends—she might make an exception in favour of the crescent.'
                    And she did.

                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    

                    THE END.

                    BILLING AND SONS, LTD., PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.
                
            
        
        
    
