
     ----CITATION----
        Corelli, Marie (1855-1924). A Romance of Two Worlds, Volume 1. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 314 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (18-February-1999).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7147
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    A Romance of Two Worlds. 
                    A Novel.
                
                BY MARIE CORELLI.
                IN TWO VOLUMES.
                VOL. I.
                
                    LONDON: 
                    RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON, Publishers in Ordinary to Her Majesty the
                        Queen.
                
                1886.
                [All Rights Reserved.]
            
            
                
                Dedication
                TO ONE WHO KNOWS.
            
            
                
                CONTENTS OF VOL. I.
                
                    PROLOGUE 1
                    I. AN ARTIST'S STUDIO 9
                    II. THE MYSTERIOUS POTION 29
                    III. THREE VISIONS 53
                    IV. A DANCE AND A PROMISE 83
                    V. CELLINI'S STORY 107
                    VI. THE HÔTEL MARS AND ITS OWNER 146
                    VII. ZARA AND PRINCE IVAN 177
                    VIII. A SYMPHONY IN THE AIR 227
                    IX. AN ELECTRIC SHOCK 274
                
            
        
        
            
            A ROMANCE OF TWO WORLDS.
            
                PROLOGUE.
                WE live in an age of universal inquiry, ergo of universal scepticism. The prophecies of the
                    poet, the dreams of the philosopher and scientist, are being daily
                    realized—things formerly considered mere fairy-tales have become facts—yet, in
                    spite of the marvels of learning and science that are hourly accomplished among
                    us, the attitude of mankind is one of disbelief. “There is no God!” cries one
                    theorist; “or if there be one, I can obtain no proof of His 
                        exist-
                        existence
                     ence!” “There is no Creator!” exclaims
                    another. “The Universe is simply a rushing together of atoms.” “There can be no
                    Immortality,” asserts a third. “We are but dust, and to dust we shall return.”
                    “What is called by idealists the SOUL,” argues another, “is simply the vital
                    principle composed of heat and air, which escapes from the body at death, and
                    mingles again with its native element. A candle when lit emits flame; blow out
                    the light, the flame vanishes—where? Would it not be madness to assert the flame
                    immortal? Yet the soul, or, vital principle of human existence, is no more than
                    the flame of a candle.”
                If you propound to these theorists the eternal question WHY?—why is the world in
                    existence?—why is there a universe? why do we live? why do we think and plan?
                    why do we perish at the last?—their grandiose reply is, “Because of the Law of
                    Universal Necessity.” They cannot explain this
                    mysterious Law to themselves, nor can they probe deep enough to find the answer
                    to a still more tremendous WHY—namely, Why is there a Law of
                    Universal Necessity?—but they are satisfied with the result of their reasonings,
                    if not wholly, yet in part, and seldom try to search beyond that great vague
                    vast Necessity, lest their finite brains should reel into madness worse than
                    death. Recognising, therefore, that in this cultivated age a wall of scepticism
                    and cynicism is gradually being built up by intellectual thinkers of every
                    nation against all that treats of the Supernatural and Unseen, I am aware that
                    my narration of the events I have recently experienced will be read with
                    incredulity. At a time when the great empire of the Christian Religion is being
                    assailed or politely ignored by governments and public speakers and teachers, I
                    realize to the fullest extent how daring is any attempt to prove, even by a plain history of strange
                    occurrences happening to one's self, the actual existence of the Supernatural
                    around us; and the absolute certainty of a future state of being, after the
                    passage through that brief soul-torpor in which the body perishes, known to us
                    as Death.
                In the present narration, which I have purposely called a “romance,” I do not
                    expect to be believed, as I can only relate what I myself have experienced. I
                    know that men and women of to-day must have proofs, or what they are willing to
                    accept as proofs, before they will credit anything that purports to be of a
                    spiritual tendency;—something startling—some miracle of a stupendous nature,
                    such as according to prophecy they are all unfit to receive. Few will admit the
                    subtle influence and incontestible, though mysterious, authority exercised upon
                    their lives by higher intelligences than their own—intelligences unseen,
                    unknown, but felt. Yes!
                        felt by the most careless, the most cynical; in the
                    uncomfortable prescience of danger, the inner foreboding of guilt—the moral and
                    mental torture endured by those who fight a protracted battle to gain the hardly
                    won victory in themselves of right over wrong—in the thousand and one sudden
                    appeals made without warning to that compass of a man's life, Conscience—and in
                    those brilliant and startling impulses of generosity, bravery, and
                    self-sacrifice which carry us on, heedless of consequences, to the performance
                    of great and noble deeds, whose fame makes the whole world one resounding echo
                    of glory—deeds that we wonder at ourselves even in the performance of them—acts
                    of heroism in which mere life goes for nothing, and the Soul for a
                    brief space is pre-eminent, obeying blindly the guiding influence of a
                        something akin to itself, yet higher in the realms
                    of Thought. There are no proofs as to why such things
                        should be; but that they are,
                    is indubitable. The miracles of to-day are silent ones, and are worked in the
                    heart and mind of man alone. Unbelief is nearly supreme in the world to-day.
                    Were an angel to descend from heaven in the middle of Trafalgar Square, the
                    crowd would think he had got himself up on pulleys and wires, and would try to
                    discover his apparatus. Were he, in wrath, to cast destruction upon them, and
                    with fire blazing from his wings, slay a thousand of them with the mere shaking
                    of a pinion, those who were left alive would either say that a tremendous
                    dynamite explosion had occurred, or that Trafalgar Square was built on an
                    extinct volcano which had suddenly broken out into frightful activity. Anything
                    rather than believe in angels—the nineteenth century protests against the
                    possibility of their existence. It sees no miracles—it pooh-poohs the very
                    enthusiasm that might work them.
                
                “Give a positive sign,” it says; “prove clearly that what you say is true, and I,
                    in spite of my Progress and Atom Theory, will believe.” The answer to such a
                    request was spoken eighteen hundred years and more ago. “A faithless and
                    perverse generation asketh for a sign, and no sign shall be given unto
                    them.”
                Were I now to assert that a sign had been given to me—to me, as one
                    out of the thousands who demand it—such daring assurance on my part would meet
                    with the most strenuous opposition from all who peruse the following pages; each
                    person who reads having his own ideas on all subjects, and naturally considering
                    them to be the best if not the only ideas worth anything. Therefore
                    I wish it to be plainly understood that in this book I personally advocate no
                    theory of either religion or philosophy; nor do I hold myself answerable for the
                    opinions expressed by any of my characters. My
                    aim throughout is to let facts speak for themselves. If they seem strange,
                    unreal, even impossible, I can only say that it is open to others to follow, if
                    so inclined, the same course which I pursued, and which obtained for me the
                    remarkable experience I am about to relate.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER I.
                AN ARTIST'S STUDIO.
                IN the winter of 188-, I was afflicted by a series of
                    nervous ailments, brought on by over-work and over-worry. Chief among these was
                    a protracted and terrible insomnia,
                    accompanied by the utmost depression of spirits and anxiety of mind. I became
                    filled with the gloomiest anticipations of evil; and my system was strung up by
                    slow degrees to such a high tension of physical and mental excitement, that the
                    quietest and most soothing of friendly voices had no other effect upon me than
                    to jar and irritate. Work was impossible;
                    music, my one passion, intolerable; books became wearisome to my sight; and even
                    a short walk in the open air brought with it such lassitude and exhaustion, that
                    I soon grew to dislike the very thought of moving out of doors. In such a
                    condition of health, medical aid became necessary; and a skilful and amiable
                    physician, Dr. R—, of great repute in nervous ailments, attended me for many
                    weeks, with but slight success. He was not to blame, poor man, for his failure
                    to effect a cure. He had only one way of treatment, and he applied it to all his
                    patients with more or less happy results. Some died, some recovered; it was a
                    lottery on which my medical friend staked his reputation, and won. The patients
                    who died were never heard of more—those who recovered sang the praises of their
                    physician everywhere, and sent him gifts of silver plate and hampers of wine, to
                    testify their gratitude. His popularity was
                    very great; his skill considered marvelous; and his inability to do
                        me any good arose, I must perforce imagine, out of some defect
                    or hidden obstinacy in my constitution, which was to him a new experience, and
                    for which he was unprepared. Poor Dr. R—! How many bottles of your tastily
                    prepared and expensive medicines have I not swallowed, in blind confidence and
                    blinder ignorance of the offences I thus committed against all the principles of
                    that Nature within me, which if left to itself, always heroically struggles to
                    recover its own proper balance and effect its own cure; but which, if subjected
                    to the experimental tests of various poisons or drugs, often loses strength in
                    the unnatural contest and sinks exhausted, perhaps never to rise with actual
                    vigour again. Baffled in his attempts to remedy my ailments, Dr. R— at last
                    resorted to the usual plan adopted by all physicians when their medicines have no power. He recommended change of air
                    and scene, and urged my leaving London, then dark with the fogs of a dreary
                    winter, for the gaiety and sunshine and roses of the Riviera. The idea was not
                    unpleasant to me, and I determined to take the advice proffered. Hearing of my
                    intention, some American friends of mine, Colonel Everard and his charming young
                    wife, decided to accompany me, sharing with me the expenses of the journey and
                    hotel accommodation. We left London all together on a damp foggy evening, when
                    the cold was so intense that it seemed to bite the flesh like the sharp teeth of
                    an animal, and after two days' rapid journey, during which I felt my spirits
                    gradually rising, and my gloomy forebodings vanishing slowly one by one, we
                    arrived at Cannes, and put up at the Hôtel de L—. It was a lovely place, and
                    most beautifully situated; the garden was a perfect wilderness of roses in
                        full bloom, and an avenue of orange-trees
                    beginning to flower cast a delicate fragrance on the warm delicious air. Mrs.
                    Everard was delighted.
                “If you do not recover your health here,” she said half laughingly to me on the
                    second morning, after our arrival, “I am afraid your case is hopeless. What
                    sunshine! What a balmy wind! It is enough to make a cripple cast away his
                    crutches and forget he was ever lame. Don't you think so?”
                I smiled in answer, but inwardly I sighed. Beautiful as the scenery, the air, and
                    the general surroundings were, I could not disguise from myself that the
                    temporary exhilaration of my feelings, caused by the novelty and excitement of
                    my journey to Cannes, was slowly but surely passing away. The terrible apathy,
                    against which I had fought for so many months, was again creeping over me with
                    its cruel and resistless force. I did my best to struggle against it; I walked, I rode, I laughed and chatted
                    with Mrs. Everard and her husband, and forced myself into sociability with some
                    of the visitors at the hotel, who were disposed to show us friendly attention. I
                    summoned all my stock of will-power to beat back the insidious physical and
                    mental misery that threatened to sap the very spring of my life; and in some of
                    these efforts I partially succeeded. But it was at night that the terrors of my
                    condition manifested themselves. Then sleep forsook my eyes; a dull throbbing
                    weight of pain encircled my head like a crown of thorns; nervous terrors shook
                    me from head to foot; fragments of my own musical compositions hummed in my ears
                    with wearying persistence—fragments that always left me in a state of distressed
                    conjecture; for I never could remember how they ended, and I puzzled myself
                    vainly over crotchets and quavers that never would consent to arrange themselves
                        in any sort of finale. So the days went on; for Colonel Everard and his wife,
                    those days were full of merriment, sight-seeing, and enjoyment. For me, though
                    outwardly I appeared to share in the universal gaiety, they were laden with
                    increasing despair and wretchedness; for I began to lose hope of ever recovering
                    my once buoyant health and strength—and, what was even worse, I seemed to have
                    utterly parted with all working ability. I was young, and up to within a few
                    months, life had stretched brightly before me, with the prospect of a brilliant
                    career. And now what was I? A wretched invalid—a burden to myself and to
                    others—a broken spar flung with other fragments of shipwrecked lives on the
                    great ocean of Time, there to be whirled away and forgotten. But a rescue was
                    approaching; a rescue sudden and marvellous, of which, in my wildest fancies, I
                    had never dreamed.
                Staying in the same hotel with us was a young
                    Italian artist, Raffaello Cellini by name. His pictures were beginning to
                    attract a great deal of notice, both in Paris and Rome: not only for their
                    faultless drawing, but for their wonderfully exquisite colouring. So deep and
                    warm and rich were the hues he transferred to his canvases, that others of his
                    art, less fortunate in the management of the palette, declared he must have
                    invented some foreign compound whereby he was enabled to deepen and brighten his
                    colours for the time being; but that the effect was only temporary, and that his
                    pictures, exposed to the air for some eight or ten years, would fade away
                    rapidly, leaving only the traces of an indistinct blur. Others, more generous,
                    congratulated him on having discovered the secrets of the old masters. In short,
                    he was admired, condemned, envied, and flattered, all in a breath; while he
                    himself, being of a singularly serene and unruffled disposition, worked away incessantly, caring little or nothing for the
                    world's praise or blame.
                Cellini had a pretty suite of rooms in the Hôtel de L—, and my friends Colonel
                    and Mrs. Everard fraternized with him very warmly. He was by no means slow to
                    respond to their overtures of friendship, and so it happened that his studio
                    became a sort of lounge for us, where we would meet to have tea, to chat, to
                    look at the pictures, or to discuss our plans for future enjoyment. These visits
                    to Cellini's studio, strange to say, had a remarkably soothing and calming
                    effect upon my suffering nerves. The lofty and elegant room, furnished with that
                    “admired disorder” and mixed luxuriousness peculiar to artists, with its heavily
                    drooping curtains, its glimpses of white marble busts and broken columns, its
                    flash and fragrance of flowers that bloomed in a tiny conservatory opening out
                    from the studio and leading to the garden, where a fountain bubbled 
                        melodi-
                        melodiously
                     ously—all this pleased me and gave me
                    a curious, yet most welcome, sense of absolute rest. Cellini himself had a
                    fascination for me, for exactly the same reason. As an example of this, I
                    remember escaping from Mrs. Everard on one occasion, and hurrying to the most
                    secluded part of the garden, in order to walk up and down alone in an endeavour
                    to calm an attack of nervous agitation which had suddenly seized me. While thus
                    pacing about in feverish restlessness, I saw Cellini approaching, his head bent
                    as if in thought, and his hands clasped behind his back. As he drew near me, he
                    raised his eyes—they were clear and darkly brilliant—he regarded me steadfastly
                    with a kindly smile. Then lifting his hat with the graceful reverence peculiar
                    to an Italian, he passed on, saying no word. But the effect of his momentary
                    presence upon me was remarkable—it was electric. I was no longer
                    agitated. Calmed, soothed, and almost happy, I
                    returned to Mrs. Everard, and entered into her plans for the day with so much
                    alacrity that she was surprised and delighted.
                “If you go on like this,” she said, “you will be perfectly well in a month.”
                I was utterly unable to account for the remedial influence Raffaello Cellini's
                    presence had upon me; but such as it was I could not but be grateful for the
                    respite it gave me from nervous suffering, and my now daily visits to the
                    artist's studio were a pleasure and a privilege not to be foregone. Moreover, I
                    was never tired of looking at his pictures. His subjects were all original, and
                    some of them were very weird and fantastic. One large picture particularly
                    attracted me. It was entitled “Lords of our Life and Death.” Surrounded by
                    rolling masses of clouds, some silver-crested, some shot through with red flame,
                    was depicted the World, as a globe half in light, half in shade. Poised above it was a great Angel, upon whose calm and
                    noble face rested a mingled expression of deep sorrow, yearning pity, and
                    infinite regret. Tears seemed to glitter on the drooping lashes of this sweet
                    yet stern Spirit; and in his strong right hand he held a drawn sword—the sword
                    of destruction—pointed for ever downward—to the fated globe at his feet. Beneath
                    this Angel and the world he dominated was utter darkness—utter illimitable
                    darkness. But above him the clouds were torn asunder, and through a transparent
                    veil of light golden mist, a face of surpassing beauty was seen—a face on which
                    youth, health, hope, love, and ecstatic joy all shone with ineffable radiance.
                    It was the personification of Life—not Life as we know it, brief and full of
                    care—but Life Immortal and Love Triumphant. Often and often I found myself
                    standing before this masterpiece of Cellini's genius, gazing at it, not only
                    with admiration, but with a sense of actual
                    comfort. One afternoon, while resting in my favourite low chair opposite the
                    picture, I roused myself from a reverie, and turning to the artist, who was
                    showing some water-colour sketches to Mrs. Everard, I said abruptly:
                “Did you imagine that face of the Angel of Life, Signor Cellini, or had you a
                    model to copy from?”
                He looked at me and smiled.
                “It is a moderately good portrait of an existing original,” he said.
                “A woman's face then, I suppose? How very beautiful she must be!”
                “Actual Beauty is sexless,” he replied, and was silent. The expression of his
                    face had become abstracted and dreamy, and he turned over the sketches for Mrs.
                    Everard with an air which showed his thoughts to be far away from his
                    occupation.
                “And the Death Angel?” I went on. “Had you a model for that also?”
                
                This time a look of relief, almost of gladness, passed over his features.
                “No, indeed,” he answered with ready frankness; “that is entirely my own
                    creation.”
                I was about to compliment him on the grandeur and force of his poetical fancy,
                    when he stopped me by a slight gesture of his hand.
                “If you really admire the picture,” he said, “pray do not say so. If it is in
                    truth a work of art, let it speak to you as art only, and spare the poor workman
                    who has called it into existence the shame of having to confess that it is not
                    above human praise. The only true criticism of high art is silence—silence as
                    grand as heaven itself.”
                He spoke with energy, and his dark eyes flashed. Amy (Mrs. Everard) looked at him
                    curiously.
                “Say now!” she exclaimed, with a ringing laugh. “Aren't you a little bit
                    eccentric, signor? You talk like a long- haired
                    prophet! I never met an artist before who couldn't stand praise; it is generally
                    a matter of wonder to me to notice how much of that intoxicating sweet they can
                    swallow without reeling. But you're an exception, I must admit. I congratulate
                    you!”
                Cellini bowed gaily in response to the half-friendly, half-mocking curtsey she
                    gave him, and, turning to me again, said:
                “I have a favour to ask of you, mademoiselle. Will you sit to me for your
                    portrait?”
                “I!” I exclaimed, with astonishment. “Signor Cellini, I cannot imagine why you
                    should wish so to waste your valuable time. There is nothing in my poor
                    physiognomy worthy of your briefest attention.”
                “You must pardon me, mademoiselle,” he replied gravely, “if I presume to differ
                    from you. I am exceedingly anxious to transfer your features to my canvas. I am aware that you are not in strong health,
                    and that your face has not that roundness and colour formerly habitual to it.
                    But I am not an admirer of the milk-maid type of beauty. Everywhere I seek for
                    intelligence, for thought, for inward refinement—in short, mademoiselle, you
                    have the face of one whom the inner soul consumes, and, as such, may I plead
                    again with you to give me a little of your spare time? You will not regret
                        it, I assure you.”
                These last words were uttered in a lower tone and with singular impressiveness. I
                    rose from my seat and looked at him steadily; he returned me glance for glance.
                    A strange thrill ran through me, followed by that inexplicable sensation of
                    absolute calm that I had before experienced. I smiled—I could not help
                    smiling.
                “I will come to-morrow,” I said.
                “A thousand thanks, mademoiselle! Can you be here at noon?”
                
                I looked inquiringly at Amy, who clapped her hands with delighted enthusiasm.
                “Of course! Any time you like, signor. We will arrange our excursions so that
                    they shall not interfere with the sittings. It will be most interesting to watch
                    the picture growing day by day. What will you call it, signor? By some fancy
                    title?”
                “It will depend on its appearance when completed,” he replied, as he threw open
                    the doors of the studio and bowed us out with his usual ceremonious
                    politeness.
                “Au revoir, madame! À demain, mademoiselle!” and the violet-velvet curtains of
                    the potière fell softly behind us as we made
                    our exit.
                “Is there not something strange about that young man?” said Mrs. Everard, as we
                    walked through the long gallery of the Hôtel de L— back to our own rooms.
                    “Something fiendish or angelic, or a little of both qualities mixed up?”
                
                “I think he is what people term peculiar, when they fail to
                    understand the poetical vagaries of genius,” I replied. “He is certainly very
                    uncommon.”
                “Well!” continued my friend meditatively, as she contemplated her pretty mignonne
                    face and graceful figure in a long mirror placed attractively in a corner of the
                    hall through which we were passing; “all I can say is that I wouldn't let him
                    paint my portrait if he were to ask ever so! I should be scared to
                    death. I wonder you. being so nervous, were not afraid of him.”
                “I thought you liked him,” I said.
                “So I do. So does my husband. He's awfully handsome and clever, and all that—but
                    his conversation! There now, my dear, you must own he is sightly
                        queer. Why, who but a lunatic would say that the only criticism
                    of art is silence? Isn't that utter rubbish?”
                
                “The only true criticism,” I corrected her gently.
                “Well, it's all the same. How can there be any criticism at all in silence?
                    According to his idea, when we admire anything very much we ought to go round
                    with long faces and gags on our mouths. Oscar Wilde himself was never so
                    ridiculous! And what was that dreadful thing he said to you?”
                “I don't quite understand you,” I answered; “I cannot remember his saying
                    anything dreadful.”
                “Oh, I have it now,” continued Amy with rapidity; “it was awful! He said you had
                    the face of one whom the soul consumes. You know that was most
                    horribly mystical. And when he said it be looked—ghastly! What did he mean by
                    it, I wonder?”
                I made no answer; but I thought I knew. I changed the conversation as soon as
                    possible, and my volatile American friend was soon absorbed in a discussion on dress and jewellery. That night was a
                    blessed one for me; I was free from all suffering, and slept as calmly as a
                    child, while in my dreams the face of Cellini's “Angel of Life” smiled at me,
                    and seemed to suggest peace.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER II.
                THE MYSTERIOUS POTION.
                THE next day, punctually at noon, according to my
                    promise, I entered the studio. I was alone, for Amy after some qualms of
                    conscience respecting chaperonage, propriety, and Mrs. Grundy, had yielded to my
                    entreaties and gone for a drive with some friends. In spite of the fears she
                    began to entertain concerning the Mephistophelian character of Raffaello
                    Cellini, there was one thing of which both she and I felt morally certain:
                    namely, that no truer or more honourable gentleman than he ever walked on the earth. Under his protection the
                    loveliest and loneliest woman that ever lived would have been perfectly safe—as
                    safe as though she were shut up, like the princes in the fairy-tale, in a brazen
                    tower, of which only an undiscoverable serpent possessed the key. When I
                    arrived, the rooms were deserted save for the presence of a magnificent
                    Newfoundland dog, who, as I entered, rose, and shaking his shaggy body, sat down
                    before me and offered me his huge paw, wagging his tail in the most friendly
                    manner all the while. I at once responded to his cordial greeting, and as I
                    stroked his noble head, I wondered where the animal had come from; for though we
                    had visited Signor Cellini's studio every day, there had been no sign or mention
                    of this stately, brown-eyed, four-footed companion. I seated myself, and the dog
                    immediately lay down at my feet, every now and then looking up at me with an affectionate glance and a renewed wagging of
                    his tail. Glancing around the well-known room, I noticed that the picture I
                    admired so much was veiled by a curtain of Oriental stuff, in which were
                    embroidered threads of gold mingled with silks of various brilliant hues. On the
                    working easel was a large square canvas, already prepared, as I supposed, for my
                    features to be traced thereon. It was an exceedingly warm morning, and though
                    the windows as well as the glass doors of the conservatory were wide open, I
                    found the air of the studio very oppressive. I perceived on the table a finely
                    wrought decanter of Venetian glass, in which clear water sparkled temptingly.
                    Rising from my chair, I took an antique silver goblet from the mantlepiece,
                    filled it with cool fluid, and was about to drink, when the cup was suddenly
                    snatched from my hand, and the voice of Cellini, changed from its usual softness
                    to a tone both imperious and commanding, startled me.
                
                “Do not drink that,” he said; “you must not! You dare not! I forbid you!”
                I looked up at him in mute astonishment. His face was very pale, and his large,
                    dark eyes shone with suppressed excitement. Slowly my self-possession returned
                    to me, and I said calmly:
                “You forbid me, signor? Surely you forget yourself. What harm have I
                    done in helping myself to a simple glass of water in your studio? You are not
                    usually so inhospitable.”
                While I spoke his manner changed, the colour returned to his face, and his eyes
                    softened—he smiled.
                “Forgive me, mademoiselle, for my brusquerie.
                    It is true I forgot myself for a moment, But you were in danger, and—”
                “In danger!” I exclaimed incredulously.
                “Yes, mademoiselle. This,” and he held up the Venetian decanter to the light, “is not water simply. If you will observe it
                    now with the sunshine beating full against it, I think you will perceive
                    peculiarities in it that will assure you of my veracity.”
                I looked as he bade me, and saw, to my surprise, that the fluid was never
                    actually still for a second. A sort of internal bubbling seemed to work in its
                    centre, and curious specks and lines of crimson and gold flashed through it from
                    time to time.
                “What is it?” 1 asked; adding with a half-smile, “are you the possessor of a
                    specimen of the far-famed Aqua Tofana?”
                Cellini placed the decanter carefully on a shelf, and I noticed that he chose a
                    particular spot for it, where the rays of the sun could fall perpendicularly
                    upon the vessel containing it. Then turning to me, he replied:
                “Aqua Tofana, mademoiselle, is a deadly poison,
                    known to the ancients and also many learned
                    chemists of our day. It is a clear and colourless liquid, but it is absolutely
                    still—as still as a stagnant pool. What I have just shown you is not poison, but
                    quite the reverse. I will prove this to you at once.” And taking a tiny liqueur glass from a side-table, he filled it with
                    the strange fluid and drank it off, carefully replacing the stopper in the
                    decanter.
                “But, Signor Cellini,” I urged, “if it is so harmless, why did you forbid my
                    tasting it? Why did you say there was danger for me when I was about to drink
                    it?”
                “Because, mademoiselle, for you it would be dangerous. Your health
                    is weak, your nerves unstrung. That elixir is a powerful vivifying tonic, acting
                    with great rapidity on the entire system, and rushing through the veins with the
                    swiftness of electricity. I am accustomed to it; it is my daily
                    medicine. But I was brought to it by slow and almost 
                        imper-
                        imperceptible
                     ceptible degrees. A single
                    teaspoonful of that fluid, mademoiselle, administered to anyone not prepared to
                    receive it, would be instant death, though its actual use is to vivify and
                    strengthen human life. You understand now why I said you were in danger?”
                “I understand,” I replied, though in sober truth I was mystified and puzzled.
                “And you forgive my seeming rudeness?”
                “Oh, certainly! But you have aroused my curiosity. I should like to know more
                    about this strange medicine of yours.”
                “You shall know more if you wish,” said Cellini, his usual equable humor and good
                    spirits now quite restored. “You shall know everything; but not to-day. We have
                    too little time. I have not yet commenced your picture. And I forgot—you were
                    thirsty, and I was, as you said, inhospitable. You must permit me to repair my
                    fault.”
                
                And with a courteous salute he left the room, to return almost immediately with a
                    tumbler full of some fragrant, golden-coloured liquid, in which lumps of ice
                    glittered refreshingly. A few loose rose-leaves were scattered on the top of
                    this dainty-looking beverage.
                “You may enjoy this without fear,” said he, smiling; “it will do you good. It is
                    an Eastern wine, unknown to trade, and therefore untampered with. I see you are
                    looking at the rose-leaves on the surface. That is a Persian custom, and I think
                    a pretty one. They float away from your lips in the action of drinking, and
                    therefore they are no obstacle.”
                I tasted the wine and found it delicious, soft and mellow as summer moonlight.
                    While I sipped it, the big Newfoundland, who had stretched himself in a couchant posture on the hearth-rug ever since
                    Cellini had first entered the room, rose and walked majestically to my side
                        and rubbed his head caressingly against the
                    folds of my dress.
                “Leo has made friends with you, I see,” said Cellini. “You should take that as a
                    great compliment, for he is most particular in his choice of acquaintance, and
                    most steadfast when he has once made up his mind. He has more decision of
                    character than many a statesman.”
                “How is it we have never seen him before?” I inquired. “You never told us you had
                    such a splendid companion.
                “I am not his master,” replied the artist. “He only favours me with a visit
                    occasionally. He arrived from Paris last night, and came straight here, sure of
                    his welcome. He does not confide his plans to me, but I suppose he will return
                    to his home when he thinks it advisable. He knows his own business best!”
                I laughed.
                “What a clever dog! Does he journey on foot, or does he take the train?”
                
                “I believe he generally patronizes the railway. All the officials know him, and
                    he gets into the guard's van as a matter of course. Sometimes he will alight at
                    a station en route, and walk the rest of the
                    way, But if he is lazily inclined, he does not stir till the train reaches its
                    destination. At the end of every six months or so, the railway authorities send
                    the bill of Leo's journeyings in to his master, when it is always settled
                    without difficulty.”
                “And who is his master?” I ventured to ask.
                Cellini's face grew serious and absorbed, and his eyes were full of a grave
                    contemplation as he answered:
                “His master, mademoiselle, is my master—one who among
                    men, is supremely intelligent; among teachers, absolutely unselfish; among
                    thinkers, purely impersonal; among friends, inflexibly faithful. To him I owe
                    everything—even life itself. For him no sacrifice, no extreme devotion, would be too great, could I hope thereby to
                    show my gratitude. But he is as far above human thanks or human rewards as the
                    sun is above the sea. Not here, not now, dare I say to him, My friend,
                        behold how much I love thee! such language would be all too poor and
                    unmeaning; but hereafter—who knows?—” and he broke off abruptly with a
                    half-sigh. Then, as if forcing himself to change the tenor of his thoughts, he
                    continued in a kind tone: “But, mademoiselle, I am wasting your time, and am
                    taking no advantage of the favour you have shown me by your presence to-day.
                    Will you seat yourself here?” and he placed an elaborately carved oaken settee
                    in one corner of the studio, opposite his own easel. “I should be sorry to
                    fatigue you at all,” he went on; “do you care for reading?”
                I answered eagerly in the affirmative, and he handed me a volume bound in
                    curiously embossed leather, and 
                        orna-
                        ornamented
                     mented with silver clasps. It was
                    entitled “Letters of a Dead Musician.”
                “You will find clear gems of thought, passion, and feeling in this book,” said
                    Cellini; “and being a musician yourself, you will know how to appreciate them.
                    The writer was one of those geniuses whose work the world repays with ridicule
                    and contempt. There is no fate more enviable!”
                I looked at the artist with some surprise as I took the volume he recommended,
                    and seated myself in the position he indicated; and while he busied himself in
                    arranging the velvet curtains behind me as a background, I said:
                “Do you really consider it enviable, Signor Cellini, to receive the world's
                    ridicule and contempt?”
                “I do indeed,” he replied, “since it is a certain proof that the world does not
                    understand you. To achieve something that is above human comprehension,
                        that is greatness. To have the
                    serene sublimity of the God-man Christ, and consent to be crucified by a gibing
                    world that was fated to be afterwards civilized and dominated by His teachings,
                    what can be more glorious? To have the magnificent versatility of a Shakespeare,
                    who was scarcely recognised in his own day, but whose gifts were so vast and
                    various that the silly multitudes wrangle over his very identity and the
                    authenticity of his plays to this hour—what can be more triumphant? To know that
                    one's own soul can, if strengthened and encouraged by the force of will, rise to
                    a supreme altitude of power—is not that sufficient to compensate for the little
                    whining cries of the common herd of men and women who have forgotten whether
                    they ever had a spiritual spark in them, and who, straining up to see the light
                    of genius that burns too fiercely for their earth-dimmed eyes, exclaim:
                        ‘We see nothing, therefore there can be nothing.’ Ah, mademoiselle, the knowledge of one's own inner
                        Self-Existence is a knowledge surpassing all the marvels of art
                    and science!”
                Cellini spoke with enthusiasm, and his countenance seemed illumined by the
                    eloquence that warmed his speech. I listened with a sort of dreamy satisfaction;
                    the usual sensation of utter rest that I always experienced in this man's
                    presence was upon me, and I watched him with interest as he drew with quick and
                    facile touch the outline of my features on his canvas.
                Gradually he became more and more absorbed in his work; he glanced at me from
                    time to time, but did not speak, and his pencil worked rapidly. I turned over
                    the “Letters of a Dead Musician” with some curiosity. Several passages struck me
                    as being remarkable for their originality and depth of thought; but what
                    particularly impressed me as I read on, was the tone of absolute joy and 
                        content-
                        contentment
                     ment that seemed to light up every
                    page. There were no wailings over disappointed ambition, no regrets for the
                    past, no complaints, no criticism, no word for or against the brothers of his
                    art; everything was treated from a lofty standpoint of splendid equality, save
                    when the writer spoke of himself, and then he became the humblest of the humble,
                    yet never abject, and always happy.
                “O Music!” he wrote, “Music, thou Sweetest Spirit of all that serve God, what
                    have I done that thou shouldst so often visit me? It is not well, O thou Lofty
                    and Divine one, that thou shouldst stoop so low as to console him who is the
                    unworthiest of all thy servants. For I am too feeble to tell the world how soft
                    is the sound of thy rustling pinions, how tender is the sighing breath of thy
                    lips, how beyond all things glorious is the vibration of thy lightest whisper!
                    Remain aloft, thou Choicest Essence of the Creator's Voice, remain in that pure and cloudless ether, where
                    alone thou art fitted to dwell. My touch must desecrate thee, my voice affright
                    thee. Suffice it to thy servant, O Belovëd, to dream of thee and die!”
                Meeting Cellini's glance as I finished reading these lines, I asked:
                “Did you know the author of this book, signor?”
                “I knew him well,” he replied; “he was one of the gentlest souls that ever dwelt
                    in human clay. As ethereal in his music as John Keats in his poetry, he was one
                    of those creatures born of dreams and rapture that rarely visit this planet.
                    Happy fellow! What a death was his!”
                “How did he die?” I inquired.
                “He was playing the organ in one of the great churches of Rome on the day of the
                    Feast of the Virgin. A choir of finely trained voices sang to his accompaniment,
                    his own glorious setting of the Regina
                        Cœli. The music was wonderful, startling, triumphant—ever rising in
                    power and majesty to a magnificent finale, when suddenly a slight crash was
                    heard; the organ ceased abruptly, the singers broke off. The musician was dead.
                    He had fallen forward on the keys of the instrument, and when they raised him,
                    his face was fairer than the face of any sculptured angel, so serene was its
                    expression, so rapt was its smile. No one could tell exactly the cause of his
                    death—he had always been remarkably strong and healthy. Everyone said it was
                    heart-disease—it is the usual reason assigned by medical savants for these sudden departures out of the world. His loss
                    was regretted by all, save myself and one other who loved him. We rejoiced, and
                    still do rejoice at his release.”
                I speculated vaguely on the meaning of these last words, but I felt disinclined
                    to ask any more questions, and Cellini,
                    probably seeing this, worked on at his sketch without further converse. My eyes
                    were growing heavy, and the printed words in the Dead Musician's Letters danced
                    before my sight like active little black demons with thin waving arms and legs.
                    A curious yet not unpleasant drowsiness stole over me, in which I heard the
                    humming of the bees at the open window, the singing of the birds, and the voices
                    of people in the hotel gardens, all united in one continuous murmur that seemed
                    a long way off. I saw the sunshine and the shadow—I saw the majestic Leo
                    stretched full length near the easel, and the slight supple form of Raffaello
                    Cellini standing out in bold outline against the light; yet all seemed shifting
                    and mingling strangely into a sort of wide radiance in which there was nothing
                    but varying tints of colour. And could it have been my fancy, or did I actually
                        see the curtain fall gradually away from my favourite picture, just enough for the face of the
                    “Angel of Life” to be seen smiling down upon me? I rubbed my eyes violently, and
                    started to my feet at the sound of the artist's voice.
                “I have tried your patience enough for to-day,” he said, and his words sounded
                    muffled, as though they were being spoken through a thick wall. “You can leave
                    me now if you like.”
                I stood before him mechanically, still holding the book he had lent me clasped in
                    my hand. Irresolutely I raised my eyes towards the “Lords of our Life and
                    Death.” It was closely veiled. I had then experienced an optical illusion. I
                    forced myself to speak—to smile—to put back the novel sensations that were
                    overwhelming me.
                “I think,” I said, and I heard myself speak as though I were somebody else at a
                    great distance off—“I think, Signor Cellini, your Eastern wine has been too potent for me. My head is quite heavy, and I
                    feel dazed.”
                “It is mere fatigue and the heat of the day,” he replied, quietly. “I am sure you
                    are not too dazed, as you call it, to see your favourite picture,
                    are you?”
                I trembled. Was not that picture veiled? I looked—there was no curtain at all,
                    and the faces of the two Angels shone out of the canvas with intense brilliancy!
                    Strange to say, I felt no surprise at this circumstance, which, had it occurred
                    a moment previously, would have unquestionably astonished and perhaps alarmed
                    me. The mistiness of my brain suddenly cleared; I saw everything plainly; I
                    heard distinctly; and when I spoke, the tone of my voice sounded as full and
                    ringing as it had previously seemed low and muffled. I gazed steadfastly at the
                    painting, and replied, half smiling:
                “I should be indeed ‘far gone,’ as the saying is, if I could not see that,
                    signor! It is truly your masterpiece. Why have
                    you never exhibited it?”
                “Can you ask that?” he said with impressive emphasis, at the same
                    time drawing nearer and fixing upon me the penetrating glace of his dark
                    fathomless eyes. It then seemed to me that some great inner force compelled me
                    to answer this half inquiry, in words of which I had taken no previous thought,
                    and which, as I uttered them, conveyed no special meaning to my own ears.
                “Of course,” I said slowly, as if I were repeating a lesson, “you would not so
                    betray the high trust committed to your charge.”
                “Well said!” replied Cellini; “you are fatigued, mademoiselle. Au revoir! Till
                    to-morrow!” And, throwing open the door of his studio, he stood aside for me to
                    pass out. I looked at him inquiringly.
                “Must I come at the same time to-morrow?” I asked.
                
                “If you please.”
                I passed my hand across my forehead perplexedly. I felt I had something else to
                    say before I left him. He waited patiently, holding back with one hand the
                    curtains of the portière.
                “I think I had a parting word to give you,” I said at last, meeting his gaze
                    frankly; “but I seem to have forgotten what it was.”
                Cellini smiled gravely.
                “Do not trouble to think about it, mademoiselle. I am unworthy the effort on your
                    part.”
                A flash of vivid light crossed my eyes for a second, and I exclaimed eagerly:
                “I remember now! it was ‘Dieu vous garde,’
                    signor!”
                He bent his head reverentially.
                “Merci mille fois, mademoiselle! Dieu vous garde—vous aussi. Au revoir.”
                And clasping my hand with a light yet friendly pressure, he closed the door of
                        his room behind me. Once alone in the
                    passage, the sense of high elation and contentment that had just possessed me
                    began gradually to decrease. I did not become actually dispirited, but a languid
                    feeling of weariness oppressed me, and my limbs ached as though I had walked
                    incessantly for many miles. I went straight to my own room. I consulted my
                    watch; it was half-past one, the hour at which the hotel luncheon was usually
                    served. Mrs. Everard had evidently not returned from her drive. I did not care
                    to attend the table d'hôte alone; besides, I
                    had no inclination to eat. I drew down the window-blinds to shut out the
                    brilliancy of the beautiful southern sunlight, and throwing myself on my bed I
                    determined to rest quietly till Amy came back. I had brought the “Letters of a
                    Dead Musician” away with me from Cellini's studio, and I began to read,
                    intending to keep myself awake by this means. But I found I could not fix my attention on the page, nor could I
                    think at all connectedly. Little by little my eyelids closed; the book dropped
                    from my nerveless hand; and in a few minutes I was in a deep and tranquil
                    slumber.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER III.
                THREE VISIONS.
                ROSES, roses! An interminable chain of these royal blossoms, red and
                    white, wreathed by the radiant fingers of small rainbow-winged creatures as airy
                    as moonlight mist, as delicate as thistledown! They cluster round me with
                    smiling faces and eager eyes; they place the end of their rose-garland in my
                    hand, and whisper, “Follow!” Gladly I obey, and hasten onward.
                    Guiding myself by the fragrant chain I hold, I pass through a labyrinth of
                    trees, whose luxuriant branches quiver with the
                    flight and song of birds. Then comes a sound of waters; the riotous rushing of a
                    torrent unchecked, that leaps sheer down from rocks a thousand feet high,
                    thundering forth the praises of its own beauty as it tosses in the air
                    triumphant crowns of silver spray. How the living diamonds within it shift, and
                    change, and sparkle! Fain would I linger to watch this magnificence; but the
                    coil of roses still unwinds before me, and the fairy voices still cry,
                        “Follow!” I press on. The trees grow thicker; the songs of the
                    birds cease; the light around me grows pale and subdued. In the far distance I
                    see a golden crescent that seems suspended by some invisible thread in the air.
                    Is it the young moon? No; for as I gaze it breaks apart into a thousand points
                    of vivid light like wandering stars. These meet; they blaze into letters of
                    fire. I strain my dazzled eyes to spell out their meaning. They form one word—HELIOBAS. I read it. I utter it aloud. The
                    rose-chain breaks at my feet, and disappears. The fairy voices die away on my
                    ear. There is utter silence, utter darkness, save where that one NAME writes
                    itself in burning gold on the blackness of the heavens.
                
                The interior of a vast cathedral is opened before my gaze. The lofty white marble
                    columns support a vaulted roof painted in fresco, from which are suspended a
                    thousand lamps that emit a mild and steady effulgence. The great altar is
                    illuminated; the priests, in glittering raiment, pace slowly to and fro. The
                    large voice of the organ murmuring to itself awhile, breaks forth in a shout of
                    melody; and a boy's clear, sonorous treble tones pierce the incense-laden air.
                        “Credo”—and the silver, trumpet-like notes
                    fall from the immense height of the building like a bell ringing in a pure atmosphere—“Credo in
                        unum Deum; Patrem omnipotentum, factorem cœli et terræ, visibilium omnium et
                        invisibilium.”
                The cathedral echoes with answering voices; and, involuntarily kneeling, I follow
                    the words of the grand chant. I hear the music slacken; the notes of rejoicing
                    change to a sobbing and remorseful wail; the organ shudders like a forest of
                    pines in a tempest, “Crucifixus etiam pro nobis; passus
                        et sepultus est.” A darkness grows up around me; my senses swim.
                    The music altogether ceases; but a brilliant radiance streams through a
                    side-door of the church, and twenty maidens, clad in white and crowned with
                    myrtle, pacing two by two, approach me. They gaze at me with joyous eyes. “Art
                    thou also one of us?” they murmur: then they pass onward to the altar, where
                    again the lights are glimmering. I watch them with eager interest; I hear them
                    uplift their fresh young voices in prayer and praise. One of them, whose deep blue eyes are full of lustrous
                    tenderness, leaves her companions, and softly approaches me. She holds a pencil
                    and tablet in her hand.
                “Write!” she says, in a thrilling whisper; “and write quickly! for whatsoever
                    thou shalt now inscribe is the clue to thy destiny.”
                I obey her mechanically, impelled not by my own will, but by some unknown
                    powerful force acting within and around me. I trace upon the tablet one word
                    only; it is a name that startles me even while I myself write it down—HELIOBAS.
                    Scarcely have I written it when a thick cloud veils the cathedral from my sight;
                    the fair maiden vanishes, and all is again still.
                
                I am listening to the accents of a grave melodious voice, which, from its slow
                    and measured tones, would seem to be in the action of reading or reciting aloud.
                    I see a small room sparely furnished, and at a
                    table covered with books and manuscripts is seated a man of noble features and
                    commanding presence. He is in the full prime of life; his dark hair has no
                    thread of silver to mar its luxuriance; his face is unwrinkled; his forehead
                    unfurrowed by care; his eyes, deeply sunk beneath his shelving brows, are of a
                    singularly clear and penetrating blue, with an absorbed and watchful look in
                    them, like the eyes of one accustomed to gaze far out at sea. His hand rests on
                    the open pages of a massive volume; he is reading, and his expression is intent
                    and earnest—as if he were uttering his own thoughts aloud, with the conviction
                    and force of an orator who knows the truth of which he speaks:
                “The Universe is upheld solely by the Law of Love. A majestic invisible
                    Protectorate governs the winds, the tides, the incoming and outgoing of the
                    seasons, the birth of the flowers, the growth of forests, the outpourings of the sunlight, the silent glittering of the stars.
                    A wide illimitable Beneficence embraces all creation. A vast Eternal Pity exists
                    for all sorrow, all sin. He who first swung the planets in the air, and bade
                    them revolve till Time shall be no more—He, the Fountain-Head of Absolute
                    Perfection, is no deaf, blind, capricious, or remorseless Being. To Him the
                    death of the smallest singing-bird is as great or as little as the death of a
                    world's emperor. To Him the timeless withering of an innocent flower is as
                    pitiful as the decay of a mighty nation. An infant's first prayer to Him is
                    heard with as tender a patience as the united petitions of thousands of
                    worshippers. For in everything and around everything, from the sun to a grain of
                    sand, He hath a portion, small or great, of His own most Perfect Existence.
                    Should He hate His Creation, He must perforce hate Himself; and that Love should hate Love is an impossibility.
                    Therefore He loves all his work; and as Love, to be perfect, must contain Pity,
                    Forgiveness, and Forbearance, so doth He pity, forgive, and forbear. Shall a
                    mere man deny himself for the sake of his child or friend? and shall the
                    Infinite Love refuse to sacrifice itself—yea, even to as immense a humility as
                    its greatness is immeasurable? Shall we deny those merciful attributes to God
                    which we acknowledge in His creature, Man? O my Soul, rejoice that thou hast
                    pierced the veil of the Beyond; that thou hast seen and known the Truth; that to
                    thee is made clear the Reason of Life, and the Recompense of Death: yet while
                    rejoicing, grieve that thou art not fated to draw more than a few souls to the
                    comfort thou hast thyself attained!”
                Fascinated by the speaker's voice and countenance I listen, straining my ears to
                    catch every word that falls from his lips. He
                    rises; he stands erect; he stretches out his hands as though in solemn
                    entreaty.
                “Azùl!” he exclaims, “Messenger of my fate, thou who art a guiding spirit of the
                    elements, thou who ridest the storm-cloud and sittest throned on the edge of the
                    lightning! Ay that electric spark within me, of which thou art the Twin Flame, I
                    ask of thee to send me this one more poor human soul; let me charge its
                    unrestfulness into repose, its hesitation to certainty, its weakness to
                    strength, its weary imprisonment to the light of liberty! Azùl!”
                His voice ceases, his extended hands fall slowly, and gradually, gradually he
                    turns his whole figure towards me. He faces me—his intense eves
                    burn through me—his strange yet tender smile absorbs me. Yet I am full of
                    unreasoning terror; I tremble—I strive to turn away from that searching and
                    magnetic gaze. His deep, melodious tones again
                    ring softly on the silence. He addresses me.
                “Fearest thou me, my child? Am I not thy friend? Knowest thou not the name of
                    HELIOBAS?”
                At this word I start and gasp for breath; I would shriek, but cannot, for a heavy
                    hand seems to close my mouth, and an immense weight presses me down. I struggle
                    violently with this unseen Power—little by little I gain the advantage. One
                    effort more! I win the victory—I wake!
                
                “Sakes alive!” says a familiar voice; “you have had a spell of
                    sleep! I got home about two, nearly starving, and I found you here curled up ‘in
                    a rosy infant slumber,’ as the song says.—So I hunted up the Colonel and had
                    lunch, for it seemed a sin to disturb you. It's just struck four. Shall we have
                    some tea up here?”
                I looked at Mrs. Everard, and smiled assent. So I had been sleeping for two hours and a half, and I had evidently been
                    dreaming all the time; but my dreams had been as vivid as realities. I felt
                    still rather drowsy, but I was thoroughly rested and in a state of delicious
                    tranquility. My friend rang the bell for tea, and then turned round and surveyed
                    me with a sort of wonder.
                “What have you done to yourself, child?” she said at last, approaching the bed
                    where I lay, and staring fixedly at me.
                “What do you mean?”
                “Why, you look a different creature. When I left you this morning you were pale
                    and haggard, a sort of die-away delicate invalid; now your eyes are bright, and
                    your cheeks have quite a lovely colour in them; your lips, too, are the right
                    tint. But perhaps,” and here she looked alarmed—“perhaps you've got the
                    fever?”
                “I don't think so,” I said amusedly, and I stretched out my hand for her to
                    feel.
                
                “No, you haven't,” she continued, evidently reassured; “your palm is moist and
                    cool, and your pulse is regular. Well, you look spry, anyhow. I shouldn't wonder
                    if you made up your mind to have a dance to-night.”
                “Dance?” I queried. “What dance, and where?”
                “Well, Madame Didier, that jolly little furbelowed Frenchwoman with whom I was
                    driving just now, has got up a regular party to-night—”
                “Hans Breitmann gib a barty?” I interposed, with a mock solemn air of
                    inquiry.
                Amy laughed.
                “Well, yes, it may be that kind of thing, for all I know to the
                    contrary. Anyhow, she's hired the band and ordered a right-down elegant supper.
                    Half the folks in the hotel are going, and a lot of outsiders have got
                    invitations. She asked if we couldn't come—myself, the Colonel, and you. I
                        said I could answer for myself and the
                    Colonel, but not for you, as you were an invalid. But if you keep on looking as
                    you do at present, no one will believe that there's anything the matter with
                    you.—Tea, Alphonse!” This to a polite waiter, who was our special attendant, and
                    who just then knocked at the door to know “madame's” orders.
                Utterly disbelieving what my friend said in regard to my improved appearance, I
                    rose from the bed and went to the dressing-table to look in the mirror and judge
                    for myself. I almost recoiled from my own reflection, so great was my surprise.
                    The heavy marks under my eyes, the lines of pain that had been for months
                    deepening in my forehead, the plaintive droop of the mouth that had given me
                    such an air of ill-health and anxiety—all were gone as if by magic. I saw a
                    rose-tinted complexion, a pair of laughing, lustrous eyes, and, altogether, such
                        a happy, mirthful young face smiled back at
                    me, that I half doubted whether it was indeed myself I saw.
                “There now!” cried Amy in triumph, watching me as I pushed my clustering hair
                    from my brows, and examined myself more intently. “Did I not tell you so? The
                    change in you is marvelous! I know what it is. You have been getting better
                    unconsciously to yourself in this lovely air and scene, and the long afternoon
                    sleep you've just had has completed the cure.”
                I smiled at her enthusiasm, but was forced to admit that she was right as far as
                    my actual looks went. No one would believe that I was, or ever had been, ill. In
                    silence I loosened my hair and began to brush it and put it in order before the
                    mirror, and as I did so my thoughts were very busy. I remembered distinctly all
                    that had happened in the studio of Raffaello Cellini, and still more was I able
                    to recall every detail of the three dreams that
                    had visited me in my slumber. The name, too, that had been the
                    key-note of them all I also remembered, but some instinct forbade me to utter it
                    aloud. Once I thought, “Shall I take a pencil and write it down lest I forget
                    it?” and the same instinct said “No.” Amy's voluble chatter ran on like the
                    sound of a rippling brook all the time I thus meditated over the occurrences of
                    the day.
                “Say, child!” she exclaimed; “will you go to the dance?”
                “Certainly I will, with pleasure,” I answered, and indeed I felt as if I should
                    thoroughly enjoy it.
                “Brava! It will be real fun. There are no end of foreign titles coming, I
                    believe. The Colonel's a bit grumpy about it; he always is when he has to wear
                    his dress suit. He just hates it. That man hasn't a particle of vanity. He looks
                    handsomer in his evening clothes than in
                    anything else, and yet he doesn't see it. But tell me,” and her pretty face
                    became serious with a true feminine anxiety, “what ever will you wear? You've
                    bought no ball fixings, have you?”
                I finished twisting up the last coil of my hair, and turned and kissed her
                    affectionately. She was the most sweet-tempered and generous of women, and she
                    would have placed any one of her elaborate costumes at my disposal had I
                    expressed the least desire in that direction. I answered:
                “No, dear; I certainly have no regular ball ‘fixings,’ for I never expected to
                    dance here, or anywhere for that matter. I did not bring the big trunks full of
                    Parisian toilettes that you indulge in, you spoilt bride! Still I have something
                    that may do. In fact it will have to do.”
                “What is it? Have I seen it? Do show!” and her curiosity was unappeasable.
                The discreet Alphonse tapped at the door again just at this moment.
                
                “Entrez!” I answered; and our tea, prepared with the tempting nicety peculiar to
                    the Hôtel de L—, appeared. Alphonse set the tray down with his usual artistic
                    flourish, and produced a small note from his vest-pocket.
                “For mademoiselle,” he said with a bow; and as he handed it to me, his eyes
                    opened wide in surprise. He too, perceived the change in my appearance. But he
                    was dignity itself, and instantly suppressed his astonishment into the polite
                    impassiveness of a truly accomplished waiter, and gliding from the room on the
                    points of his toes, as was his usual custom, he disappeared. The note was from
                    Cellini, and ran as follows:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                “If mademoiselle will be so good as to refrain from choosing any
                                    flowers for her toilette this evening, she will confer a favour
                                    on her humble friend and servant,
                                
                                    “Raffaello Cellini.”
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                I handed it to Amy, who was evidently burning with inquisitiveness to know its
                    contents.
                “Didn't I say he was a queer young man?” she exclaimed, as she perused the
                    missive attentively. “This is only his way of saying that he means to send you
                    some flowers himself. But what puzzles me is to think how he could possibly know
                    you were going to make any special ‘toilette’ this evening. It is really very
                    mysterious when I come to think of it, for Madame Didier said plainly that she
                    would not ask Cellini to the dance till she saw him at the table d'hôte to-night.”
                “Perhaps Alphonse has told him all about it,” I suggested.
                My friend's countenance brightened.
                “Of course! That is it; and Mr. Cellini takes it for granted that a girl of your
                    age would not be likely to refuse a dance. Still there is something odd about
                    it, too. By-the-bye, I forgot to ask you how the picture got on?”
                
                “Oh, very well, I believe,” I replied, evasively. “Signor Cellini only made a
                    slight outline sketch as a beginning.”
                “And was it like you?—a really good resemblance?”
                “I really did not examine it closely enough to be able to judge.”
                “What a demure young person you are!” laughed Mrs. Everard. “Now, I
                    should have rushed straight up to the easel and examined every line of what he
                    was doing. You are a model of discretion, really! I shan't be anxious about
                    leaving you alone any more. But about your dress for to-night. Let me see it,
                    there's a good girl.”
                I opened my trunk and took out a robe of ivory-tinted crêpe. It was made with
                    almost severe simplicity, and was unadorned, save by a soft ruffle of old
                    Mechlin lace round the neck and sleeves. Amy examined it critically.
                “Now, you would have looked perfectly
                    ghastly in this last night, when you were as pale and hollow-eyed
                    as a sick nun; but to-night,” and she raised her eyes to my face, “I believe you
                    will do. Don't you want the bodice cut lower?”
                “No, thanks!” I said smiling. “I will leave that to the portly dowagers—they will
                    expose neck enough for half-a-dozen other women.”
                My friend laughed.
                “Do as you like,” she returned; “only I see your gown has short sleeves, and I
                    thought you might like a square neck instead of that little simple Greek round.
                    But perhaps it's better as it is. The stuff is lovely; where did you get
                    it?”
                “At one of the London emporiums of Eastern art,” I answered. “My dear, your tea
                    is getting cold.”
                She laid the dress on the bed, and in doing so, perceived the antique-looking
                    book with the silver clasps which I had left there.
                
                “What's this?” she asked, turning it round to discover its name. “‘Letters of a
                    Dead Musician!’ What a shivery title! It suggests the ‘Fat Boy’ in ‘Pickwick,’
                    who said, ‘I want to make your flesh creep.’ Is it that kind of
                    entertaining reading?”
                “Not at all,” I replied, as I leaned comfortably back in an easy-chair and sipped
                    my tea. “It is a very scholarly, poetical, and picturesque work. Signor Cellini
                    lent it to me; the author was a friend of his.”
                Amy looked at me with a knowing and half-serious expression.
                “Say now—take care, take care! Aren't you and Cellini getting to be rather
                    particular friends—something a little beyond the Platonic, eh?”
                This notion struck me as so absurd that I laughed heartily. Then, without pausing
                    for one instant to think what I was saying, I answered with amazing readiness
                    and frankness, considering that I really knew nothing about it:
                
                “Why, my dear, Rafaello Cellini is betrothed, and he is a most devoted
                    lover.”
                A moment after I had uttered this assertion I was surprised at myself. What
                    authority had I for saying that Cellini was betrothed? What did I know about it?
                    Confused, I endeavoured to find some means of retracting this unfounded and rash
                    remark, but no words of explanation would come to my lips that had been so ready
                    and primed to deliver what might be, for all I knew, a falsehood. Amy did not
                    perceive my embarrassment. She was pleased and interested at the idea of
                    Cellini's being in love.
                “Really!” she exclaimed, “it makes him a more romantic character than ever! Fancy
                    his telling you that he was betrothed! How delightful! I must ask him all about
                    his chosen fair one. But I'm positively thankful it isn't you, for
                    I'm sure he's just a leetle bit off his head. Even this book he has
                    lent you looks like a wizard's property;” and
                    she fluttered the leaves of the “Dead Musician's” volume, turning them rapidly
                    over in search of something attractive. Suddenly she paused and cried out: “Why,
                    this is right-down awful! He must have been a regular madman! Just listen!” and
                    she read aloud:
                “‘How mighty are the Kingdoms of the Air! How vast they are—how densely
                    populated—how glorious are their destinies—how all-powerful and wise are their
                    inhabitants! They possess everlasting health and beauty—their movements are
                    music—their glances are light—they cannot err in their laws or judgements, for
                    existence is love. Thrones, principalities and powers are among them, yet all
                    are equal. Each one has a different duty to perform, yet all their labours are
                    lofty. But what a fate is ours on this low earth? For, from the cradle to the
                    grave, we are watched by these spiritual
                    spectators—watched with unflinching interest, unhesitating regard. O Angelic
                    Spirits, what is there in the poor and shabby spectacle of human life to attract
                    your mighty Intelligences? Sorrow, sin, pride, shame, ambition, failure,
                    obstinacy, ignorance, selfishness, forgetfulness—enough to make ye veil your
                    radiant faces in unpierceable clouds to hide for ever the sight of so much crime
                    and misery. Yet if there be the faintest, feeblest effort in our souls to answer
                    to the call of your voices, to rise above the earth by force of the same will
                    that pervades your destinies, how the sound of great rejoicing permeates those
                    wide continents ye inhabit, like a wave of thunderous music; and ye are glad,
                    Blessed Spirits!—glad with a gladness beyond that of your own lives, to feel and
                    to know that some vestige, however fragile, is spared from the general wreck of
                    selfish and unbelieving Humanity. Truly we work under the shadow of a “cloud
                        of witnesses.” Disperse, disperse, O dense
                    yet brilliant multitudes! turn away from me your burning, truthful, immutable
                    eyes, filled with that look of divine, perpetual regret and pity! Lo, how
                    unworthy am I to behold your glory! and yet I must see and know and love you
                    all, while the mad blind world rushes on to its own destruction, and none can
                    avert its doom.’”
                Here Amy threw down the book with a sort of contempt, and said to me:
                “If you are going to muddle your mind with the ravings of a lunatic, you are not
                    what I took you for. Why, it's regular spiritualism! Kingdoms of the air indeed!
                    And his cloud of witnesses! Rubbish!”
                “He quotes the cloud of witnesses from St. Paul,” I remarked.
                “More shame for him!” replied my friend, with the usual inconsistent indignation
                    that good Protestants invariably display when their pet corn, the Bible, is
                    accidentally trodden on. “It has been very well
                    said that the devil can quote Scripture, and this musician (a good job he
                        is dead, I'm sure) is perfectly blasphemous to quote the
                    Testament in support of his ridiculous ideas! St. Paul did not mean by ‘a cloud
                    of witnesses.’ a lot of ‘air multitudes’ and ‘burning immutable eyes,’ and all
                    that nonsense.”
                “Well, what did he mean?” I gently persisted.
                “Oh, he meant—why, you know very well what he meant,” said Amy, in a
                    tone of reproachful solemnity. “And I wonder at your asking me such a question!
                    Surely you know your Bible, and you must be aware that St. Paul could never have
                    approved of spiritualism.”
                “‘And there are bodies celestial and bodies terrestrial, but one is the glory
                        of the celestial,’” I quoted with a slight smile.
                Mrs. Everard looked shocked and almost angry.
                “My dear, I am ashamed of you! You are a
                    believer in spirits, I do declare! Why, I thought Maskelyne and Cook had cured
                    everybody of such notions; and now here's this horrid book going to make you
                    more nervous than ever. I shall have you getting up one night and shrieking
                    about burning immutable eyes looking at you.”
                I laughed merrily as I rose to pick up the discarded volume from the floor.
                “Don't be afraid,” I said; “I'll give back the book to Signor Cellini to-morrow,
                    and I will tell him that you do not like the idea of my reading it, and that I
                    am going to study the Bible instead. Come now, dear, don't look cross!” and I
                    embraced her warmly, for I liked her far too well to wish to offend her. “Let us
                    concentrate our attention on our finery for to-night, when a ‘dense and
                    brilliant multitude,’ not of air, but of the ‘earth earthy,’ will pass us under
                    critical survey. I assure you I mean to make the best of my improved looks, as I
                    don't believe they will last. I dare say I
                    shall be the ‘sick nun’ that you termed me again to-morrow.”
                “I hope not, dearest,” said my friend kindly, returning my caress and forgetting
                    her momentary ill-humour. “A jolly dance will do you good if you are careful to
                    avoid over-exertion. But you are quite right, we must really fix our things
                    ready for the evening, else we shall be all in a flurry at the last moment, and
                    nothing riles the Colonel so much as to see women in a fuss. I shall wear my
                    lace dress; but it wants seeing to. Will you help me?”
                Readily assenting, we were soon deep in the arrangement of the numberless little
                    mysteries that make up a woman's toilette; and nothing but the most frivolous
                    conversation ensued. But as I assisted in the sorting of laces, jewels, and
                    other dainty appendages of evening costume, I was deep in earnest meditation.
                    Reviewing in my own mind the various sensations I had experienced since I had
                    tasted that Eastern wine in Cellini's studio, I
                    came to the conclusion that he must have tried an experiment on me with some
                    foreign drug, of which he alone knew the properties. Why he should
                    do this I could not determine; but that be had done it I was certain. Besides
                    this, I felt sure that he personally exerted some influence upon me—a soothing
                    and calming influence I was forced to admit—still, it could hardly be allowed to
                    continue. To be under the control, however slight, of one who was almost a
                    stranger to me, was, at the least, unnatural and unpleasant. I was bound to ask
                    him a few plain questions. And, supposing Mrs. Everard were to speak to him
                    about his being betrothed, and he were to deny it, and afterwards were to turn
                    round upon me and ask what authority I had for making such a statement, what
                    should I say? Convict myself of falsehood? However, it was no use to puzzle over
                    the solution of this difficulty till it
                    positively presented itself. At any rate, I determined I would ask him frankly,
                    face to face, for some explanation of the strange emotions I had felt ever since
                    meeting him; and thus resolved, I waited patiently for the evening.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IV.
                A DANCE AND A PROMISE.
                OUR little French friend, Madame Didier, was not a woman
                    to do things by halves. She was one of those rare exceptions among Parisian
                    ladies—she was a perfectly happy wife; nay, more, she was in love with her own
                    husband, a fact which, considering the present state of society both in France
                    and England, rendered her almost contemptible in the eyes of all advanced
                    thinkers. She was plump and jolly in appearance; round-eyed and brisk as a
                    lively robin. Her husband, a large, mild- faced
                    placid man—“mon petit mari,” as she called
                    him—permitted her to have her own way in everything, and considered all she did
                    as perfectly well done. Therefore, when she had proposed this informal dance at
                    the Hôtel de L—, he made no objection, but entered into her plans with spirit;
                    and, what was far more important, opened his purse readily to her demands for
                    the necessary expenses. So nothing was stinted; the beautiful ballroom attached
                    to the hotel was thrown open, and lavishly decorated with flowers, fountains,
                    and twinkling lights; an awning extended from its windows right down the avenue
                    of dark ilex-trees, which were ornamented with Chinese lanterns; an elegant
                    supper was laid out in the large dining-room, and the whole establishment was
                        en fête. The delicious strains of a
                    Viennese band floated to our ears as Colonel Everard, his wife, and myself,
                    descended the staircase on our way to the scene of revelry; and 
                        sugges-
                        suggestions
                     tions of fairyland were presented to
                    us in the graceful girlish forms, clad in light diaphanous attire, that flitted
                    here and there, or occasionally passed us. Colonel Everard marched proudly along
                    with the military bearing that always distinguished him, now and then glancing
                    admiringly at his wife, who, indeed, looked her very best. Her dress was of the
                    finest Brussels lace, looped over a skirt of the palest shell-pink satin; deep
                    crimson velvet roses clustered on her breast, and nestled in her rich hair; a
                    necklace of magnificent rubies clasped her neck, and the same jewels glittered
                    on her round white arms. Her eyes shone with pleasurable excitement, and the
                    prettiest colour imaginable tinted her delicate cheeks.
                “When an American woman is lovely, she is very lovely,”
                    I said. “You will be the belle of the room
                    to-night, Amy!”
                “Nonsense!” she replied, well pleased, though,
                    at my remark. “You must remember I have a rival in yourself.”
                I shrugged my shoulders incredulously.
                “It is not like you to be sarcastical,” I said. “You know very well I have the
                    air of a resuscitated corpse.”
                The Colonel wheeled round suddenly, and brought us all up to a stand-still before
                    a great mirror.
                “If you are like a resuscitated corpse, I'll throw a hundred dollars
                    into the next mud-pond,” he observed. “Look at yourself.”
                I looked, at first indifferently, and then with searching scrutiny. I saw a small
                    slender girl, clad in white, with a mass of gold hair twisted loosely up from
                    her neck, and fastened with a single star of diamonds. A superb garniture of
                    natural lilies of the valley was fastened on this girl's shoulder; and, falling
                    loosely across her breast, lost itself in the trailing folds of her gown. She
                    held a palm-leaf fan, entirely covered with
                    lilies of the valley, and a girdle of the same flowers encircled her waist. Her
                    face was serious, but contented; her eyes were bright, but with an intense and
                    thoughtful lustre; and her cheeks were softly coloured as though a west wind had
                    blown freshly against them. There was nothing either attractive or repulsive
                    about her that I could see; and yet—I turned away from the mirror with a faint
                    smile.
                “The lilies form the best part of my toilette,” I said.
                “That they do,” asserted Amy, with emphasis. “They are the finest
                    specimens I ever saw. It was real elegant of Mr. Cellini to send them all fixed
                    up ready like that, fan and all. You must be a favourite of his!”
                “Come, let us proceed,” I answered, with some abruptness. “We are losing
                    time.”
                In a few seconds more we entered the ballroom,
                    and were met at once by Madame Didier, who, resplendent in black lace and
                    diamonds, gave us hearty greeting. She stared at me with unaffected
                    amazement.
                “Mon Dieu!” she exclaimed—her conversation with
                    us was always a mixture of French and broken English—“I should not 'ave know zis
                    young lady again! She 'ave si bonne mine. You
                    veel dance, sans doute?”
                We readily assented, and the usual assortment of dancing-men of all ages and
                    sizes was brought forward for our inspection; while the Colonel, being
                    introduced to a beaming English girl of some seventeen summers, whirled her at
                    once into the merry maze of dancers, who were spinning easily round to the
                    lively melody of one of Strauss's most fascinating waltzes. Presently I also
                    found myself circling the room with an amiable young German, who ambled round
                    with a certain amount of cleverness,
                    considering that he was evidently ignorant of the actual waltz step; and I
                    caught a glimpse now and then of Amy's rubies as they flashed past me in the
                    dance—she was footing it merrily with a handsome Austrian Hussar. The room was
                    pleasantly full—not too crowded for the movements of the dancers; and the whole
                    scene was exceedingly pretty and animated. I had no lack of partners, and I was
                    surprised to find myself so keenly alive to enjoyment, and so completely free
                    from my usual preoccupied condition of nervous misery. I looked everywhere for
                    Raffaello Cellini, but he was not to be seen. The lilies that I wore, which he
                    had sent me, seemed quite unaffected by the heat and glare of the gaslight—not a
                    leaf drooped, not a petal withered; and their remarkable whiteness and fragrance
                    elicited many admiring remarks from those with whom I conversed. It was growing
                        late; there were only two more waltzes
                    before the final cotillon. I was standing near
                    the large open window of the ball-room, conversing with one of my recent
                    partners, when a sudden inexplicable thrill shot through me from head to foot.
                    Instinctively I turned, and saw Cellini approaching. He looked remarkably
                    handsome, though his face was pale and somewhat wearied in expression. He was
                    laughing and conversing gaily with two ladies, one of whom was Mrs. Everard; and
                    as he came towards me he bowed courteously, saying:
                “I am too much honoured by the kindness mademoiselle has shown me in not
                    discarding my poor flowers.”
                “They are lovely,” I replied simply; “and I am very much obliged to you, signor,
                    for sending them to me.”
                “And how fresh they keep!” said Amy, burying her little nose in the fragrance
                        of my fan; “yet they have been in the heat
                    of the room all the evening.”
                “They can not perish while mademoiselle wears them,” said Cellini gallantly. “Her
                    breath is their life.”
                “Bravo!” cried Amy, clapping her hands. “That is very prettily said, isn't
                    it?”
                I was silent. I never could endure compliments. They always seem to me like the
                    so-called jam puffs sold by the London confectioners—all puff and no jam. Signor
                    Cellini appeared to divine my thoughts, for he said in a lower tone:
                “Pardon me, mademoiselle; I see my observation displeased you; but there is more
                    truth in it than you perhaps know.”
                “Oh, say!” interrupted Mrs. Everard at this juncture; “I am so interested,
                    signor, to hear you are engaged! I suppose she is a dream of beauty?”
                
                The hot colour rushed to my cheeks, and I bit my lips in confusion and
                    inquietude. What would he answer? My anxiety was not of long
                    duration. Cellini smiled, and seemed in no way surprised. He said quietly:
                “Who told you, madame, that I am engaged?”
                “Why, she did, of course!” went on my friend, nodding towards me, regardless of
                    an imploring look I cast at her. “And said you were perfectly devoted!”
                “She is quite right,” replied Cellini, with another of those rare sweet smiles of
                    his; “and you also are right, madame, in your supposition; my betrothed is a
                    dream of beauty.”
                I was infinitely relieved. I had not, then, been guilty of a falsehood. But the
                    mystery remained: how had I discovered the truth of the matter at all? While I
                    puzzled my mind over this question, the other lady who had accompanied Mrs. Everard spoke. She was an Austrian of
                    brilliant position and attainments,
                “You quite interest me, signor,” she said. “Is your fair fiancée here to-night?”
                “No, madame,” replied Cellini; “she is not in this country.”
                “What a pity!” exclaimed Amy. “I want to see her real bad. Don't you?” she asked,
                    turning to me.
                I raised my eyes and met the dark clear ones of the artist fixed full upon
                    me.
                “Yes,” I said hesitatingly; “I should like to meet her. Perhaps the chance will
                    occur at some future time.”
                “There is not the slightest doubt about that,” said Cellini. “And now,
                    mademoiselle, will you give me the pleasure of this waltz with you? or are you
                    promised to another partner?”
                I was not engaged, and I at once accepted his proffered arm. Two gentlemen came
                    hurriedly up to claim Amy and her Austrian
                    friend; and for one brief moment Signor Cellini and I stood alone in a
                    comparatively quiet corner of the ballroom, waiting for the music to begin. I
                    opened my lips to ask him a question, when he stopped me by a slight gesture of
                    his hand.
                “Patience!” he said in a low and earnest tone. “In a few moments you shall have
                    the opportunity you seek.”
                The band burst forth just then in the voluptuous strains of a waltz by Gung'l,
                    and together we floated away to its exquisite gliding measure. I use the word
                        floated advisedly, for no other term could express the
                    delightful sensation I enjoyed. Cellini was a superb dancer. It seemed to me
                    that our feet scarcely touched the floor, so swiftly, so easily and lightly we
                    sped along. A few rapid turns, and I noticed we were nearing the open French
                    windows, and, before I well realized it, we had stopped dancing and were pacing
                    quietly side by side down the ilex avenue,
                    where the little lanterns twinkled like red fireflies and green glow-worms among
                    the dark and leafy branches.
                We walked along in silence till we reached the end of the path. There, before us,
                    lay the open garden, with its broad green lawn, bathed in the lovely light of
                    the full moon, sailing aloft in a cloudless sky. The night was very warm, but,
                    regardless of this fact, Cellini wrapped carefully round me a large fleecy white
                    burnous that he had taken from a chair where it was lying, on his way through
                    the avenue.
                “I am not cold,” I said, smiling.
                “No; but you will be, perhaps. It is not wise to run any useless risks.”
                I was again silent. A low breeze rustled in the treetops near us; the music of
                    the ballroom reached us only in faint and far echoes; the scent of roses and
                    myrtle was wafted delicately on the balmy air; the radiance of the moon softened
                    the outlines of the landscape into a dreamy
                    suggestiveness of its reality. Suddenly a sound broke on our ears—a delicious,
                    long, plaintive trill; then a wonderful shower of sparkling roulades; and
                    finally, a clear, imploring, passionate note repeated many times. It was a
                    nightingale, singing as only the nightingales of the South can sing. I listened
                    entranced.
                
                        “‘Thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird!
                        No hungry generations tread thee down;
                        The voice I hear this passing night was heard
                        In ancient days by emperor and clown.’”
                     quoted Cellini in earnest tone.
                “You admire Keats?” I asked eagerly.
                “More than any other poet that has lived,” he replied. “His was the most ethereal
                    and delicate muse that ever consented to be tied down to earth. But,
                    mademoiselle, you do not wish to examine me as to my taste in poetry. You have
                    some other questions to put to me, have you not?”
                
                For one instant I hesitated. Then I spoke out frankly, and answered:
                “Yes, Signor. What was there in that wine you gave me this morning?”
                He met my searching gaze unflinchingly.
                “A medicine,” he said. “An excellent and perfectly simple remedy made of the
                    juice of plants, and absolutely harmless.”
                “But why,” I demanded, “why did you give me this medicine? Was it not wrong to
                    take so much responsibility upon yourself?”
                He smiled.
                “I think not. If you are injured or offended, then I was wrong; but if, on the
                    contrary, your health and spirits are ever so little improved, as I see they
                    are, I deserve your thanks, mademoiselle.”
                And he waited with an air of satisfaction and expectancy. I was puzzled and
                    half-angry, yet I could not help acknowledging to myself that I felt better and
                    more cheerful than I had done for many months. I looked up at the artist's dark, intelligent face, and said almost humbly:
                “I do thank you, signor. But surely you will tell me your reasons
                    for constituting yourself my physician without even asking my leave.”
                He laughed, and his eyes looked very friendly.
                “Mademoiselle, I am one of those strangely constituted beings who cannot bear to
                    see any innocent thing suffer. It matters not whether it be a worm in the dust,
                    a butterfly in the air, a bird, a flower, or a human creature. The first time I
                    saw you I knew that your state of health precluded you from the enjoyment of
                    life natural to your sex and age. I also perceived that the physicians had been
                    at work upon you trying to probe into the causes of your ailment, and they had
                    signally failed. Physicians, mademoiselle, are very clever and estimable men,
                    and there are a few things which come within the limit of their treatment; but there are also other things which
                    baffle their utmost profundity of knowledge. One of these is that wondrous piece
                    of human machinery, the nervous system; that intricate and delicate network of
                    fine threads—electric wires on which run the messages of thought, impulse,
                    affection, emotion, If these threads or wires become, from any subtle cause,
                    entangled, the skill of the mere medical practitioner is of no avail to undo the
                    injurious knot, or to unravel the confused skein. The drugs generally used in
                    such cases are, for the most part, repellent to the human blood and natural
                    instinct, therefore they are always dangerous, and often deadly. I knew, by
                    studying your face, mademoiselle, that you were suffering as acutely as I, too,
                    suffered some five years ago, and I ventured to try upon you a simple vegetable
                    essence, merely to see if you were capable of benefiting by it. The experiment
                    has been so far successful; but —”
                
                He paused, and his face became graver and more abstracted.
                “But what?” I queried eagerly.
                “I was about to say,” he continued, “that the effect is only transitory. Within
                    forty-eight hours you must naturally relapse into your former prostrate
                    condition, and I, unfortunately, am powerless to prevent it.”
                I sighed wearily, and a feeling of disappointment oppressed me. Was it possible
                    that I must again be the victim of miserable dejection, pain and stupor?
                “You can give another dose of your remedy,” I said.
                “That I cannot, mademoiselle,” he answered regretfully; “I dare not, without
                    further advice and guidance.”
                “Advice and guidance from whom?” I inquired.
                “From the friend who cured me of my long and almost hopeless illness,” said
                    Cellini. “He alone can tell me whether I am
                    right in my theories respecting your nature and constitution.”
                “And what are those theories?” I asked, becoming deeply interested in the
                    conversation.
                Cellini was silent for a minute or so; he seemed absorbed in a sort of inward
                    communion with himself. Then he spoke with impressiveness and gravity:
                “In this world, mademoiselle, there are no two natures alike, yet all are born
                    with a small portion of Divinity within them, which we call the Soul. It is a
                    mere spark smouldering in the centre of the clay with which we are encumbered,
                    yet it is is there. Now this particular germ or seed can be cultivated if we
                    WILL—that is, if we desire and insist on its growth. As a child's taste for art
                    or learning can be educated into high capabilities for the future, so can the
                    human Soul be educated into so high, so supreme an attainment, that no merely
                    mortal standard of 
                        measure-
                        measurement
                     ment can reach its magnificence.
                    With much more than half the inhabitants of the globe, this germ of immortality
                    remains always a germ, never sprouting, overlaid and weighted down by the
                    lymphatic laziness and materialistic propensities of its shell or husk—the body.
                    But I must put aside the forlorn prospect of the multitudes in whom the Divine
                    Essence attains to no larger quantity than that proportioned out to a dog or
                    bird—I have only to speak of the rare few with whom the soul is everything—those
                    who, perceiving and admitting its existence within them, devote all their powers
                    to fanning up their spark of light till it becomes a radiant, burning,
                    inextinguishable flame. The mistake made by these examples of beatified Humanity
                    is that they too often sacrifice the body to the demands of the spirit. It is
                    difficult to find the medium path, but it can be found; and the claims of body
                    and soul can be satisfied without sacrificing the one to the other. I beg your earnest attention,
                    mademoiselle, for what I say concerning the rare few with whom the Soul is
                        everything. You are one of those few, unless I am greatly in error.
                    And you have sacrificed your body so utterly to your spirit that the flesh
                    rebels and suffers. This will not do. You have work before you in the world, and
                    you cannot perform it unless you have bodily health as well as spiritual desire.
                    And why? Because you are a prisoner here on earth, and you must obey the laws of
                    the prison, however unpleasant they may be to you. Were you free as you have
                    been in ages past and as you will be in ages to come, things would be different;
                    but at present you must comply with the order of your gaolers—the Lords of Life
                    and Death.”
                I heard him, half awed, half fascinated. His words were full of mysterious
                    suggestions.
                “How do you know I am of the 
                        tempera-
                        temperament
                     ment you describe?” I asked in a low
                    voice.
                “I do not know, mademoiselle; I can only guess. There is but one person who can
                    perhaps judge of you correctly—a man older than myself by many years—whose life
                    is the very acme of spiritual perfection—whose learning is vast and
                    unprejudiced. I must see and speak to him before I try any more of my, or rather
                        his, remedies. But we have lingered long enough out here, and
                    unless you have something more to say to me, we will return to the ballroom. You
                    will otherwise miss the cotillon;” and he
                    turned to retrace the way through the illuminated grove.
                But a sudden thought had struck me, and I resolved to utter it aloud. Laying my
                    hand on his arm, and looking him full in the face, I said slowly and
                    distinctly:
                “This friend of yours that you speak of—is not his name HELIOBAS?”
                Cellini started violently; the blood rushed up
                    to his brows and as quickly receded, leaving him paler than before. His dark
                    eyes glowed with suppressed excitement—his hand trembled. Recovering himself,
                    slowly, he met my gaze fixedly; his glance softened and he bent his head with an
                    air of respect and reverence.
                “Mademoiselle, I see that you must know all. It is your fate. You are greatly to
                    be envied. Come to me to-morrow, and I will tell you everything that is to be
                    told. Afterwards your destiny rests in your own hands. Ask nothing more of me
                    just now.
                He escorted me without further words back to the ballroom, where the merriment of
                    the cotillon was then at its height.
                    Whispering to Mrs. Everard as I passed her that I was tired and was going to
                    bed, I reached the outside passage, and there, turning to Cellini, I said
                    gently:
                “Good-night, signor. To-morrow at noon I will come.”
                
                He replied:
                “Good night, mademoiselle! To-morrow at noon you will find me ready.”
                With that he saluted me courteously and turned away. I hurried up to my own room,
                    and on arriving there I could not help observing the remarkable freshness of the
                    lilies I wore. They looked as if they had just been gathered. I unfastened them
                    all from my dress, and placed them carefully in water; then quickly disrobing, I
                    was soon in bed. I meditated for a few minutes on the various odd occurrences of
                    the day; but my thoughts soon grew misty and confused, and I travelled quickly
                    off into the Land of Nod, and thence into the region of sleep, where I remained
                    undisturbed by so much as the shadow of a dream.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER V.
                CELLINI'S STORY.
                THE following morning at the appointed hour, I went to
                    Cellini's studio, and was received by him with a sort of gentle courtesy and
                    kindliness that became him very well. I was already beginning to experience an
                    increasing languor and weariness, the sure forerunner of what the artist had
                    prophesied—namely, a return of all my old sufferings. Amy, tired out by the
                    dancing of the previous night, was still in bed, as were many of those who had
                    enjoyed Madame Didier's fête; and the hotel was unusually quiet, almost seeming as though half the visitors had
                    departed during the night. It was a lovely morning, sunny and calm; and Cellini,
                    observing that I looked listless and fatigued, placed a comfortable easy-chair
                    for me near the window, from whence I could see one of the prettiest parterres
                    of the garden, gay with flowers of every colour and perfume. He himself remained
                    standing, one hand resting lightly on his writing-table, which was strewn with a
                    confusion of letters and newspapers.
                “Where is Leo?” I asked, as I glanced round the room in search of that noble
                    animal.
                “Leo left for Paris last night,” replied Cellini; “he carried an important
                    despatch for me, which I feared to trust to the post-office.”
                “Is it safer in Leo's charge?” I inquired, smiling, for the sagacity of the dog
                    amused as well as interested me.
                “Much safer! Leo carries on his collar a small
                    tin case, just large enough to contain several folded sheets of paper. When he
                    knows he has that box to guard during his journeys, he is simply unapproachable.
                    He would fight anyone who attempted to touch it with the ferocity of a hungry
                    tiger, and there is no edible dainty yet invented that could tempt his appetite
                    or coax him into any momentary oblivion of his duty. There is no more
                    trustworthy or faithful messenger.”
                “I suppose you have sent him to your friend—his master,” I said.
                “Yes. He has gone straight home to—Heliobas.”
                This name now awakened in me no surprise or even curiosity. It simply sounded
                    home-like and familiar. I gazed abstractedly out of the window at the brilliant
                    blossoms in the garden, that nodded their heads at me like so many little elves
                    with coloured caps on, but I said nothing. I felt that Cellini watched me keenly and closely. Presently he
                    continued:
                “Shall I tell you everything now, mademoiselle?”
                I turned towards him eagerly.
                “If you please,” I answered.
                “May I ask you one question?”
                “Certainly.”
                “How and where did you hear the name of Heliobas?”
                I looked up hesitatingly.
                “In a dream, signor, strange to say; or rather in three dreams. I will relate
                    them to you.”
                And I described the vision I had seen, being careful to omit no detail, for,
                    indeed, I remembered everything with curious distinctness.
                The artist listened with grave and fixed attention. When I had concluded he
                    said:
                “The elixir I gave you acted more potently than even I imagined it would. You are more sensitive than I thought. Do not
                    fatigue yourself any more, mademoiselle, by talking. With your permission I will
                    sit down here opposite to you and tell you my story. Afterwards you must decide
                    for yourself whether you will adopt the method of treatment to which I owe my
                    life, and something more than my life—my reason.”
                He turned his own library-chair towards me, and seated himself. A few moments
                    passed in silence; his expression was very earnest and absorbed, and he regarded
                    my face with a sympathetic interest which touched me profoundly. Though I felt
                    myself becoming more and more enervated and apathetic as the time went on, and
                    though I knew I was gradually sinking down again into my old Slough of Despond,
                    yet I felt instinctively that I was somehow actively concerned in what was about
                    to be said, therefore I forced myself to attend closely to every word uttered. Cellini began to speak in low and quiet
                    tones as follows:
                “You must be aware, mademoiselle, that those who adopt any art as a means of
                    livelihood begin the world heavily handicapped—weighted down, as it were, in the
                    race for fortune. The following of art is a very different thing to the
                    following of trade or mercantile business. In buying or selling, in undertaking
                    the work of import or export, a good head for figures, and an average quantity
                    of shrewd common-sense, are all that is necessary in order to win a fair share
                    of success. But in the finer occupations, whose results are found in sculpture,
                    painting, music, and poetry, demands are made upon the imagination, the
                    emotions, the entire spiritual susceptibility of man. The most delicate fibres
                    of the brain are taxed; the subtle inner working of thought are brought into
                    active play; and the temperament becomes daily and hourly more finely strung, more sensitive, more keenly alive to every
                    passing sensation. Of course there are many so-called “artists” who are
                    mere shams of the real thing; persons who, having a little surface education in
                    one or the other branch of the arts, play idly with the paint-brush, or dabble
                    carelessly in the deep waters of literature,—or borrow a few crochets and
                    quavers from other composers, and putting them together in haste, call it
                        original composition. Among these are to be found the
                    self-called ‘professors’ of painting; the sculptors who allow the work of their
                    ‘ghosts’ to be admired as their own; the magazine-scribblers; the ‘smart’ young
                    leader-writers and critics; the half-hearted performers on piano or violin who
                    object to any innovation, and prefer to grind on in the unemotional, coldly
                    correct manner which they are pleased to term ‘the classical’—such persons
                    exist, and will exist, so long as good and evil are leading forces of life. They are the aphides on the rose of art. But the men and women I speak of as
                        artists are those who work day and night to attain even a small
                    degree of perfection, and who are never satisfied with their own best efforts. I
                    was one of these some years ago, and I humbly assert myself still to be of the
                    same disposition; only the difference between myself then and
                    myself now is, that then I struggled blindly and
                    despairingly, and now I labour patiently and with calmness, knowing
                    positively that I shall obtain what I seek at the duly appointed hour. I was
                    educated as a painter, mademoiselle, by my father, a good, simple-hearted man,
                    whose little landscapes looked like bits cut out of the actual field and
                    woodland, so fresh and pure were they. But I was not content to follow in the
                    plain path he first taught me to tread. Merely correct drawing, merely correct
                    colouring, were not sufficient for my ambition. I had dazzled my eyes with the loveliness of Correggio's ‘Madonna,’
                    and had marvelled at the wondrous blue of her robe—a blue so deep and intense
                    that I used to think that one might scrape away the paint till a hole was bored
                    in the canvas and yet not reach the end of that fathomless azure tint; I had
                    studied the warm hues of Titian; I had felt ready to float away in the air with
                    the marvellous ‘Angel of the Annunciation’—and with all these thoughts in me,
                    how could I content myself with the ordinary aspiration of modern artists? I
                    grew absorbed in one subject—Colour. I noted how lifeless and pale the colouring
                    of to-day appeared beside that of the old masters, and I meditated deeply on the
                    problem thus presented to me. What was the secret of Correggio—of Fra
                    Angelico—of Raphael? I tried various experiments; I bought the most expensive
                    and highly guaranteed pigments. In vain, for they were all adulterated by the
                    dealers! Then I obtained colours in the rough,
                    and ground and mixed them myself; still, though a little better result was
                    obtained, I found trade adulteration still at work with the oils, the varnishes,
                    the mediums—in fact, with everything that painters use to gain effect in their
                    works. I could nowhere escape from vicious dealers, who, to gain a miserable
                    percentage on every article sold, are content to be among the most dishonest men
                    in this dishonest age.
                “I assure you, mademoiselle, that not one of the pictures which are now being
                    painted for the salons of Paris and London can possibly last a hundred years. I
                    recently visited that Palace of Art, the South Kensington Museum, in London, and
                    saw there a large fresco by Sir Frederick Leighton. It had just been completed,
                    I was informed. It was already fading! Within a few years it will be a blur of
                    indistinct outlines. I compared its condition
                    with the cartoons of Raphael, and a superb Giorgione in the same building; these
                    were as warm and bright as though recently painted. It is not Leighton's fault
                    that his works are doomed to perish as completely off the canvas as though he
                    had never traced them; it is his dire misfortune, and that of every other
                    nineteenth-century painter, thanks to the magnificent institution of free trade,
                    which has resulted in a vulgar competition of all countries and all classes to
                    see which can most quickly jostle the other out of existence. But I am wearying
                    you, mademoiselle—pardon me! To resume my own story. As I told you, I could
                    think of nothing but the one subject of Colour; it haunted me incessantly. I saw
                    in my dreams visions of exquisite forms and faces that I longed to transfer to
                    my canvas, but I could never succeed in the attempt. My hand seemed to have lost
                    all skill. About this time my father died, and
                    I, having no other relation in the world, and no ties of home to cling to, lived
                    in utter solitude, and tortured my brain more and more with the one question
                    that baffled and perplexed me. I became moody and irritable; I avoided
                    intercourse with every one, and at last sleep forsook my eyes. Then came a
                    terrible season of feverish trouble, nervous dejection and despair. At times I
                    would sit silently brooding; at others I started up and walked rapidly for
                    hours, in the hope to calm the wild unrest that took possession of my brain. I
                    was then living in Rome, in the studio that had been my father's. One
                    evening—how well I remember it!—I was attacked by one of those fierce impulses
                    that forbade me to rest or think or sleep, and as usual, I hurried out for one
                    of those long aimless excursions I had latterly grown accustomed to. At the open
                    street-door stood the proprietress of the house, a stout, good- natured contadina, with her youngest child Pippa
                    holding to her skirt. As she saw me approaching, she started back with an
                    exclamation of alarm, and catching the little girl up in her arms, she made the
                    sign of the cross rapidly. Astonished at this, I paused in my hasty walk, and
                    said with as much calmness as I could muster:
                “‘What do you mean by that? Have I the evil-eye, think you?’
                “Curly-haired Pippa stretched out her arms to me—I had often caressed the little
                    one, and given her sweetmeats and toys—but her mother held her back with a sort
                    of smothered scream and muttered:
                “‘Holy Virgin! Pippa must not touch him; he is mad!’
                “Mad? I looked at the woman and child in scornful amazement. Then without further
                    words I turned and went swiftly away down the street out of their sight. Mad!
                    Was I indeed losing my reason? Was this the terrific meaning of my sleepless nights, my troubled thoughts, my strange
                    inquietude? Fiercely I strode along, heedless whither I was going, till I found
                    myself suddenly on the borders of the desolate Campagna. A young moon gleamed
                    aloft, looking like a slender sickle thrust into the heavens to reap an
                    over-abundant harvest of stars. I paused irresolutely. There was a deep silence
                    everywhere. I felt faint and giddy; curious flashes of light danced past my
                    eyes, and my limbs shook like those of a palsied old man. I sank upon a stone to
                    rest, to try and arrange my scattered ideas into some sort of connection and
                    order. Mad! I clasped my aching head between my hands, and brooded on the
                    fearful prospect looming before me, and in the words of poor King Lear, I prayed
                    in my heart: 
                        “‘O let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heavens!’
                    
                “Prayer! There was another thought. How could I pray?
                    For I was a sceptic. My father had educated me
                    with broadly materialistic views; he himself was a follower of Voltaire, and
                    with his finite rod he took the measure of Divinity, greatly to his own
                    satisfaction. He was a good man, too, and he died with exemplary calmness in the
                    absolute certainty of there being nothing in his composition but dust, to which
                    he was bound to return. He had not a shred of belief in anything but what he
                    called the Universal Law of Necessity; perhaps this was why all his pictures
                    lacked inspiration. I accepted his theories without thinking much about them,
                    and I had managed to live respectably without any religious belief. But
                        now—now with the horrible phantom of madness
                    rising before me—my firm nerves quailed. I tried, I longed to pray.
                    Yet to whom? To what? To the Universal Law of Necessity? In that there could be
                    no hearing or answering of human petitions. I meditated on this with a kind of sombre ferocity. Who
                    portioned out this Law of Necessity? What brutal Code compels us to be born, to
                    live, to suffer, and to die without recompense or reason? Why should this
                    Universe be an ever-circling Wheel of Torture? Then a fresh impetus came to me.
                    I rose from my recumbent posture and stood erect; I trembled no more. A curious
                    sensation of defiant amusement possessed me so violently that I laughed aloud.
                    Such a laugh, too! I recoiled from the sound, as from a blow, with a shudder. It
                    was the laugh of—a madman! I thought no more; I was resolved. I would fulfill
                    the grim Law of Necessity to its letter. If Necessity caused my birth, it also
                    demanded my death. Necessity could not force me to live against my will. Slowly
                    and deliberately I took from my vest a Milanese dagger of thin sharp steel—one
                    that I always carried with me as a means of
                    self-defence—I drew it from its sheath, and looked at the fine edge glittering
                    coldly in the pallid moon-rays. I kissed it joyously; it was my final remedy! I
                    poised it aloft with firm fingers—another instant and it would have been buried
                    deep in my heart, when I felt a powerful grasp on my wrist, and a strong arm
                    struggling with mine forced the dagger from my hand. Savagely angry at being
                    thus foiled in my desperate intent, I staggered back a few paces and sullenly
                    stared at my rescuer. He was a tall man, clad in a dark overcoat bordered with
                    fur; he looked very like a wealthy Englishman or American travelling for
                    pleasure. His features were fine and commanding; his eyes gleamed with a gentle
                    disdain as he coolly met my resentful gaze. When he spoke his vice was rich and
                    mellifluous, though his accents had a touch in them of grave scorn.
                “‘So you are tired of your life, young man. All
                    the more reason have you to live. Anyone can die. A murderer has moral force
                    enough to jeer at his hangman. It is very easy to draw the last breath. It can
                    be accomplished successfully by a child or a warrior. One pang of far less
                    anguish than the toothache, and all is over. There is nothing heroic about it, I
                    assure you! It is as common as going to bed; it is almost prosy.
                        Life is heroism, if you like; but death is a mere cessation of
                    business. And to make a rapid and rude exit off the stage before the prompter
                    gives the sign is always, to say the least of it, ungraceful. Act the part out,
                    no matter how bad the play. What say you?’
                “And, balancing the dagger lightly on one finger, as though it were a
                    paper-knife, he smiled at me with so much frank kindliness that it was
                    impossible to resist him. I advanced and held out my hand.
                
                “‘Whoever you are,’ I said, ‘you speak like a true man. But you are ignorant of
                    the causes which compelled me to—’ and a hard sob choked my utterance. My new
                    acquaintance pressed my proffered hand cordially, but the gravity of his tone
                    did not vary as he replied:
                “‘There is no cause, my friend, which compels us to take violent leave of
                    existence, unless it be madness or cowardice.’
                “‘Aye! and what if it were madness?’ I asked him eagerly. He scanned me
                    attentively, and laying his fingers lightly on my wrist, felt my pulse.
                “‘Pooh, my dear sir!’ he said; ‘you are no more mad than I am. You are a little
                    over-wrought and excited—that I admit. You have some mental worry that consumes
                    you. You shall tell me all about it. I have no doubt I can cure you in a few
                    days.’
                “Cure me? I looked at him in wonderment and doubt.
                
                “‘Are you a physician?’ I asked.
                He laughed. ‘Not I! I should be sorry to belong to the profession. Yet I
                    administer medicines and give advice in certain cases. I am simply a remedial
                    agent—not a doctor. But why do we stand here in this bleak place, which must be
                    peopled by the ghosts of olden heroes? Come with me, will you? I am going to the
                    Hôtel Costanza, and we can talk there. As for this pretty toy, permit me to
                    return it to you. You will not force it again to the unpleasant task of
                    despatching its owner.’
                “And he handed the dagger back to me with a slight bow. I sheathed it at once,
                    feeling somewhat like a chidden child, as I met the slightly satirical gleam of
                    the clear blue eyes that watched me.
                “‘Will you give me your name, signor?’ I asked, as we turned from the Campagna
                    towards the city.
                “‘With pleasure. I am called Heliobas. A
                    strange name? Oh, not at all! It is pure Chaldee. My mother—as lovely an Eastern
                    houri as Murillo's Madonna, and as devout as Santa Teresa—gave me the Christian
                    saint's name of Casimir also, but Heliobas pur et
                        simple suits me best, and by it I am generally known.’
                “‘You are a Chaldean?’ I inquired.
                “‘Exactly so. I am descended directly from one of those “wise men of the East”
                    (and, by the way, there were more than three, and they were not all kings), who,
                    being wide awake, happened to notice the birth-star of Christ on the horizon
                    before the rest of the word's inhabitants had so much as rubbed their sleepy
                    eyes. The Chaldeans have been always quick of observation from time immemorial.
                    But in return for my name, you will favour me with yours?’
                “I gave it readily, and we walked on together. I felt wonderfully calmed and
                    cheered—as soothed, mademoiselle. I have
                    noticed you yourself have felt when in my company.”
                Here Cellini paused, and looked at me as though expecting a question; but I
                    preferred to remain silent till I had heard all he had to say. He therefore
                    resumed:
                “We reached the Hôtel Costanza, where Heliobas was evidently well known. The
                    waiters addressed him as Monsieur le Comte; but he gave me no information as to
                    this title. He had a superb suite of rooms in the hotel, furnished with every
                    modern luxury; and as soon as we entered, a light supper was served. He invited
                    me to partake, and within the space of half an hour I had told him all my
                    history—my ambition—my strivings after the perfection of colour—my
                    disappointment, dejection, and despair—and, finally, the fearful dread of coming
                    madness that had driven me to attempt my own life. He listened patiently and
                    with unbroken attention. When I had finished,
                    he laid one hand on my shoulder, and said gently:
                “‘Young man, pardon me if I say that up to the present your career has been an
                    inactive, useless, selfish “kicking against the pricks,” as St. Paul says. You
                    set before yourself a task of noble effort, namely, to discover the secret of
                    colouring as known to the old masters; and because you meet with the petty
                    difficulty of modern trade adulteration in your materials, you think that there
                    is no chance—that all is lost. Fie! Do you think Nature is over-come by a few
                    dishonest traders! She can still give you in abundance the unspoilt colours she
                    gave to Raphael and Titian; but not in haste—not if you vulgarly scramble for
                    her gifts in a mood that is impatient of obstacle and delay. Ohne häst, ohne räst,” is the motto of the stars.
                    Learn it well. You have injured your bodily health by useless fretfulness and
                    peevish discontent, and with that we have
                    first to deal. In a week's time, I will make a sound, sane man of you; and then
                    I will teach you how to get the colours you seek—yes!’ he added, smiling, ‘even
                    to the compassing of Correggio's blue.’
                “I could not speak for joy and gratitude; I grasped my friend and preserver by
                    the hand. We stood thus together for a brief interval, when suddenly Heliobas
                    drew himself up to the full stateliness of his height and bent his calm eyes
                    deliberately upon me. A strange thrill ran through me; I still held his
                    hand.
                “‘Rest!’ he said in slow and emphatic tones. ‘Weary and over-wrought frame, take
                    thy full and needful measure of repose! Struggling and deeply injured spirit, be
                    free of thy narrow prison! By that Force which I acknowledge within me and thee
                    and in all created things, I command thee, rest!’
                “Fascinated, awed, overcome by his manner, I gazed at him and would have spoken, but my tongue refused its office—my
                    senses swam—my eyes closed—my limbs gave way—I fell senseless.”
                Cellini again paused and looked at me. Intent on his words, I would not interrupt
                    him. He went on:
                “When I say senseless, mademoiselle, I allude of course to my body. But I,
                    myself—that is, my soul—was conscious; I lived, I moved, I heard, I saw. Of that
                    experience I am forbidden to speak. When I returned to mortal existence I found
                    myself lying on a couch in the same room where I had supped with Heliobas, and
                    Heliobas himself sat near me reading. It was broad noonday. A delicious sense of
                    tranquility and youthful buoyancy was upon me, and without speaking I sprang up
                    from my recumbent position and touched him on the arm. He looked up.
                “‘Well?’ he asked, and his eyes smiled.
                “I seized his hand, and pressed it reverently to my lips.
                
                “‘My best friend!’ I exclaimed. ‘What wonders have I not seen—what truths have I
                    not learned—what mysteries!’
                “‘On all these things be silent,’ replied Heliobas. ‘They must not be lightly
                    spoken of. And of the questions you naturally desire to ask me, you shall have
                    the answers in due time. What has happened to you is not extraordinary; you have
                    simply been acted upon by scientific means. But your cure is not yet complete. A
                    few days more passed with me will restore you thoroughly. Will you consent to
                    remain so long in my company?’
                “Gladly and gratefully I consented, and we spent the next ten days together,
                    during which Heliobas administered to me certain remedies, external and
                    internal, which had a marvellous effect in renovating and invigorating my
                    system. By the expiration of that time I was strong and well—a sound and sane
                    man as my rescuer had promised I should be—my
                    brain was fresh and eager for work, and my mind was filled with new and grand
                    ideas of art. And I had gained through Heliobas two inestimable things—a full
                    comprehension of the truth of religion, and the secret of human destiny; and I
                    had won a love so exquisite!”
                Here Cellini paused, and his eyes were uplifted in a sort of wondering rapture.
                    He continued after a pause:
                “Yes, mademoiselle, I discovered that I was loved, and watched over and guided by
                        One so divinely beautiful, so gloriously faithful, that mortal
                    language fails before the description of such perfection!”
                He paused again, and again continued:
                “When he found me perfectly healthy again in mind and body, Heliobas showed me
                    his art of mixing colours. From that hour all my works were successful. You know
                    that my pictures are eagerly purchased as soon
                    as completed, and that the colour I obtain in them is to the world a mystery
                    almost magical. Yet there is not one among the humblest of artists who could not
                    if he chose make use of the same means as I have done to gain the nearly
                    imperishable hues that still glow on the canvases of Raphael. But of this there
                    is no need to speak just now. I have told you my story, mademoiselle, and it now
                    rests with me to apply its meaning to yourself. You are attending?”
                “Perfectly,” I replied; and, indeed, my interest at this point was so strong,
                    that I could almost hear the expectant beating of my heart. Cellini resumed:
                “Electricity, mademoiselle, is, as you are aware, the wonder of our age. No end
                    can be foreseen to the marvels it is capable of accomplishing. But one of the
                    most important branches of this great science is ignorantly derided just now by
                    the larger portion of society—I mean the use
                    of human electricity; that force which is in each one of us—in you and in me—and
                    to a very great extent, in Heliobas. He has cultivated the electricity in his
                    own system to such an extent that his mere touch, his lightest glance, have
                    healing in them, or the reverse, as he chooses to exert his power—I may say it
                    is never the reverse, for he is full of kindness, sympathy and pity for all
                    humanity. His influence is so great that he can, without speaking, by his mere
                    presence suggest his own thoughts to other people who are perfect strangers, and
                    cause them to design and carry out certain actions in accordance with his plans.
                    You are incredulous? Mademoiselle, this power is in every one of us, only we do
                    not cultivate it, because our education is yet so imperfect. To prove the truth
                    of what I say, I, though I have only advanced a little way in the
                    cultivation of my own electric force, even I have influenced
                        you. You cannot deny it. By
                    my thought, impelled to you, you saw clearly my picture that was actually
                    veiled. By my force, you replied correctly to a question I asked
                    you concerning that same picture. By my desire, you gave me,
                    without being aware of it, a message from one I love when you said, ‘Dieu vous garde!’ You remember? And the elixir I
                    gave you, which is one of the simplest remedies discovered by Heliobas, had the
                    effect of making you learn what he intended you to learn—his name.”
                “He!” I exclaimed. “Why, he does not know me—he can have no intentions towards
                        me!”
                “Mademoiselle,” replied Cellini gravely, “if you will think again of the last of
                    your three dreams, you will not doubt that he has intentions
                    towards you. As I told you, he is a physical electrician. By that
                    is meant a great deal. He knows by instinct whether he is or will be needed
                    sooner or later. Let me finish what I have to
                    say. You are ill, mademoiselle—ill from over-work. You are an improvisatrice—that is, you have the emotional
                    genius of music, a spiritual thing unfettered by rules, and utterly
                    misunderstood by the world. You cultivate this faculty, regardless of cost; you
                    suffer, and you will suffer more. In proportion as your powers in music grow, so
                    will your health decline. Go to Heliobas; he will do for you what he did for me.
                    Surely you will not hesitate? Between years of weak invalidism and perfect
                    health in less than a fortnight, there can be no question of choice.”
                I rose from my seat slowly.
                “Where is this Heliobas?” I asked. “In Paris?”
                “Yes, in Paris. If you decide to go there, take my advice, and go alone. You can
                    easily make some excuse to your friends. I will give you the address of a
                    ladies' Pension, where you will be made at home and comfortable. May I do this?”
                “If you please,” I answered.
                He wrote rapidly in pencil on a card of his own:
                “MADAME DENISE,
                “36 Avenue du Midi,
                “Paris,”
                and handed it to me. I stood still where I had risen, thinking deeply. I had been
                    impressed and somewhat startled by Cellini's story; but I was in no way alarmed
                    at the idea of trusting myself to a physical electrician such as Heliobas
                    professed to be. I knew that that there were many cases of serious illness being
                    cured by means of electricity—that electric baths and electric appliances of all
                    descriptions were in ordinary use; and I saw no reason to be surprised at the
                    fact of a man being in existence who had cultivated electric force within
                    himself to such an extent that he was able to
                    use it as a healing power. There seemed to me to be really nothing extraordinary
                    in it. The only part of Cellini's narration I did not credit was the
                    soul-transmigration he professed to have experienced; and I put that down to
                    over-excitement of his imagination at the time of his first interview with
                    Heliobas. But I kept this thought to myself. In any case, I resolved to go to
                    Paris. The great desire of my life was to be in perfect health, and I determined
                    to omit no means of obtaining this inestimable blessing. Cellini watched me as I
                    remained standing before him in silent abstraction.
                “Will you go?” he inquired at last.
                “Yes; I will go,” I replied. “But will you give me a letter to your friend?”
                “Leo has taken it and all necessary explanations already,” said Cellini, smiling;
                    “I knew you would go. Heliobas expects you the day after to-morrow. His 
                        resi-
                        residence
                     dence is Hôtel Mars, Champs Élysées.
                    You are not angry with me, mademoiselle? I could not help knowing that you would
                    go.”
                I smiled faintly.
                “Electricity again, I suppose! No, I am not angry. Why should I be? I thank you
                    very much, signor, and I shall thank you more if Heliobas indeed effects my
                    cure.”
                “Oh, that is certain, positively certain,” answered Cellini; “you can indulge
                    that hope as much as you like, mademoiselle, for it is one that cannot be
                    disappointed. Before you leave me, you will look at your own picture, will you
                    not?” and, advancing to his easel, he uncovered it.
                I was greatly surprised. I thought he had but traced the outline of my features,
                    whereas the head was almost completed. I looked at it as I would look at the
                    portrait of a stranger. It was a wistful, sad-
                    eyed, plaintive face, and on the pale gold of the hair rested a coronal of
                    lilies.
                “It will soon be finished,” said Cellini, covering the easel again; “I shall not
                    need another sitting, which is fortunate, as it is so necessary for you to go
                    away. And now will you look at ‘Life and Death’ once more?”
                I raised my eyes to the grand picture, unveiled that day in all its beauty.
                “The face of the Life-Angel there,” went on Cellini quietly, “is a poor and
                    feeble resemblance of the One I love. You knew I was betrothed,
                    mademoiselle?
                I felt confused, and was endeavouring to find an answer to this when he
                    continued:
                “Do not trouble to explain, for I know how you knew.
                    But no more of this. Will you leave Cannes to-morrow?”
                “Yes. In the morning.”
                “Then good-bye, mademoiselle. Should I never see you again—”
                
                “Never see me again!” I interrupted. “Why, what do you mean?”
                “I do not allude to your destinies, but to mine,” he
                    said, with a kindly look. “My business may call me away from here before you
                    come back—our paths may lie apart—many circumstances may occur to prevent our
                    meeting—so that, I repeat, should I never see you again, you will, I hope, bear
                    me in your friendly remembrance as one who was sorry to see you suffer, and who
                    was the humble means of guiding you to renewed health and happiness.”
                I held out my hand, and my eyes filled with tears. There was something so gentle
                    and chivalrous about him, and withal so warm and sympathetic, that I felt indeed
                    as if I were bidding adieu to one of the truest friends I should ever have in my
                    life.
                “I hope nothing will cause you to leave Cannes till I return to it,” I said with
                        real earnestness. “I should like you to
                    judge of my restoration to health.”
                “There will be no need for that,” he replied; “I shall know when you are quite
                    recovered through Heliobas.”
                He pressed my hand warmly.
                “I brought back the book you lent me,” I went on; “but I should like a copy of it
                    for myself. Can I get it anywhere?”
                “Heliobas will give you one with pleasure,” replied Cellini; “you have only to
                    make the request. The book is not on sale. It was printed for private
                    circulation only. And now, mademoiselle, we part. I congratulate you on the
                    comfort and joy awaiting you in Paris. Do not forget the address—Hôtel Mars,
                    Champs Élysées. Farewell!”
                And again shaking my hand cordially, he stood at his door watching me as I passed
                    out and began to ascend the stairs leading to my room. On the landing I paused, and, looking round, saw him still
                    there. I smiled and waved my hand. He did the same in response, once—twice; then
                    turning abruptly, disappeared.
                That afternoon I explained to Colonel and Mrs. Everard that I had resolved to
                    consult a celebrated physician in Paris (whose name, however, I did not
                    mention), and should go there alone for a few days. On hearing that I knew of
                    well-recommended ladies' Pension they made no
                    objection to my arrangements, and they agreed to remain at the Hôtel de L— till
                    I returned. I gave them no details of my plans, and of course never mentioned
                    Raffaello Cellini in connection with the matter. A nervous and wretchedly
                    agitated night made me more than ever determined to try the means of cure
                    proposed to me. At ten o'clock the following morning I left Cannes by express
                    train for Paris. Just before starting I noticed that the lilies of the valley
                    Cellini had given me for the dance had, in
                    spite of my care, entirely withered, and were already black with decay—so black
                    that they looked as though they had been scorched by a flash of lightning.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VI.
                THE HÔTEL MARS AND ITS OWNER.
                IT was between three and four o'clock in the afternoon of
                    the day succeeding the night of my arrival in Paris, when I found myself
                    standing at the door of the Hôtel Mars, Champs Élysées. I had proved the
                        Pension kept by Madame Denise to be
                    everything that could be desired and on my presentation of Raffaello Cellini's
                    card of introduction, I had been welcomed by the maîtresse de la maison with a cordial effusiveness that amounted
                    almost to enthusiasm.
                
                “Ce cher Cellini!” the cheery and pleasant little woman had exclaimed, as she set
                    before me a deliciously prepared breakfast. "Je l'aime tant! Il a si bon cœur!
                    et ses beaux yeux! Mon Dieu, comme un ange!”
                As soon as I had settled the various little details respecting my room and
                    attendance, and had changed my travelling-dress for a quiet visiting toilette, I
                    started for the abode of Heliobas.
                The weather was very cold; I had left the summer behind me at Cannes, to find
                    winter reigning supreme in Paris. A bitter east wind blew, and a few flakes of
                    snow fell now and then from the frowning sky. The house to which I betook myself
                    was situated at a commanding corner of a road facing the Champs Élysées. It was
                    a noble-looking building. The broad steps leading to the entrance were guarded
                    on either side by a sculptured Sphinx, each of whom held, in its massive stone
                        paws, a plain shield, inscribed with the
                    old Roman greeting to strangers, “Salve!” Over the portico was designed a scroll
                    which bore the name “Hôtel Mars” in clearly cut capitals, and the monogram
                    C.H.
                I ascended the steps with some hesitation, and twice I extended my hand towards
                    the bell, desiring yet fearing to awaken its summons. I noticed it was an
                    electric bell, not needing to be pulled but pressed; and at last, after many
                    doubts and anxious suppositions, I very gently laid my fingers on the little
                    button which formed its handle. Scarcely had I done this than the great door
                    slid open rapidly without the least noise. I looked for the servant in
                    attendance—there was none. I paused an instant; the door remained invitingly
                    open, and through it I caught a glimpse of flowers. Resolving to be bold, and to
                    hesitate no longer, I entered. As I crossed the threshold, the door closed behind me instantly with its previous
                    swiftness and silence.
                I found myself in a spacious hall, light and lofty, surrounded with fluted
                    pillars of white marble. In the centre a fountain bubbled melodiously, and
                    tossed up every now and then a high jet of sparkling spray, while round its
                    basin grew the rarest ferns and exotics, which emitted a subtle and delicate
                    perfume. No cold air penetrated here; it was as warm and balmy as a spring day
                    in Southern Italy. Light Indian bamboo chairs provided with luxurious velvet
                    cushions were placed in various corners between the marble columns, and on one
                    of these I seated myself to rest a minute, wondering what I should do next, and
                    whether anyone would come to ask me the cause of my intrusion. My meditations
                    were soon put to flight by the appearance of a young lad, who crossed the hall
                    from the left-hand side and approached me. He was a handsome boy of twelve or thirteen years of age, and he was attired
                    in a simple Greek costume of white linen, relieved with a broad crimson silk
                    sash. A small flat crimson cap rested on his thick black curls; this he lifted
                    with deferential grace, and saluting me, said respectfully:
                “My master is ready to receive you, mademoiselle.”
                I rose without a word and followed him, scarcely permitting myself to speculate
                    as to how his master knew I was there at all.
                The hall was soon traversed, and the lad paused before a magnificent curtain of
                    deep crimson velvet, heavily bordered with gold. Pulling a twisted cord that
                    hung beside it, the heavy, regal folds parted in twain with noiseless
                    regularity, and displayed an octagon room, so exquisitely designed and
                    ornamented that I gazed upon it as upon some rare and beautiful picture. It was
                    unoccupied, and my young escort placed a chair for me near the central window, informing me as he did so
                    that “Monsieur le Comte” would be with me instantly; whereupon he departed.
                Left alone, I gazed in bewilderment at the loveliness around me. The walls and
                    ceiling were painted in fresco. I could not make out the subjects, but I could
                    see faces of surpassing beauty smiling from clouds, and peering between stars
                    and crescents. The furniture appeared to be of very ancient Arabian design; each
                    chair was a perfect masterpiece of wood-carving, picked out and inlaid with
                    gold. The sight of a semi-grande piano, which stood open, displaying the name of
                    its maker—“PLEYELL”—upon it, brought me back to the realization that I was
                    living in modern times, and not in a dream of the Arabian Nights; while the
                    Paris Figaro and the London Times—both of that
                    day's issue—lying on a side-table, demonstrated the nineteenth century to me
                    with every possible clearness. There were
                    flowers everywhere in this apartment—in graceful vases and in gilded osier
                    baskets—and a queer lop-sided Oriental jar stood quite near me, filled almost to
                    overflowing with Neapolitan violets. Yet it was winter in Paris, and flowers
                    were rare and costly.
                Looking about me, I perceived an excellent cabinet photograph of Raffaello
                    Cellini, framed in antique silver; and I rose to examine it more closely, as
                    being the face of a friend. While I looked at it, I heard the sound of an organ
                    in the distance playing softly an old familiar church chant. I listened.
                    Suddenly I bethought myself of the three dreams that had visited me. This
                    Heliobas, was I right after all in coming to consult him? Was he not perhaps a
                    mere charlatan? and might not his experiments
                    upon me prove fruitless, and possibly fatal? An idea seized me that I would
                    escape while there was yet time. Yes; I would
                    not see him to-day, at any rate; I would write and explain. These and other
                    disjointed thoughts crossed my mind; and yielding to the unreasoning impulse of
                    fear that possessed me, I actually turned to leave the room, when I saw the
                    crimson velvet portière dividing again in its
                    regular and graceful folds, and Heliobas himself entered.
                I stood mute and motionless. I knew him well; he was the very man I had seen in
                    my third and last dream; the same noble, calm features; the same commanding
                    presence; the same keen, clear eyes; the same compelling smile. There was
                    nothing extraordinary about his appearance except his stately bearing and
                    handsome countenance; his dress was that of any well-to-do gentleman of the
                    present day, and there was no affectation of mystery in his manner. He advanced
                    and bowed courteously; then, with a friendly look, held out his hand. I gave him mine at once.
                “So you are the young musician?” he said, in those warm mellifluous accents that
                    I had heard before and that I so well remembered. “My friend Raffaello Cellini
                    has written to me about you. I hear you have been suffering from physical
                    depression?”
                He spoke as any physician might do who inquired after a patient's health. I was
                    surprised and relieved. I had prepared myself for something darkly mystical,
                    almost cabalistic; but there was nothing unusual in the demeanour of this
                    pleasant and good-looking gentleman who, bidding me be seated, took a chair
                    himself opposite to me, and observed me with that sympathetic and kindly
                    interest which any well-bred doctor would esteem it his duty to exhibit. I
                    became quite at ease, and answered all his questions fully and frankly. He felt
                    my pulse in the customary way, and studied my
                    face attentively. I described all my symptoms, and he listened with the utmost
                    patience. When I had concluded he leaned back in his chair and appeared to
                    ponder deeply for some moments. Then he spoke:
                “You know, of course, that I am not a doctor?”
                “I know,” I said; “Signor Cellini explained to me.”
                “Ah!” and Heliobas smiled. “Raffaello explained as much as he might, but not
                    everything. I must tell you I have a simple pharmacopœia of my own—it contains
                    twelve remedies, and only twelve. In fact there are no more that are of any use
                    to the human mechanism. All are made of the juice of plants, and six of them are
                    electric. Raffaello tried you with one of them, did he not?”
                As he put this question, I was aware of a keenly inquiring look sent from the
                    eyes of my interrogator into mine.
                
                “Yes,” I answered frankly, “and it made me dream, and I dreamt of
                        you.”
                Heliobas laughed lightly.
                “So!—that is well. Now I am going in the first place to give you what I am sure
                    will be satisfactory information. If you will agree to trust yourself to my
                    care, you will be in perfect health in a little less than a fortnight—but you
                    must follow my rules exactly.”
                I started up from my seat.
                “Of course!” I exclaimed eagerly, forgetting all my previous fear of him; “I will
                    do all you advise, even if you wish to magnetize me as you magnetized Signor
                    Cellini!
                “I never magnetized Raffaello,” he said gravely; “he was on the
                    verge of madness, and he had no faith whereby to save himself. I simply set him
                    free for a time, knowing that his was a genius which would find out things for
                    itself or perish in the effort. I let him go on a voyage of 
                        dis-
                        discovery
                     covery, and he came perfectly
                    satisfied. That is all. You do not need his experience.”
                “How do you know?” I asked.
                “You are a woman—your desire is to be well and strong, health being beauty—to
                    love and to be beloved—to wear pretty toilettes and to be admired; and you have
                    a creed which satisfies you, and which you believe in without proofs.”
                There was the slightest possible tinge of mockery in his voice as he said these
                    words. A tumultuous rush of feelings overcame me. My high dreams of ambition, my
                    innate scorn of the trite and commonplace, my deep love of art, my desires of
                    fame—all these things bore down upon my heart and overcame it, and a pride too
                    deep for tears arose in me and found utterance.
                “You think I am so slight and weak a thing!” I exclaimed.
                        “You, who profess to understand the secrets of electricity— you have no better instinctive knowledge of
                    me than that! Do you deem women all alike—all on one common level,
                    fit for nothing but to be the toys or drudges of men? Can you not realize that
                    there are some among them who despise the inanities of everyday life—who care
                    nothing for the routine of society, and whose hearts are filled with cravings
                    that no mere human love or life can satisfy? Yes—even weak women are capable of
                    greatness; and if we do sometimes dream of what we cannot accomplish through
                    lack of the physical force necessary for large achievements, that is not our
                    fault but our misfortune. We did not create ourselves. We did not ask to be born
                    with the over-sensitiveness, the fatal delicacy, the highly strung nervousness
                    of the feminine nature. Monsieur Heliobas, you are a learned and far-seeing man,
                    I have no doubt; but you do not read me aright if you judge me as a
                    mere woman who is perfectly contented with the
                    petty commonplaces of ordinary living. And as for my creed, what is it to you
                    whether I kneel in the silence of my own room or in the glory of a lighted
                    cathedral to pour out my very soul to ONE whom I know exists, and whom I am
                    satisfied to believe in, as you say, without proofs, save such proofs as I
                    obtain from my own inner consciousness? I tell you, though in your opinion it is
                    evident my sex is against me, I would rather die than sink into the miserable
                    nonentity of such lives as are lived by the majority of women.”
                I paused, overcome by my own feelings. Heliobas smiled.
                “So! You are stung!” he said quietly; “stung into action. That is as it should
                    be. Resume your seat, mademoiselle, and do not be angry with me. I am studying
                    you for your own good. In the meantime permit me to analyze your words a little.
                    You are young and inexperienced. You speak of
                    the ‘over-sensitiveness, the fatal delicacy, the highly-strung nervousness of
                    the feminine nature.’ My dear lady, if you had lived as long as I have, you
                    would know that these are mere stock phrases—for the most part meaningless. As a
                    rule, women are less sensitive than men. There are many of your sex who are
                    nothing but lumps of lymph and fatty matter—women with less instinct than the
                    dumb beasts, and with more brutality. There are others who, adding the low
                    cunning of the monkey to the vanity of the peacock, seek no other object but the
                    furtherance of their own designs, which are always petty even when not
                    absolutely mean. There are obese women whose existence is a doze between dinner
                    and tea. There are women with thin lips and pointed noses, who only live to
                    squabble over domestic grievances and interfere in their neighbours' business.
                    There are your murderous women with large
                    almond eyes, fair white hands, and voluptuous red lips, who, deprived of the
                    dagger or the poison-bowl, will slay a reputation in a few lazily enunciated
                    words, delivered with a perfectly high-bred accent. There are the miserly women
                    who look after cheese-parings and candle-ends, and lock up the soap. There are
                    the spiteful women whose very breath is acidity and venom. There are the
                    frivolous women, whose chitter-chatter and senseless giggle are as empty as the
                    rattling of dry peas on a drum. In fact, the delicacy of women is extremely
                    over-rated—their coarseness is never done full justice to. I have heard them
                    recite in public, selections of a kind that no man would dare to undertake—such
                    as Tennyson's ‘Rizpah,’ for instance. I know a woman who utters every line of
                    it, with all its questionable allusions, boldly before any and everybody,
                    without so much as an attempt at blushing. I assure you men are far more
                    delicate than women —far more chivalrous—far
                    larger in their views, and more generous in their sentiments. But I will not
                    deny the existence of about four women in every two hundred and fifty, who may
                    be, and possibly are, examples of what the female sex was originally intended to
                    be—pure-hearted, self-denying, gentle and truthful—filled with tenderness and
                    inspiration. Heaven knows my own mother was all this and more! And my sister is—
                    But let me speak to you of yourself. You love music, I understand—you are a
                    professional artist?”
                “I was,” I answered, “till my state of health stopped me from working.”
                Heliobas bent his eyes upon me in friendly sympathy.
                “You were, and you will be again, an improvisatrice,” he went on. “Do you not find it difficult to
                    make your audiences understand your aims?”
                I smiled as the remembrance of some of my
                    experiences in public came to my mind.
                “Yes,” I said, half laughing. “In England, at least, people do not know what is
                    meant by improvising. They think it is to take a little theme and
                    compose variations on it—the mere A B C of the art. But to sit down to the piano
                    and plan a whole sonata or symphony in your head, and play it while planning it,
                    is a thing they do not and will not understand. They come to hear, and they
                    wonder and go away, and the critics declare it to be
                    clap-trap.”
                “Exactly!” replied Heliobas. “But you are to be congratulated on having attained
                    this verdict. Everything that people cannot quite understand is called
                        clap-trap in England; as for instance the matchless violin
                    playing of Sarasate; the tempestuous splendour of Rubinstein; the elfish, weird
                    grumblings and gambollings of Bottesini's contra-basso—this is, according to the London press, clap-trap;
                    while the coldly correct performances of Joachim, and the ‘icily-null’
                    renderings of Charles Hallé are voted ‘magnificent’ and ‘full of colour.’ But to
                    return to yourself. Will you play to me?”
                “I have not touched the instrument for two months,” I said; “I am afraid I am out
                    of practice.”
                “Then you shall not exert yourself to-day,” returned Heliobas kindly. “But I
                    believe I can help you with your improvisations. You compose the music as you
                    play, you tell me. Well, have you any idea how the melodies or the harmonies
                    form themselves in your brain?”
                “Not the least in the world,” I replied.
                “Is the act of thinking them out an effort to you?” he asked.
                “Not at all. They come as though some one else were planning them for me.”
                “Well, well! I think I can certainly be of use to you in this matter as in
                        others. I understand your temperament
                    thoroughly. And now let me give you my first prescription.”
                He went to a corner of the room and lifted from the floor an ebony casket,
                    curiously carved and ornamented with silver. This he unlocked. It contained
                    twelve flasks of cut glass, stoppered with gold and numbered in order. He next
                    pulled out a side drawer in this casket, and in it I saw several little thin
                    empty glass tubes, about the size of a cigarette-holder. Taking two of these he
                    filled them from two of the larger flasks, corked them tightly, and then turning
                    to me, said:
                “To-night, on going to bed, have a warm bath, empty the contents of the tube
                    marked No. 1 into it, and then immerse yourself thoroughly for about five
                    minutes. After the bath, put the fluid in this other tube marked 2, into a
                    tumbler of fresh spring water, and drink it off. Then go straight to bed.”
                
                “Shall I have any dreams?” I inquired with a little anxiety.
                “Certainly not,” replied Heliobas, smiling. “I wish you to sleep as soundly as a
                    year-old child. Dreams are not for you to-night. Can you come to me to-morrow
                    afternoon at five o'clock? If you can arrange to stay to dinner, my sister will
                    be pleased to meet you; but perhaps you are otherwise engaged?”
                I told him I was not, and explained where I had taken rooms, adding that I had
                    come to Paris expressly to put myself under his treatment.
                “You shall have no cause to regret the journey,” he said earnestly. “I can cure
                    you thoroughly, and I will. I forget your nationality—you are not English?”
                “No, not entirely. I am half Italian.”
                “Ah, yes! I remember now. But you have been educated in England?”
                “Partly.”
                “I am glad it is only partly,” remarked
                    Heliobas. “If it had been entirely, your improvisations would have had no
                    chance. In fact you never would have improvised. You would have played the piano
                    like poor mechanical Arabella Goddard. As it is, there is some hope of
                    originality in you—you need not be one of the rank and file unless you
                    choose.”
                “I do not choose,” I said.
                “Well, but you must take the consequences, and they are bitter. A woman who does
                    not go with her time is voted eccentric; a woman who prefers music to tea and
                    scandal is an undesirable acquaintance; and a woman who prefers Byron to Austin
                    Dobson is—in fact, no measure can gauge her general impossibility!”
                I laughed gaily. “I will take all the consequences as willingly as I will take
                    your medicines,” I said, stretching out my hand for the little vases which he
                    gave me wrapped in paper. “And I thank you very much monsieur. And”—here I 
                        hesi-
                        hesitated
                     tated. Ought I not to ask him his
                    fee? Surely the medicines ought to be paid for!
                Heliobas appeared to read my thoughts, for he said, as though answering my
                    unuttered question:
                “I do not accept fees, mademoiselle. To relieve your mind from any responsibility
                    of gratitude to me, I will tell you at once that I never promise to effect a
                    cure unless I see that the person who comes to be cured has a certain connection
                    with myself. If the connection exists I am bound by fixed laws to serve him or
                    her. Of course I am able also to cure those who are not by nature
                    connected with me; but then I have to establish a connection, and
                    this takes time, and is sometimes very difficult to accomplish, almost as
                    tremendous a task as the laying down of the Atlantic cable. But in your case I
                    am actually compelled to do my best for you, so you need be under
                    no sense of obligation.”
                
                Here was a strange speech—the first really inexplicable one I had heard from his
                    lips.
                “I am connected with you?” I asked, surprised. “How? In what
                    way?”
                “It would take too long to explain to you just now,” said Heliobas gently; “but I
                    can prove to you in a moment that a connection does exist between
                        your inner self and my inner self, if you wish
                    it.”
                “I do wish it very much,” I answered.
                “Then take my hand,” continued Heliobas, stretching it out, “and look steadily at
                    me.
                I obeyed, half trembling. As I gazed, a veil appeared to fall from my eyes. A
                    sense of security, of comfort, and of absolute confidence came upon me, and I
                    saw what might be termed the image of another face looking at me
                        through or behind the actual form and face of
                    Heliobas. And that other face was his, and yet not his; but whatever it appeared
                    to be, it was the face of a friend to
                        me, one that I was certain I had known long, long ago, and
                    moreover one that I must have loved in some distant time, for my whole soul
                    seemed to yearn towards that indistinct haze where smiled the fully recognised
                    yet unfamiliar countenance. This strange sensation lasted but a few seconds, for
                    Heliobas suddenly dropped my hand. The room swam round me; the walls seemed to
                    rock; then everything steadied and came right again, and all was as usual, only
                    I was amazed and bewildered.
                “What does it mean?” I murmured.
                “It means the simplest thing in nature,” replied Heliobas quietly, “namely that
                    your soul and mine are for some reason or other placed on the same circle of
                    electricity. Nothing more nor less. Therefore we must serve each other. Whatever
                    I do for you, you have it in your power to repay me amply for hereafter.”
                I met the steady glance of his keen eyes, and a
                    sense of some indestructible force within me gave me a bright courage.
                “Decide for me as you please,” I answered fearlessly. “I trust you completely,
                    though I do not know why I do so.”
                “You will know before long. You are satisfied of the fact that my touch can
                    influence you?”
                “Yes; most thoroughly.”
                “Very well. All other explanations, if you desire them, shall be given you in due
                    time. In the power I possess over you and some others, there is neither
                    mesmerism nor magnetism—nothing but a purely scientific fact which can be
                    clearly and reasonably proved and demonstrated. But till you are thoroughly
                    restored to health, we will defer all discussion. And now, mademoiselle, permit
                    me to escort you to the door. I shall expect you to-morrow.”
                Together we left the beautiful room in which
                    this interview had taken place, and crossed the hall. As we approached the
                    entrance, Heliobas turned towards me and said with a smile:
                “Did not the manœuvres of my street-door astonish you?”
                “A little,” I confessed.
                “It is very simple. The button you touch outside is electric; it opens the door
                    and at the same time rings the bell in my study, thus informing me of a visitor.
                    When the visitor steps across the threshold he treads, whether he will or no, on
                    another apparatus, which closes the door behind him and rings another bell in my
                    page's room, who immediately comes to me for orders. You see how easy? and from
                    within it is managed in almost the same manner.”
                And he touched a handle similar to the one outside, and the door opened
                    instantly. Heliobas held out his hand—that hand which a few minutes
                        previously had exercised such strange
                    authority over me.
                “Good-bye, mademoiselle. You are not afraid of me now?”
                I laughed. “I do not think I was ever really afraid of you,” I said. “If I was, I
                    am not so any longer. You have promised health, and that promise is sufficient
                    to give me entire courage.”
                “That is well,” said Heliobas. “Courage and hope in themselves are the precursors
                    of physical and mental energy. Remember to-morrow at five, and do not keep late
                    hours to-night. I should advise you to be in bed by ten at the latest.”
                I agreed to this, and we shook hands and parted. I walked blithely along, back to
                    the Avenue du Midi, where, on my arrival indoors, I found a letter from Mrs.
                    Everard. She wrote “in haste” to give me the names of some friends of hers whom
                    she had discovered, through the “American Register,” to be staying at the Grand Hotel. She begged me to call upon them,
                    and enclosed two letters of introduction for the purpose. She concluded her
                    epistle by saying:
                
                    
                        
                            
                                “Raffaello Cellini has been invisible ever since your departure,
                                    but our inimitable waiter, Alphonse, says he is very busy
                                    finishing a picture for the Salon—something that we have never
                                    seen. I shall intrude myself into his studio on some pretence or
                                    other, and will then let you know all about it. In the meantime,
                                    believe me,
                                “Your ever devoted friend, “AMY.”
                            
                        
                    
                
                I answered this letter, and then spent a pleasant evening at the Pension, chatting sociably with Madame Denise and
                    another cheery little Frenchwoman, a day governess, who boarded there, and who
                    had no end of droll experiences to relate, her enviable temperament being always
                    to see the humorous side of life. I thoroughly
                    enjoyed her sparkling chatter and her expressive gesticulations, and we all
                    three made ourselves merry till bedtime. Acting on the advice of Heliobas, I
                    retired early to my room, where a warm bath had been prepared in compliance with
                    my orders. I uncorked the glass tube No. 1, and poured the colourless fluid it
                    contained into the water, which immediately bubbled gently as though beginning
                    to boil. After watching it for a minute or two, and observing that this seething
                    movement steadily continued, I undressed quickly and stepped in. Never shall I
                    forget the exquisite sensation I experienced! I can only describe it as the poor
                    little Doll's Dressmaker in “Our Mutual Friend” described her angel visitants
                    her “blessed children,” who used to come and “take her up and make
                        her light.” If my body had been composed of no grosser matter than fire
                    and air, I could not have felt more weightless, more 
                        buoy-
                        buoyant
                     ant, more thoroughly exhilarated
                    than when, at the end of the prescribed five minutes, I got out of that
                    marvellous bath of healing! As I prepared for bed, I noticed that the bubbling
                    of the water had entirely ceased; but this was easy of comprehension, for if it
                    had contained electricity, as I supposed, my body had absorbed it by contact,
                    which would account for the movement being stilled. I now took the second little
                    phial, and prepared it as I had been told. This time the fluid was motionless. I
                    noticed it was very faintly tinged with amber. I drank it off—it was perfectly
                    tasteless. Once in bed, I seemed to have no power to think any more—my eyes
                    closed readily—the slumber of a year-old child, as Heliobas had said, came upon
                    me with resistless and sudden force, and I remembered no more.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VII.
                ZARA AND PRINCE IVAN.
                THE sun poured brilliantly into my room when I awoke the
                    next morning. I was free from all my customary aches and pains, and a delightful
                    sense of vigour and elasticity pervaded my frame. I rose at once, and, looking
                    at my watch, found to my amazement that it was twelve o'clock in the day!
                    Hastily throwing on my dressing-gown, I rang the hell, and the servant
                    appeared.
                “Is it actually mid-day?” I asked her. “Why did you not call me?”
                The girl smiled apologetically.
                
                “I did knock at mademoiselle's door, but she gave me no answer. Madame Denise
                    came up also, and entered the room; but seeing mademoiselle in so sound a sleep
                    she said it was a pity to disturb mademoiselle.”
                Which statement good Madame Denise, toiling upstairs just then with difficulty,
                    she being stout and short of breath, confirmed with many smiling nods of her
                    head.
                “Breakfast shall be served at the instant,” she said, rubbing her fat hands
                    together; “but to disturb you when you slept—ah, Heaven! the sleep of an
                    infant—I could not do it! I should have been wicked!”
                I thanked her for her care of me; I could have kissed her, she looked so
                    motherly, and kind, and altogether lovable. And I felt so merry and well! She
                    and the servant retired to prepare my coffee, and I proceeded to make my toilette. As I brushed out my hair I heard
                    the sound of a violin. Some one was playing next door. I listened, and
                    recognized a famous Beethoven Concerto. The unseen musician played brilliantly
                    and withal tenderly, both touch and tone reminding me of some beautiful verses
                    in a book of poems I had recently read, called “Love-letters by a Violinist,” in
                    which the poet talks of his “loved Amati,” and says: 
                        
                            “I prayed my prayer. I wove unto my song
                            Fervour, and joy, and mystery, and the bleak,
                            The wan despair that words could never speak,
                            I prayed as if my spirit did belong
                            To some old master who was wise and strong,
                            Because he lov'd and suffered, and was weak.
                        
                        
                            “I trill'd the notes, and curb'd them to a sigh,
                            And when they faltered most, I made them leap
                            Fierce from my bow, as from a summer sleep
                            A young she devil. I was fired thereby
                            To bolder efforts—and a muffled cry
                            Came from the strings as if a saint did weep.
                        
                        
                        
                            “I changed the theme. I dallied with the bow
                            Just time enough to fit it to a mesh
                            Of merry tones, and drew it back afresh,
                            To talk of truth, and constancy, and woe,
                            And life, and love, and madness, and the glow
                            Of my own soul which burns into my flesh.”
                        
                    
                All my love for music welled freshly up in my heart; I, who had felt disinclined
                    to touch the piano for months, now longed to try my strength again upon the
                    familiar and responsive key-board. For a piano has never been a mere piano to
                    me; it is a friend who answers to my thought, and whose notes meet my fingers
                    with caressing readiness and obedience.
                Breakfast came, and I took it with great relish. Then, to pass the day, I went
                    out and called on Mrs. Everard's friends, Mr. and Mrs. Challoner and their
                    daughters. I found them very agreeable, with that easy bonhomie and lack of stiffness that distinguishes the best
                    Americans. Finding out through Mrs. Everard's letter that I was an “artiste,” they at once concluded I must need support and patronage, and with impulsive
                    large-heartedness were beginning to plan as to the best means of organizing a
                    concert for me. I was taken by surprise at this, for I had general!y found the
                    exact reverse of this sympathy among English patrons of art, who were never
                    tired of murmuring the usual platitudes about there being “so many musicians,”
                    “music was overdone,” “improvising was not understood or cared for,” etc.,
                    etc.
                But these agreeable Americans, as soon as they discovered that I had not come for
                    any professional reason to Paris, but only to consult a physician about my
                    health, were actually disappointed.
                “Oh, we shall persuade you to give a recital some time!” persisted the handsome
                    smiling mother of the family. “I know lots of people in Paris. We'll get it up
                    for you!”
                I protested, half laughing, that I had no idea
                    of the kind, but they were incorrigibly generous.
                “Nonsense!” said Mrs. Challoner, arranging her diamond rings on her pretty white
                    hand with pardonable pride. “Brains don't go for nothing in our
                    country. As soon as you are fixed up in health, we'll give you a grand soirée in Paris, and we'll work up all our folks in
                    the place. Don't tell me you are not as glad of dollars as any one of us.”
                “Dollars are very good,” I admitted, “but real appreciation is far better.”
                “Well, you shall have both from us,” said Mrs. Challoner. “And now, will you stop
                    to luncheon?”
                I accepted this invitation, given as it was with the most friendly affability,
                    and enjoyed myself very much.
                “You don't look ill,” said the eldest Miss Challoner to me, later
                    on. “I don't see that you want a physician.”
                “Oh, I am getting much better now,” I replied;
                    “and I hope soon to be quite well.”
                “Who's your doctor?”
                I hesitated. Somehow the name of Heliobas would not come to my lips. Fortunately
                    Mrs. Challoner diverted her daughter's attention at this moment by the
                    announcement that a dressmaker was waiting to see her; and in the face of such
                    an important visit, no one remembered to ask me again the name of my medical
                    adviser.
                I left the Grand Hotel in good time to prepare for my second visit to Heliobas.
                    As I was going there to dinner I made a slightly dressy toilette, if a black
                    silk robe relieved with a cluster of pale pink roses can be called dressy. This
                    time I drove to the Hôtel Mars, dismissing the coachman, however, before
                    ascending the steps. The door opened and closed as usual, and the first person I
                    saw in the hall was Heliobas himself, seated in one of the easy-chairs, reading a volume of Plato. He rose and
                    greeted me cordially. Before I could speak a word, he said:
                “You need not tell me that you slept well. I see it in your eyes and face. You
                    feel better?”
                My gratitude to him was so great that I found it difficult to express my thanks.
                    Tears rushed to my eyes, yet I tried to smile, though I could not speak. He saw
                    my emotion, and continued kindly:
                “I am as thankful as you can be for the cure which I see has begun, and will soon
                    be effected. My sister is waiting to see you. Will you come to her room?”
                We ascended a flight of stairs thickly carpeted, and bordered on each side by
                    tropical ferns and flowers, placed in exquisitely painted china pots and vases.
                    I heard the distant singing of many birds mingled with the ripple and splash of
                    waters. We reached a landing where the
                    afterglow of the set sun streamed through a high oriel window of richly stained
                    glass. Turning towards the left, Heliobas drew aside the folds of some azure
                    satin hangings, and calling in a low voice “Zara!” motioned me to enter. I
                    stepped into a spacious and lofty apartment where the light seemed to soften and
                    merge into many shades of opaline radiance and delicacy—a room the beauty of
                    which would at any other time have astonished and delighted me, but which now
                    appeared as nothing beside the surpassing loveliness of the woman who occupied
                    it. Never shall I behold again any face or form so divinely beautiful! She was
                    about the medium height of women, but her small finely shaped head was set upon
                    so slender and proud a throat that she appeared taller than she actually was.
                    Her figure was most exquisitely rounded and proportioned, and she came across
                    the room to give me greeting with a sort of gliding graceful movement, like that of a stately swan floating on
                    calm sunlit water. Her complexion was transparently clear—most purely white,
                    most delicately rosy. Her eyes—large, luminous and dark as night, fringed with
                    long silky black lashes—looked like 
                        “Fairy lakes, where tender thoughts
                        Swam softly to and fro.”
                     Her rich black hair was arranged à la
                        Marguerite, and hung down in one long loose thick braid that
                    nearly reached the end of her dress; and she was attired in a robe of deep old
                    gold Indian silk as soft as cashmere, which was gathered in round her waist by
                    an antique belt of curious jewel-work, in which rubies and turquoises seemed to
                    be thickly studded. On her bosom shone a strange gem, the colour and form of
                    which I could not determine. It was never the same for two minutes together. It
                    glowed with many various hues—now bright
                    crimson, now lightning-blue, sometimes deepening into a rich purple or tawny
                    orange. Its lustre was intense, almost dazzling to the eye. Its beautiful wearer
                    gave me welcome with a radiant smile and a few cordial words, and drawing me by
                    the hand to the low couch she had just vacated, made me sit down beside her.
                    Heliobas had disappeared.
                “And so,” said Zara—how soft and full of music was her voice!—“so you are one of
                    Casimir's patients? I cannot help considering that you are fortunate in this,
                    for I know my brother's power. If he says he will cure you, you may be sure he
                    means it. And you are already better, are you not?”
                “Much better,” I said, looking earnestly into the lovely star-like eyes that
                    regarded me with such interest and friendliness. “Indeed, to-day I have felt so
                    well, that I cannot realize ever having been ill.”
                
                “I am very glad,” said Zara. “I know you are a musician, and I think there can be
                    no bitterer fate than for one belonging to your art to be incapacitated from
                    performance of work by some physical obstacle. Poor grand old Beethoven! Can
                    anything be more pitiful to think of than his deafness? Yet how splendidly he
                    bore up against it! And Chopin, too—so delicate in health that he was too often
                    morbid even in his music. Strength is needed to accomplish great things—the
                    double strength of body and soul.”
                “Are you, too, a musician?” I inquired.
                “No. I love music passionately, and I play a little on the organ in our private
                    chapel; but I follow a different art altogether. I am a mere imitator of noble
                    form—I am a sculptress.”
                “You?” I said in some wonder, looking at the very small beautifully formed white
                    hand that lay passively on the edge of the
                    couch beside me. “You can make statues in marble like Michael Angelo?”
                “Like Angelo?” murmured Zara; and she lowered her brilliant eyes with a
                    reverential gravity. “No one in these modem days can approach the immortal
                    splendour of that great master. He must have known heroes and talked with gods
                    to be able to hew out of the rocks such perfection of shape and attitude as his
                    ‘David.’ Alas! my strength of brain and hand is mere child's play compared to
                    what has been done in sculpture, and what will yet be
                    done; still, I love the work for its own sake, and I am always trying to render
                    a resemblance of—”
                Here she broke off abruptly, and a deep blush suffused her cheeks. Then, looking
                    up suddenly, she took my hand impulsively and pressed it.
                “Be my friend,” she said, with a caressing inflection in her rich voice. “I have
                    no friends of my own sex, and I wish to love
                    you. My brother has always had so much distrust of the companionship of women
                    for me. You know his theories; and he has always asserted that the sphere of
                    thought in which I have lived all my life is so widely apart from those in which
                    other women exist—that nothing but unhappiness for me could come out of
                    associating us together. When he told me yesterday that you were coming to see
                    me to-day, I knew he must have discovered something in your nature that was not
                    antipathetic to mine; otherwise he would not have brought you to me. Do you
                    think you can like me?—perhaps love me after a little while?”
                It would have been a cold heart indeed that would not have responded to such a
                    speech as this, uttered with the pleading prettiness of a loving child. Besides,
                    I had warmed to her from the first moment I had touched her hand; and I was
                    overjoyed to think that she was willing to
                    elect me as a friend. I therefore replied to her words by putting my arm
                    affectionately round her waist and kissing her. My beautiful, tender Zara! How
                    innocently happy she seemed to be thus embraced! and how gently her fragrant
                    lips met mine in that sisterly caress! She leaned her dark head for a moment on
                    my shoulder, and the mysterious jewel on her breast flashed into a weird hue
                    like the light of a stormy sunset.
                “And now we have drawn up, signed, and sealed our compact of friendship,” she
                    said gaily, “will you come and see my studio? There is nothing in it that
                    deserves to last, I think; still, one has patience with a child when he builds
                    his brick houses, and you must have equal patience with me. Come!”
                And she led the way through her lovely room, which I now noticed was full of
                    delicate statuary, fine paintings, and exquisite embroidery, while flowers
                        were everywhere in abundance. Lifting the
                    hangings at the further end of the apartment, she passed, I following, into a
                    lofty studio, filled with all the appurtenances of the sculptor's art. Here and
                    there were the usual spectral effects which are always suggested to the mind by
                    unfinished plaster models—an arm in one place, a head in another; a torso, or a
                    single hand, protruding ghost-like from a fold of dark drapery. At the very end
                    of the room stood a large erect figure, the outlines of which could but dimly be
                    seen through its linen coverings; and to this work, whatever it was, Zara did
                    not appear desirous of attracting my attention. She led me to one particular
                    corner; and, throwing aside a small crimson velvet curtain, said:
                “This is the last thing I have finished in marble. I call it ‘Approaching
                    Evening.’”
                I stood silently before the statue, lost in admiration. I could not conceive
                        it possible that the fragile little hand
                    of the woman who stood beside me could have executed such a perfect work. She
                    had depicted “Evening” as a beautiful nude female figure in the act of stepping
                    forward on tip-toe; the eyes were half closed, and the sweet mouth slightly
                    parted in a dreamily serious smile. The right forefinger was laid lightly on the
                    lips, as though suggesting silence; and in the left hand was loosely clasped a
                    bunch of poppies. That was all. But the poetry and force of the whole conception
                    as carried out in the statue was marvellous.
                “Do you like it?” asked Zara, half timidly.
                “Like it!” I exclaimed. “It is lovely—wonderful! It is worthy to rank with the
                    finest Italian masterpieces.”
                “Oh no!” remonstrated Zara; “no, indeed! When the great Italian sculptors lived
                    and worked—ah! one may say with the
                    Scriptures, ‘There were giants in those days.’ Giants—veritable ones; and we
                    modernists are the pigmies. We can only see Art now through the eyes of others
                    who came before us. We cannot create anything new. We look at a painting through
                    Raphael; sculpture through Angelo; poetry through Shakespeare; philosophy
                    through Plato. It is all done for us; we are copyists. The world is getting
                    old—how glorious to have lived when it was young! But nowadays the very children
                    are blasé.”
                “And you—are not you blasé to talk like that,
                    with your genius and all the world before you?” I asked laughingly, slipping my
                    arm through hers. “Come, confess!”
                Zara looked at me gravely.
                “I sincerely hope the world is not all before me,” she said; “I
                    should be very sorry if I thought so. To have the world all before you in the
                    general acceptation of that term means to live
                    long, to barter whatever genius you have for gold, to hear the fulsome and
                    unmeaning flatteries of the ignorant, who are as ready with condemnation as
                    praise—to be envied and maligned by those less lucky than you are. Heaven forbid
                    me from such a fate!”
                She spoke with earnestness and solemnity; then dropping the curtain before her
                    statue, turned away. I was admiring the vine-wreathed head of a young Bacchante
                    that stood on a pedestal near me, and was about to ask Zara what subject she had
                    chosen for the large veiled figure at the farthest end of her studio, when we
                    were interrupted by the entrance of the little Greek page whom I had seen on my
                    first visit to the house. He saluted us both, and addressing himself to Zara,
                    said:
                “Monsieur le Comte desires me to tell you, madame, that Prince Ivan will be
                    present at dinner.”
                Zara looked somewhat vexed; but the shade of
                    annoyance flitted away from her fair face like a passing shadow, as she replied
                    quietly:
                “Tell Monsieur le Comte, my brother, that I shall be happy to receive Prince
                    Ivan.”
                The page bowed deferentially and departed. Zara turned round, and I saw the jewel
                    on her breast flashing with a steely glitter like the blade of a sharp
                    sword.
                “I do not like Prince Ivan myself,” she said; “but he is a singularly brave and
                    resolute man, and Casimir has some reason for admitting him to our
                    companionship. Though I greatly doubt if—” Here a flood of music broke upon our
                    ears like the sound of a distant orchestra. Zara looked at me and smiled.
                    “Dinner is ready!” she announced; “but you must not imagine that we keep a band
                    of music to play us to our table in triumph. It is simply a musical instrument
                    worked by electricity that imitates the orchestra; both Casimir and I prefer it to a gong!” And slipping her arm
                    affectionately through mine, she drew me from the studio into the passage, and
                    together we went down the staircase into a large dining-room, rich with
                    oil-paintings and carved oak, where Heliobas awaited us. Close by him stood
                    another gentleman, who was introduced to me as Prince Ivan Petroffsky. He was a
                    fine-looking, handsome-featured young man, of about thirty, tall and
                    broad-shouldered, though beside the commanding stature of Heliobas, his figure
                    did not show to so much advantage as it might have done beside a less-imposing
                    contrast. He bowed to me with easy and courteous grace; but his deeply
                    reverential salute to Zara had something in it of that humility which a slave
                    might render to a queen. She bent her head slightly to answer, and still holding
                    me by the hand, moved to her seat at the bottom of the table, while her brother
                    took the head. My seat was at the right hand
                    of Heliobas, Prince Ivan's at the left, so that we directly faced each
                    other.
                There were two men-servants in attendance, dressed in dark livery, who waited
                    upon us with noiseless alacrity. The dinner was exceedingly choice; there was
                    nothing coarse or vulgar in the dishes—no great heavy joints swimming in thin
                    gravy à l'Anglaise; no tureens of unpalatable
                    sauce; no clumsy decanters filled with burning sherry or drowsy port. The table
                    itself was laid out in the most perfect taste with the finest Venetian glass and
                    old Dresden ware, in which tempting fruits gleamed amid clusters of glossy dark
                    leaves. Flowers in tall vases bloomed wherever they could be placed effectively;
                    and in the centre of the board a small fountain played, tinkling as it rose and
                    fell like a very faintly echoing fairy chime. The wines that were served to us
                    were most delicious, though their flavour was
                    quite unknown to me—one in especial, of a pale pink colour, that sparkled
                    slightly as it was poured into my glass, seemed to me a kind of nectar of the
                    gods, so soft it was to the palate. The conversation, at first somewhat
                    desultory, grew more concentrated as the time went on, though Zara spoke little
                    and seemed absorbed in her own thoughts more than once. The Prince, warmed with
                    the wine and the general good cheer, became witty and amusing in his
                    conversation; he was a man who had evidently seen a good deal of the world, and
                    was accustomed to take everything in life à la
                        bagatelle. He told us gay stories of his life in St. Petersburg;
                    of the pranks he had played in the Florentine Carnival; of his journey to the
                    American States, and his narrow escape from the matrimonial clutches of a Boston
                    heiress.
                Heliobas listened to him with a sort of indulgent kindness, only smiling now
                        and then at the preposterous puns the
                    young man would insist on making at every opportunity that presented itself.
                “You are a lucky fellow, Ivan,” he said at last. “You like the good things of
                    life, and you have got them all without any trouble on your own part. You are
                    one of those men who have absolutely nothing to wish for.”
                Prince Ivan frowned and pulled his dark moustache with no very satisfied air.
                “I am not so sure about that,” he returned. “No one is contented in this world, I
                    believe. There is always something left to desire, and the last thing longed for
                    always seems the most necessary to happiness.”
                “The truest philosophy,” said Heliobas. “is not to long for anything in
                    particular, but to accept everything as it comes, and find out the reason of it
                    coming.”
                “What do you mean by ‘the reason of its coming’?” questioned Prince Ivan. “Do you know, Casimir, I find you sometimes
                    as puzzling as Socrates.”
                “Socrates?—Socrates was as clear as a drop of morning dew, my dear fellow,”
                    replied Heliobas. “There was nothing puzzling about him. His remarks were all
                    true and trenchant—hitting smartly home to the heart like daggers plunged down
                    to the hilt. That was the worst of him—he was too clear—too honest—too
                    disdainful of opinions. Society does not love such men. What do I mean, you ask,
                    by accepting everything as it comes, and trying to find out the reason of its
                    coming? Why, I mean what I say. Each circumstance that happens to each one of us
                    brings its own special lesson and meaning—forms a link in the chain of our
                    existence. It seems nothing to you that you walk down a particular street at a
                    particular hour, and yet that slight action of yours may lead to a result you
                    wot not of. ‘Accept the hint of each
                    new experience,’ says the American imitator of Plato—Emerson. If this
                    advice is faithfully followed, we all have enough to occupy us busily from the
                    cradle to the grave.”
                Prince Ivan looked at Zara, who sat quietly thoughtful, only lifting her bright
                    eyes now and then to glance at her brother as he spoke.
                “I tell you,” he said, with sudden moroseness, “there are some hints that we
                    cannot accept—some circumstances that we must not yield to. Why should a man,
                    for instance, be subjected to an undeserved and bitter disappointment?”
                “Because,” said Zara, joining in the conversation for the first time, “he has
                    most likely desired what he is not fated to obtain.”
                The Prince bit his lips, and gave a forced laugh.
                “I know, madame, you are against me in all our arguments,” he observed, with some
                    bitterness in his tone. “As Casimir suggests,
                    I am a bad philosopher. I do not pretend to more than the ordinary attributes of
                    any ordinary man; it is fortunate, if I may be permitted to say so, that the
                    rest of the world's inhabitants are very like me, for if everyone reached to the
                    sublime heights of science and knowledge that you and your brother have
                    attained—”
                “The course of human destiny would run out, and Paradise would be an established
                    fact,” laughed Heliobas. “Come, Ivan! You are a true Epicurean. Have some more
                    wine, and a truce to discussions for the present.” And, beckoning to one of the
                    servants, he ordered the Prince's glass to be re-filled.
                Dessert was now served, and luscious fruits in profusion, including peaches,
                    bananas, plantains, green figs, melons, pine-apples, and magnificent grapes,
                    were offered for our choice. As I made a selection for my own plate, I became
                    aware of something soft rubbing itself gently
                    against my dress; and looking down, I saw the noble head and dark intelligent
                    eyes of my old acquaintance Leo, whom I had last met at Cannes. I gave an
                    exclamation of pleasure, and the dog, encouraged, stood up and laid a caressing
                    paw on my arm.
                “You know Leo, of course,” said Heliobas, turning to me. “He went to see
                    Raffaello while you were at Cannes. He is a wonderful animal—more valuable to me
                    than his weight in gold.”
                Prince Ivan, whose transient moodiness had passed away like a bad devil exorcised
                    by the power of good wine, joined heartily in the praise bestowed on this
                    four-footed friend of the family.
                “It was really through Leo,” he said, “that you were induced to follow out your
                    experiments in human electricity, Casimir, was it not?”
                “Yes,” replied Heliobas, calling the dog, who went to him immediately to be fondled. “I should never have been much
                    encouraged in my researches, had he not been at hand. I feared to
                    experimentalize much on my sister, she being young at the time—and women are
                    always frail of construction—but Leo was willing and ready to be a victim to
                    science, if necessary. Instead of a martyr he is a living triumph—are you not,
                    old boy?” he continued, stroking the silky coat of the animal, who responded
                    with a low bark of satisfaction.
                My curiosity was much excited by these remarks, and I said eagerly:
                “Will you tell me in what way Leo has been useful to you? I have a great
                    affection for dogs, and I never tire of hearing stories of their wonderful
                    intelligence.”
                “I will certainly tell you,” replied Heliobas. “To some people the story might
                    appear improbable, but it is perfectly true and at the same time simple of
                    comprehension. When I was a very young man,
                    younger than Prince Ivan, I absorbed myself in the study of electricity—its
                    wonderful powers, and its various capabilities. From the consideration of
                    electricity in the different forms by which it is known to civilized Europe, I
                    began to look back through history, to what are ignorantly called ‘the dark
                    ages,’ but which might more justly be termed the enlightened youth of the world.
                    I found that the force of electricity was well understood by the ancients—better
                    understood by them, in fact, than it is by the scientists of our day. The ‘MENE,
                    MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN’ that glittered in unearthly characters on the wall at
                    Belshazzar's feast was written by electricity; and the Chaldean kings and
                    priests understood a great many secrets of another form of electric force which
                    the world to-day scoffs at and almost ignores—I mean human electricity, which we
                    all possess, but which we do not cultivate within us. When once I realized
                        the existence of the fact of human
                    electric force, I applied the discovery to myself, and spared no pains to foster
                    and educate whatever germ of this power lay within me. I succeeded with more
                    ease and celerity than I had imagined possible. At the time I pursued these
                    studies, Leo here was quite a young dog, full of the clumsy playfulness and
                    untrained ignorance of a Newfoundland puppy. One day I was very busy reading an
                    interesting Sanskrit scroll which treated of ancient medicines and remedies, and
                    Leo was gambolling in his awkward way about the room playing with an old slipper
                    and worrying it with his teeth. The noise he made irritated and disturbed me,
                    and I rose in my chair and called him by name, somewhat angrily. He paused in
                    his game and looked up—his eyes met mine exactly. His head drooped; he shivered
                    uneasily, whined, and lay down motionless. He never stirred once from the
                    position he had taken, till I gave him
                    permission—and remember, he was untrained. This strange behaviour led me to try
                    other experiments with him. and all succeeded. I gradually led him up to the
                    point I desired—that is, I forced him to receive my thought and act upon
                        it, as far as canine capabilities could do, and he never once failed.
                    It is sufficient for me to strongly will him to do a certain thing,
                    and I can convey that command of mine to his brain without uttering a single
                    word, and he will obey me.”
                I suppose I showed surprise and incredulity in my face, for Heliobas smiled at me
                    and continued:
                “I will put him to the proof at any time you like. If you wish him to fetch
                    anything that he is physically able to carry, and will write the name whatever
                    it is on a slip of paper, just for me to know what you require, I guarantee
                    Leo's obedience.”
                I looked at Zara, and she laughed.
                “It seems like magic to you, does it not?” she
                    said; “but I assure you it is quite true.”
                “I am bound to admit,” said Prince Ivan, “that I once doubted both Leo and his
                    master, but I am quite converted. Here, mademoiselle,” he continued, handing me
                    a leaf from his pocket-book and a pencil—“write down something that you want;
                    only don't send the dog to Italy on an errand just now, as we want him back
                    before we adjourn to the drawing-room.”
                I remembered that I had left an embroidered handkerchief on the couch in Zara's
                    room, and I wrote this down on the paper, which I passed to Heliobas. He glanced
                    at it and tore it up. Leo was indulging himself with a bone under the table, but
                    came instantly to his master's call. Heliobas took the dog's head between his
                    two hands, and gazed steadily into the grave brown eyes that regarded him with equal steadiness. This interchange of looks
                    lasted but a few seconds. Leo left the room, walking with an unruffled and
                    dignified pace, while we waited his return—Heliobas and Zara with indifference,
                    Prince Ivan with amusement, and I with interest and expectancy. Two or three
                    minutes elapsed, and the dog returned with the same majestic demeanour, carrying
                    between his teeth my handkerchief. He came straight to me and placed it in my
                    hand; shook himself, wagged his tail, and conveying a perfectly human expression
                    of satisfaction into his face, went under the table again to his bone. I was
                    utterly amazed, but at the same time convinced. I had not seen the dog since my
                    arrival in Paris, and it was impossible for him to have known where to find my
                    handkerchief, or to recognize it as being mine unless through the means Heliobas
                    had explained.
                “Can you command human beings so?” I asked,
                    with a slight tremor of nervousness.
                “Not all,” returned Heliobas quietly. “In fact, I may say, very few. Those who
                    are on my own circle of power I can, naturally, draw to or repel from me; but
                    those who are not, have to be treated by different means. Sometimes cases occur
                    in which persons, at first not on my circle, are irresistibly
                    attracted to it by a force not mine. Sometimes, in order to perform a cure, I
                    establish a communication between myself and a totally alien sphere of thought;
                    and to do this is a long and laborious effort. But it can be done.”
                “Then, if it can be done, said Prince Ivan, “why do you not accomplish it for
                    me?”
                “Because you are being forcibly drawn towards me without any effort on my part,”
                    replied Heliobas, with one of his steady, keen looks, “For what motive I cannot
                    at present determine; but I shall know as soon
                    as you touch the extreme edge of my circle. You are a long way off it yet, but
                    you are coming in spite of yourself, Ivan.”
                The Prince fidgeted restlessly in his chair, and toyed with the fruit on his
                    plate in a nervous manner.
                “If I did not know you to be an absolutely truthful and honorable man, Casimir,”
                    he said, “I should think you were trying to deceive me. But I have seen what you
                    can do, therefore I must believe you. Still I confess I do not follow you in
                    your circle theory.”
                “To begin with,” returned Heliobas, “the Universe is a circle. Everything is
                    circular, from the motion of planets down to the human eye, or the cup of a
                    flower, or a drop of dew. My ‘circle theory,’ as you call it,
                    applied to a human electric force, is very simple; but I have proved it to be
                    mathematically correct. Every human being is provided internally
                    and externally with a certain amount of electricity, which is as necessary to existence as the life-blood
                    to the heart or fresh air to the lungs. Internally it is the germ of a soul or
                    spirit, and is placed there to be either cultivated or neglected as suits the
                        will of man. It is indestructible; yet, if neglected, it
                    remains always a germ; and at the death of the body it inhabits, goes elsewhere
                    to seek another chance of development. If, on the contrary, its growth is
                    fostered by a persevering, resolute WILL, it becomes a spiritual creature,
                    glorious and supremely powerful, for which a new, brilliant, and endless
                    existence commences when its clay chrysalis perishes. So much for the
                        internal electrical force. The external binds us
                    all by fixed laws, with which our wills have nothing whatever to do. Each one of
                    us walks the earth encompassed by an invisible electric ring—wide or narrow
                    according to our capabilities. Sometimes our rings meet and form one, as in the
                    case of two 
                        abso-
                        absolutely
                     lutely sympathetic souls, who labour
                    and love together with perfect faith in each other. Sometimes they clash, and
                    storm ensues, as when a strong antipathy between persons causes them almost to
                    loathe each other's presence. All these human electric rings are capable of
                    attraction and repulsion. If a man, during his courtship of a woman, experiences
                    once or twice a sudden instinctive feeling that there is something in her nature
                    not altogether what he expected or desired, let him break off the attachment;
                    for the electric circles do not combine, and nothing but unhappiness would come
                    from forcing a union. I would say the same thing to a woman. If my advice were
                    followed, how many unhappy marriages would be avoided! But you have tempted me
                    to talk too much, Ivan. I see the ladies wish to adjourn. Shall we go to the
                    smoking-room for a little, and then join them in the drawing-room
                    afterwards?”
                
                We all rose.
                “Well,” said the Prince gaily, as he prepared to follow his host, “I realize one
                    thing which gives me pleasure, Casimir. If in truth I am being attracted towards
                        your electric circle, I hope I shall reach it soon, as I shall
                    then, I suppose, be more en rapport with
                    madame your sister.”
                Zara's luminous eyes surveyed him with a sort of queenly pity and
                    forbearance.
                “By the time you arrive at that goal, Prince,” she said calmly, “it
                    is most probable that I shall have departed.”
                And with one arm thrown round my waist, she saluted him gravely, and left the
                    room with me beside her.
                “Would you like to see the chapel on your way to the drawing-room?” she asked, as
                    we crossed the hall.
                I gladly accepted this proposition, and Zara took me down a flight of marble
                    steps, which terminated in a handsomely-carved oaken door. Pushing this
                        softly open, she made the sign of the
                    cross and sank on her knees. I did the same, and then looked with reverential
                    wonder at the loveliness and serenity of the place. It was small, but lofty, and
                    the painted dome-shaped roof was supported by eight light marble columns,
                    wreathed with minutely-carved garlands of vine-leaves. The chapel was fitted up
                    in accordance with the rites of the Catholic religion, and before the High Altar
                    and Tabernacle burned seven roseate lamps, which were suspended from the roof by
                    slender gilt chains. A large crucifix, bearing a most sorrowful and pathetic
                    figure of Christ, was hung on one side of the walls; and from a corner altar,
                    shining with soft blue and silver, an exquisite statue of the Madonna and Child
                    were dimly seen from where we knelt. A few minutes passed and Zara rose. Looking
                    towards the Tabernacle, her lips moved as though murmuring a prayer; and then,
                    taking me by the hand, she led me gently out.
                    The heavy oaken door swung gently behind us as we ascended the chapel steps and
                    re-entered the great hall.
                “You are a Catholic, are you not?” then said Zara to me.
                “Yes,” I answered; “but—”
                “But you have doubts sometimes, you would say? Of course. One always doubts when
                    one sees the dissensions, the hypocrisies, the false pretences and wickedness of
                    many professing Christians. But Christ and His religion are living facts, in
                    spite of the suicide of souls He would gladly save. You must ask Casimir some
                    day about these things; he will clear up all the knotty points for you. Here we
                    are at the drawing-room door.”
                It was the same room into which I had first been shown. Zara seated herself, and
                    made me occupy a low chair beside her.
                “Tell me,” she said, “can you not come here and
                    stay with me while you are under Casimir's treatment?”
                I thought of Madame Denise and her Pension.
                “I wish I could,” I said; “but I fear my friends would want to know where I am
                    staying, and explanations would have to be given, which I do not feel disposed
                    to enter upon.”
                “Why,” went on Zara quietly, “you have only to say that you are being attended by
                    a Dr. Casimir, who wishes to have you under his own supervision, and that you
                    are therefore staying in his house under the chaperonage of his sister.”
                I laughed at the idea of Zara playing the chaperon, and told her she was far too
                    young and beautiful to enact that character.
                “Do you know how old I am?” she asked with a slight smile.
                I guessed seventeen, or at any rate not more than twenty.
                
                “I am thirty-eight,” said Zara.
                Thirty-eight! Impossible! I would not believe it. I could not. I laughed
                    scornfully at such an absurdity, looking at her as she sat there a perfect model
                    of youthful grace and loveliness, with her lustrous eyes and rose-tinted
                    complexion.
                “You may doubt me if you choose,” she said, still smiling; “but I have told you
                    the truth. I am thirty-eight years of age according to the world's counting.
                    What I am, measured by another standard of time, matters not just now. You see I
                    look young, and what is more, I am young. I enjoy my youth. I hear that women of
                    society at thirty-eight are often faded and blasé—what a pity it is that they do not understand the first
                    laws of self-preservation! But to resume what I was saying, you know now that I
                    am quite old enough in the eyes of the world to chaperon you or anybody. You had
                    better arrange to stay here. Casimir asked me
                    to settle the matter with you.”
                As she spoke, Heliobas and Prince Ivan entered. The latter looked flushed and
                    excited—Heliobas was calm and stately as usual. He addressed himself to me at
                    once.
                “I have ordered my carriage, mademoiselle, to take you back this evening to the
                    Avenue du Midi. If you will do as Zara tells you, and explain to your friends
                    the necessity there is for your being under the personal supervision of your
                    doctor, you will find everything will arrange itself very naturally. And the
                    sooner you come here the better—in fact, Zara will expect you here to-morrow
                    early in the afternoon. I may rely upon you?”
                He spoke with a certain air of command, evidently expecting no resistance on my
                    part. Indeed, why should I resist? Already I loved Zara, and wished to be more
                    in her company; and then, most probably, my
                    complete restoration to health would be more successfully and quickly
                    accomplished if I were actually in the house of the man who had promised to cure
                    me. Therefore I replied:
                “I will do as you wish, monsieur. Having placed myself in your hands, I must
                    obey. In this particular case,” I added, looking at Zara, “obedience is very
                    agreeable to me.”
                Heliobas smiled and seemed satisfied. He then took a small goblet from a
                    side-table and left the room. Returning, however, almost immediately with the
                    cup filled to the brim, he said, handing it to me:
                “Drink this—it is your dose for to-night; and then you will go home, and straight
                    to bed.”
                I drank it off at once. It was delicious in flavour—like very fine Chianti.
                “Have you no soothing draught for me?” said Prince Ivan, who had been turning over a volume of photographs in a sullenly
                    abstracted sort of way.
                “No,” replied Heliobas, with a keen glance at him; “the draught fitted for your
                    present condition might soothe you too thoroughly.”
                The Prince looked at Zara, but she was mute. She had taken a piece of silk
                    embroidery from a work-basket near her, and was busily employed with it.
                    Heliobas advanced and laid his hand on the young man's arm.
                “Sing to us Ivan,” he said, in a kind tone. “Sing us one of your wild Russian
                    airs—Zara loves them, and this young lady would like to hear your voice before
                    she goes.”
                The Prince hesitated, and then with another glance at Zara's bent head, went to
                    the piano. He had a brilliant touch, and accompanied himself with great taste
                    and delicacy; but his voice was truly magnificent—a baritone of deep and
                        mellow quality, sonorous, and at the same
                    time tender. He sang a French rendering of a Sclavonic love-song, which, as
                    nearly as I can translate it into English, ran as follows:
                
                    
                        “As the billows fling shells on the shore,
                        As the sun poureth light on the sea,
                        As a lark on the wing scatters song to the spring,
                        So rushes my love to thee.
                    
                    
                        “As the ivy clings close to the tower,
                        As the dew lieth deep in a flower,
                        As the shadow to light, as the day unto night,
                        So clings my wild soul to thee!
                    
                    
                        “As the moon glitters coldly alone,
                        Above earth on her cloud-woven throne,
                        As the rocky-hound cave repulses a wave,
                        So thy anger repulseth me.
                    
                    
                        “As the bitter black frost of a night
                        Slays the roses with pitiless might,
                        As a sharp dagger-thrust hurls a king to the dust,
                        So thy cruelty murdereth me.
                    
                    
                        “Yet in spite of thy queenly disdain,
                        Thou art seared by my passion and pain;
                        Thou shalt hear me repeat, till I die for it sweet!
                        ‘I love thee! I dare to love thee!’”
                    
                
                
                He ended abruptly and with passion, and rose from the piano directly.
                I was enthusiastic in my admiration of the song and of the splendid voice which
                    had given it utterance, and the Prince seemed almost grateful for the praise
                    accorded him both by Heliobas and myself.
                The page entered to announce that “the carriage was waiting for mademoiselle,”
                    and I prepared to leave. Zara kissed me affectionately, and whispering, “Come
                    early to-morrow,” made a graceful salute to Prince Ivan, and left the room
                    immediately.
                Heliobas then offered me his arm to take me to the carriage. Prince Ivan
                    accompanied us. As the hall-door opened in its usual noiseless manner, I
                    perceived an elegant light brougham drawn by a pair of black horses, who were
                    giving the coachman a great deal of trouble by the fretting and spirited manner
                    in which they pawed the stones and pranced.
                    Before descending the steps I shook hands with Heliobas, and thanked him for the
                    pleasant evening I had passed.
                “We will try to make all your time with us pass as pleasantly,” he returned.
                    “Good-night! What, Ivan,” as he perceived the Prince attiring himself in his
                    great coat and hat, “are you also going?”
                “Yes, I am off,” he replied, with a kind of forced gaiety; “I am bad company for
                    anyone to-night, and I won't inflict myself upon you, Casimir. Au revoir! I will
                    put mademoiselle into the carriage if she will permit me.”
                We went down the steps together, Heliobas watching us from the open door. As the
                    Prince assisted me into the brougham, he whispered:
                “Are you one of them?”
                I looked at him in bewilderment.
                “One of them!” I repeated. “What do you mean?”
                
                “Never mind,” he muttered impatiently, as he made a pretence of covering me with
                    the fur rugs inside the carriage; “if you are not now, you will be, or Zara
                    would not have kissed you. If you ever have the chance, ask her to think of me
                    at my best. Good-night!”
                I was touched and a little sorry for him. I held out my hand in silence. He
                    pressed it hard, and calling to the coachman, “36, Avenue du Midi,” stood on the
                    pavement bareheaded, looking singularly pale and grave in the starlight, as the
                    carriage rolled swiftly away, and the door of the Hôtel Mars closed.
            
            
                
                CHAPTER VIII.
                A SYMPHONY IN THE AIR.
                WITHIN a very short time I became a temporary resident in
                    the house of Heliobas, and felt myself to be perfectly at home there. I had
                    explained to Madame Denise the cause of my leaving her comfortable Pension, and she had fully approved of my being
                    under a physician's personal care in order to ensure rapid recovery; but when
                    she heard the name of that physician which I gave (in accordance with Zara's
                    instructions) as Dr. Casimir, she held up her fat hands in dismay.
                
                “Oh, mademoiselle,” she exclaimed, “have you not dread of that terrible man? Is
                    it not he that is reported to be a cruel mesmerist who sacrifices everybody—yes,
                    even his own sister, to his medical experiments? Ah, mon Dieu! it makes me to
                    shudder!”
                And she shuddered directly, as a proof of her veracity. I was amused. I saw in
                    her the example of the common multitude, who are more ready to believe in vulgar
                    spirit-rapping and mesmerism than to accept an established scientific fact.
                “Do you know Dr. Casimir and his sister?” I asked her.
                “I have seen them, mademoiselle; perhaps once—twice—three times! It is true
                    madame is lovely as an angel; but they say”—here she lowered her voice
                    mysteriously—“that she is wedded to a devil! It is true, mademoiselle—all people
                    say so. And Suzanne Michot—a very respectable young person, mademoiselle, from
                        Auteuil —she was employed at one time as
                    under-housemaid at Dr. Casimir's, and she had things to say—ah, to make the
                    blood like ice!”
                “What did she say?” I asked with a half-smile.
                “Well,” and Madame Denise came close to me and looked confidential. “Suzanne—I
                    assure you a most respectable girl—said that one evening she was crossing the
                    passage near Madame Casimir's boudoir, and she saw a light like a fire coming
                    through the curtains of the portière. And she
                    stopped to listen, and she heard a strange music like the sound of harps. She
                    ventured to go nearer—Suzanne is a brave girl, mademoiselle, and most
                    virtuous—and to raise the curtain the smallest portion just to permit the glance
                    of an eye. And—imagine what she saw!”
                “Well?” I exclaimed impatiently. “What did she see?”
                
                “Ah, mademoiselle, you will not believe me—but Suzanne Michot has respectable
                    parents, and would not tell a lie—well, Suzanne saw her mistress, Madame
                    Casimir, standing up near her couch with both arms extended as to embrace the
                    air. Round her there was—believe it or not, mademoiselle, as you please—a ring
                    of light like a red fire, which seemed to grow larger and redder always. All
                    suddenly, madame grew pale and more pale and then fell on her couch as one dead,
                    and all the red fire went out. Suzanne had fear, and she tried to call out—but
                    now see what happened to Suzanne! She was pushed from the spot,
                    mademoiselle, pushed along as though by some strong personage; yet she saw no
                    one until she reached her own door, and in her room she fainted from alarm. The
                    very next morning Dr. Casimir dismissed her, with her full wages and a handsome
                    present besides; but he looked at her, Suzanne said, in a manner to
                        make her tremble from head to foot. Now,
                    mademoiselle, judge yourself whether it is fit for one who is suffering with
                    nerves to go to so strange a house!”
                I laughed. Her story had not the least effect upon me. In fact, I made up my mind
                    that the so respectable and virtuous Suzanne Michot had been drinking some of
                    her master's wine. I said:
                “Your words make me only more desirous to go, Madame Denise. Besides, Dr. Casimir
                    has already done me a great deal of good. You must have heard things of him that
                    are not altogether bad, surely?”
                The little woman reflected seriously, and then said, as with some reluctance:
                “It is certainly true, mademoiselle, that in the quarter of the poor he is much
                    beloved. Jean Duclos—he is a chiffonnier—had
                    his one child dying of typhoid fever, and he was watching it struggling for
                    breath; it was at the point to die. 
                        Mon-
                        Monsieur
                     sieur le Comte Casimir, or Dr.
                    Casimir—for he is called both—came in all suddenly, and in half an hour had
                    saved the little one's life. I do not deny that be may have some good in him,
                    and that be understands medicine; but there is something wrong—” And Madame
                    Denise shook her head forlornly a great number of times.
                None of her statements deterred me from my intention, and I was delighted when I
                    found myself fairly installed at the Hôtel Mars. Zara gave me a beautiful room
                    next to her own; she had taken pains to fit it up herself with everything that
                    was in accordance with my particular tastes, such as a choice selection of
                    books; music, including many of the fascinating scores of Schubert and Wagner;
                    writing materials; and a pretty, full-toned pianette. My window looked out on a
                    small courtyard, which had been covered over with glass and transformed into a
                        conservatory. I could enter it by going
                    down a few steps, and could have the satisfaction of gathering roses and lilies
                    of the valley, while outside the east wind blew and the cold snow-flakes fell
                    over Paris. I wrote to Mrs. Everard from my retreat, and I also informed the
                    Challoners where they could find me if they wanted me. These duties done, I gave
                    myself up to enjoyment. Zara and I became inseparables; we worked together, read
                    together, and together every morning gave those finishing touches to the
                    ordering and arrangement of the household which are essentially feminine, and
                    which not the wisest philosopher in all the world has been, or will be, able to
                    accomplish successfully. We grew to love each other dearly with that ungrudging,
                    sympathizing, confiding friendship that is very rarely found between two women.
                    In the meantime my cure went on rapidly. Every night on retiring to rest
                    Heliobas prepared a medicinal dose for me, of the qualities of which I was absolutely ignorant, but
                    which I took trustingly from his hand. Every morning a different little phial of
                    liquid was placed in the bath-room for me to empty into the water for my daily
                    bath, and every hour I grew better, brighter, and stronger. The natural vivacity
                    of my temperament returned to me; I suffered no pain, no anxiety, no depression,
                    and I slept as soundly as a child, unvisited by a single dream. The mere fact of
                    being alive became a joy to me; I felt grateful for everything—for my eyesight,
                    my speech, my hearing, my touch—because all my senses seemed to be sharpened and
                    invigorated and braced up to the keenest delight. This happy condition of my
                    system did not come suddenly—sudden cures mean sudden relapses; it was a
                    gradual, steady, ever-increasing, reliable recovery.
                I found the society of Heliobas and his sister very fascinating. Their
                    conversation was both thoughtful and brilliant, their manners were evenly gracious and kindly, and the life
                    they led was a model of perfect household peace and harmony. There was never a
                    fuss about anything; the domestic arrangements seemed to work on smoothly oiled
                    wheels; the different repasts were served with quiet elegance and regularity;
                    the servants were few, but admirably trained; and we all lived in an absolutely
                    calm atmosphere, unruffled by so much as a breath of worry. Nothing of a
                    mysterious nature went on, as far as I could see.
                Heliobas passed the greater part of the day in his study—a small, plainly
                    furnished room, the fac-simile of the one I had beheld him in when I had dreamed
                    those three dreams at Cannes. Whether he received many or few patients there I
                    could not tell; but that some applied to him for advice I knew, as I often met
                    strangers crossing the hall on their way in and out. He always joined us at
                        dinner, and was invariably cheerful,
                    generally entertaining us with lively converse and sparkling narrative, though
                    now and then the thoughtful tendency of his mind predominated, and gave a
                    serious tone to his remarks.
                Zara was uniformly bright and even in her temperament. She was my very ideal of
                    the Greek Psyche, radiant yet calm, pensive yet mirthful. She was full of
                    beautiful ideas and poetical fancies, and so thoroughly untouched by the world
                    and its aims, that she seemed to me just to poise on the earth like a delicate
                    butterfly on a flower; and I should have been scarcely surprised had I seen her
                    unfold a pair of shining wings and fly away to some other region. Yet in spite
                    of this spirituelle nature, she was physically
                    stronger and more robust than any other woman I ever saw. She was gay and
                    active; she was never tired, never ailing and she enjoyed life with a keen zest
                        such as is unknown to the tired multitudes
                    who toil on hopelessly and wearily, wondering, as they work, why they were born.
                    Zara evidently had no doubts for speculations of this kind; she drank in every
                    minute of her existence as if it were a drop of honey-dew prepared specially for
                    her palate. I never could believe that her age was what she had declared it to
                    be. She seemed to look younger every day; sometimes her eyes had that limpid,
                    lustrous innocence that is seen in the eyes of a very little child; and, again,
                    they would change and glow with the earnest and lofty thought of one who had
                    lived through years of study, research, and discovery. For the first few days of
                    my visit she did not work in her studio at all, but appeared to prefer reading
                    or talking with me. One afternoon, however, when we had returned from a short
                    drive in the Bois de Boulogne, she said half hesitatingly:
                “I think I will go to work again 
                        to-
                        to-morrow
                     morrow morning, if you will not
                    think me unsociable.”
                “Why, Zara dearest!” I replied. “Of course I shall not think you unsociable. I
                    would not interfere with any of your pursuits for the world.”
                She looked at me with a sort of wistful affection, and continued:
                “But you must know I like to work quite alone, and though it may look churlish,
                    still not even you must come into the studio. I never can do anything before a
                    witness; Casimir himself knows that, and keeps away from me.”
                “Well!” I said, “I should be an ungrateful wretch if I could not oblige you in so
                    small a request. I promise not to disturb you, Zara; and do not think for one
                    moment that I shall be dull. I have books, a piano, flowers—what more do I want?
                    And if I like I can go out; then I have letters to write, and all sorts of
                    things to occupy me. I shall be quite happy,
                    and I shall not come near you till you call me.”
                Zara kissed me.
                “You are a dear girl,” she said; “I hate to appear inhospitable, but I know you
                    are a real friend—that you will love me as much away from you as near you, and
                    that you have none of that vulgar curiosity which some women give way to, when
                    what they desire to see is hidden from them. You are not inquisitive, are
                    you?”
                I laughed.
                “The affairs of other people have never appeared so interesting to me that I have
                    cared to bother myself about them,” I replied. “Blue-Beard's Chamber would never
                    have been unlocked had I been that worthy man's wife.”
                “What a fine moral lesson the old fairy-tale teaches!” said Zara. “I always think
                    those wives of Blue-Beard deserved their fate for not being able to obey him in
                        his one request. But in regard to your
                    pursuits, dear, while I am at work in my studio, you can use the grand piano in
                    the drawing-room when you please, as well as the little one in your own room;
                    and you can improvise on the chapel organ as much as you like.”
                I was delighted at this idea, and thanked her heartily. She smiled
                    thoughtfully.
                “What happiness it must be for you to love music so thoroughly!” she said. “It
                    fills you with enthusiasm. I used to dislike to read the biographies of musical
                    people; they all seemed to find so much fault with one another, and grudged each
                    other every little bit of praise wrung from the world's cold, death-doomed lips.
                    It is to me pathetically absurd to see gifted persons all struggling along, and
                    rudely elbowing each other out of the way to win—what? A few stilted commonplace
                    words of approbation or fault-finding in the
                    newspapers of the day, and a little clapping and shouting from a gathering of
                    ordinary-minded persons, who only clap and shout because it is possibly the
                    fashion to do so. It is really ludicrous. If the music the musician offers to
                    the public be really great, it will live by itself, and defy praise or blame.
                    Because Schubert died of want and sorrow, that does not interfere with the life
                    of his creations. Because Wagner is voted impossible and absurd by many who
                    think themselves good judges of musical art, that does not offer any obstacle to
                    the steady spread of his fame, which is destined to become as universal as that
                    of Shakespeare. Poor Joachim, the violinist, has got a picture in his private
                    house, in which Wagner is painted as suffering the tortures of hell; can
                    anything be more absurd, when we consider how soon the learned fiddler, who has
                    occupied his life in playing other people's compositions, will be a handful of forgotten dust, while multitudes yet to
                    come will shout their admiration of ‘Tristran’ and ‘Parsifal.’ Yes, as I said, I
                    never cared for musical people much, till I met a friend of my brother's—a man
                    whose inner life was an exquisite harmony.”
                “I know!” I interrupted her. “He wrote the ‘Letters of a Dead Musician.’”
                “Yes,” said Zara. “I suppose you saw the book at Raffaello's studio. Good
                    Raffaello Cellini! his is another absolutely ungrudging and unselfish spirit.
                    But this musician that I speak of was like a child in humility and reverence.
                    Casimir told me he had never sounded so perfect a nature. At one time he, too,
                    was a little anxious for recognition and praise, and Casimir saw that he was
                    likely to wreck himself on that fatal rock of poor ambition. So he took him in
                    hand, and taught him the meaning of his work, and why it was especially given
                    him to do; and that man's life became ‘one
                        grand sweet song.’ But there are tears in your eyes, dear! What have I
                    said to grieve you?”
                And she caressed me tenderly. The tears were indeed thick in my eyes, and a
                    minute or two elapsed before I could master them. At last I raised my head and
                    endeavoured to smile.
                “They are not sad tears, Zara,” I said; “I think they come from a strong desire I
                    have to be what you are, what your brother is, what the dead musician must have
                    been. Why, I have longed, and do long for fame, for wealth, for the world's
                    applause, for all the things which you seem to think so petty and mean. How can
                    I help it? Is not fame power? Is not money a double power, strong to assist
                    one's self and those one loves? Is not the world's favour a necessary means to
                    gain these things?”
                Zara's eyes gleamed with a soft and pitying gentleness.
                
                “Do you understand what you mean by power?” she asked. “World's fame? World's
                    wealth? Will these things make you enjoy life? You will perhaps say yes. I tell
                    you no. Laurels of earth's growing fade; gold of earth's getting is good for a
                    time, but it palls quickly. Suppose a man rich enough to purchase all the
                    treasures of the world—what then? He must die and leave them. Suppose a poet or
                    musician so famous that all nations know and love him; he too must die and go
                    where nations exist no longer. And you actually would grasp ashes and drink
                    wormwood, little friend? Music, the heaven-born spirit of pure sound, does not
                    teach you so!”
                I was silent. The gleam of the strange jewel Zara always wore flashed in my eyes
                    like lightning, and anon changed to the similitude of a crimson star. I watched
                    it dreamily, fascinated by its unearthly glitter.
                
                “Still,” I said, “you yourself admit that such fame as that of Shakespeare or
                    Wagner becomes a universal monument to their memories. That is something,
                    surely?”
                “Not to them,” replied Zara; “they have partly forgotten that they were ever
                    imprisoned in such a narrow gaol as this world. Perhaps they do not care to
                    remember it, though memory is part of immortality.”
                “Ah!” I sighed restlessly; “your thoughts go beyond me, Zara. I cannot follow
                    your theories.”
                Zara smiled.
                “We will not talk about them any more,” she said; “you must tell Casimir—he will
                    teach you far better than I can.”
                “What shall I tell him?” I asked; “and what will he teach me?”
                “You will tell him what a high opinion you have of the world and its judgments,”
                    said Zara, “and he will teach you that the
                    world is no more than a grain of dust, measured by the standard of your own
                    soul. This is no mere platitude—no repetition of the poetical statement ‘The
                        mind's the standard of the man;’ it is a fact, and can be proved as
                    completely as that two and two make four. Ask Casimir to set you free.”
                “To set me free?” I asked, surprised.
                “Yes!” and Zara looked at me brightly. “He will know if you are strong enough to
                    travel!” And nodding her head gaily to me, she left the room to prepare for the
                    dinner-hour which was fast approaching.
                I pondered over her words a good deal without arriving at any satisfactory
                    conclusion as to the meaning of them. I did not resume the conversation with her
                    nor did I speak to Heliobas as yet, and the days went on smoothly and pleasantly
                    till I had been nearly a week in residence at the Hôtel Mars. I now felt
                    perfectly well and strong, though Heliobas
                    continued to give me his remedies regularly night and morning. I began an
                    energetic routine of musical practice; the beautiful Pleyell piano in the
                    drawing-room answered readily to my touch, and a delightful hour slipped by as I
                    tried various new difficulties on the keyboard, or worked out different
                    combinations of harmony. I spent a great deal of my time at the organ in the
                    little chapel, the bellows of which were worked by electricity, in a manner that
                    gave not the least trouble, and was perfectly simple of management.
                The organ itself was peculiarly sweet in tone, the “vox humana” stop especially
                    producing an entrancingly rich and tender sound. The silence, warmth, and beauty
                    of the chapel, with the winter sunlight streaming through its stained windows,
                    and the unbroken solitude I enjoyed there, all gave fresh impetus to the fancies
                    of my brain and a succession of solemn and
                    tender melodies wove themselves under my fingers as a broidered carpet is woven
                    on the loom.
                One particular afternoon, I was sitting at the instrument as usual, and my
                    thoughts began to busy themselves with the sublime tragedy at Calvary. I mused,
                    playing softly all the while, on the wonderful, blameless, glorious life that
                    had ended in the shame and cruelty of the Cross, when suddenly, like a cloud
                    swooping darkly across the heaven of my thoughts, came the suggestive question:
                    “Is it all true? Was Christ indeed Divine—or is it all a myth, a fable—an
                    imposture?” Unconsciously I struck a discordant chord on the organ—a faint
                    tremor shook me, and I ceased playing. An uncomfortable sensation came over me,
                    as of some invisible presence being near me and approaching softly, slowly, yet
                    always more closely; and I hurriedly rose from my seat, shut the organ, and prepared to leave the chapel, overcome by
                    a strange incomprehensible terror. I was glad when I found myself safely outside
                    the door, and I rushed into the hall as though I were being pursued; yet the
                    oddest part of my feeling was, that whoever thus pursued me, did so out of love,
                    not enmity, and that I was almost wrong in running away. I leaned for a moment
                    against one of the columns in the hall, trying to calm the excited beating of my
                    heart, when a deep voice startled me:
                “So! you are agitated and alarmed! Unbelief is easily scared!”
                I looked up and met the calm eyes of Heliobas. He appeared to be taller,
                    statelier, more like a Chaldean prophet or king than I had ever seen him before.
                    There was something in his steady scrutiny of my face that put me to a sort of
                    shame, and when he spoke again it was in a tone of mild reproof.
                
                “You have been led astray, my child, by the conflicting vain opinions of mankind.
                    You, like many others In the world, delight to question, to speculate, to weigh
                    this, to measure that, with little or no profit to yourself or your
                    fellow-creatures. And you have come freshly from a land where, in the great
                    Senate-house, a poor perishable lump of clay calling itself a man, dares to
                    stand up boldly and deny the existence of God, while his compeers, less bold
                    than he, pretend a holy displeasure, yet secretly support him—all blind worms
                    denying the existence of the sun; a land where so-called Religion is split into
                    hundreds of cold and narrow sects, gatherings assembled for the practice of
                    hypocrisy, lip-service and lies—where Self, not the Creator, is the prime object
                    of worship; a land, mighty once among the mightiest, but which now, like an
                    over-ripe pear, hangs loosely on its tree, awaiting but a touch to make it fall!
                    A land—let me not name it;—where the wealthy,
                    high-fed ministers of the nation slowly argue away the lives of better men than
                    themselves, with vain words of colder and more cruel force than the whirling
                    spears of untaught savages! What have you, an ardent disciple of music, to do in
                    such a land where favouritism and backstair influence win the day over even the
                    merits of a Schubert. Supposing you were a second Beethoven, what could you do
                    in that land without faith or hope? that land which is like a disappointed,
                    churlish and aged man with tottering feet and purblind eyes, who has long
                    exhausted all enjoyment and sees nothing new under the sun. The world is
                    wide—faith is yet extant—and the teachings of Christ are true. ‘Believe and
                    live; doubt and die!’ That saying is true also.”
                I had listened to these words in silence; but now I spoke eagerly and
                    impatiently, remembering what Zara had told me.
                
                “Then,” I said, “if I had been misguided by modern opinions—if I have
                    unconsciously absorbed the doctrines of modern fashionable atheism—lead me
                    right. Teach me what you know. I am willing to learn. Let me find out the reason
                    of my life. Set me free!”
                Heliobas regarded me with earnest solemnity.
                “Set you free!” he murmured, in a low tone. “Do you know what you ask?”
                “No,” I answered, with reckless fervour. “I do not know what I ask;
                    but I feel that you have the power to show me the unseen things of another
                    world. Did you not yourself tell me in our first interview that you had let
                    Raffaello Cellini ‘go on a voyage of discovery, and that he came back
                        perfectly satisfied’? Besides, he told me his history. From you he has
                    gained all that gives him peace and comfort. You possess electric secrets
                    undreamt of by the world. Prove your powers
                    upon me; I am not afraid.”
                Heliobas smiled. “Not afraid! And you ran out of the chapel just now as if you
                    were pursued by a fiend! You must know that the only woman I ever
                    tried my greatest experiment upon is my sister Zara. She was trained and
                    prepared for it in the most careful manner; and it succeeded. Now”—and Heliobas
                    looked half-sad, half-triumphant—“she has passed beyond my power; she is
                    dominated by one greater than I. But she cannot use her force for others; she
                    can only employ it to defend herself. Therefore, I am willing to try you if you
                    indeed desire it—to see if the same thing will occur to you as to Zara; and I
                    firmly believe it will.”
                A slight tremor came over me; but I said with an attempt at indifference:
                “You mean that I shall be dominated also by some great force or influence?”
                
                “I think so,” replied Heliobas musingly. “Your nature is more prone to love than
                    to command. Try and follow me in the explanation I am going to give you. Do you
                    know some lines by Shelley that run— 
                        “‘Nothing in the world is single,
                        All things by a law divine
                        In one another's being mingle,
                        Why not I with thine?’”
                    
                “Yes,” I said. “I know the lines well. I used to think them very sentimental and
                    pretty.”
                “They contain,” said Heliobas, “the germ of a great truth, as many of the most
                    fanciful verses of the poets do. As the ‘image of a voice,’ mentioned
                    in the Book of Job hinted at the telephone, and as Shakespeare's ‘girdle
                        round the earth’ foretold the electric telegraph, so the utterances of
                    the inspired starvelings of the world, known as poets, suggest many more wonders
                    of the universe than may be at first apparent.
                    Poets must always be prophets, or their calling is in vain. Put this standard of
                    judgment to the verse-writers of the day, and where would they be? The English
                    Laureate is no seer; he is a mere relater of pretty stories. Algernon Charles
                    Swinburne has more fire in him, and more wealth of expression, but he does not
                    prophesy; he has a clever way of combining Biblical similes with Provençal
                        passion—et voilà tout! The prophets are
                    always poor—the sackcloth and ashes of the world are their portion; and their
                    bodies moulder a hundred years or more in the grave before the world finds out
                    what they meant by their ravings. But apropos of these lines of Shelley. He
                    speaks of the duality of existence. ‘Nothing in the world is single.’
                    He might have gone further, and said nothing in the universe is single. Cold and
                    heat, storm and sunshine, good and evil, joy and sorrow—all go in pairs. This double life extends to all the spheres
                    and above the spheres. Do you understand?”
                “I understand what you say,” I said slowly; “but I cannot see your meaning as
                    applied to myself or yourself.”
                “I will teach you in a few words,” went on Heliobas. “You believe in the
                    soul?”
                “Yes.”
                “Very well. Now realize that there is no soul on this earth that is complete,
                        alone. Like everything else, it is dual. It is like half a
                    flame that seeks the other half, and is dissatisfied and restless till it
                    attains its object. Lovers, misled by the blinding light of Love, think they
                    have reached completeness when they are united to the person beloved. Now, in
                    very, very rare cases, perhaps one in a thousand, this desirable result is
                    effected; but the majority of people are content with the union of bodies only,
                    and care little or nothing about the sympathy
                    or attachment between souls. There are people, however, who do care, and who
                    never find their Twin-Flame or companion Spirit at all on earth, and never will
                    find it. And why? Because it is not imprisoned in clay; it is elsewhere.”
                “Well?” I asked eagerly.
                “Well, you seem to ask me by your eyes what this all means. I will apply it at
                    once to myself. By my researches into human electrical science, I discovered
                    that my companion, my other half of existence, though
                    not on earth, was near me, and could be commanded by me; and, on being
                    commanded, obeyed. With Zara it was different. She could not
                        command—she obeyed; she was the weaker of the two.
                    With you, I think it will be the same thing. Men sacrifice everything to
                    ambition; women to love. It is natural. I see that there is much of what I have
                    said that appears to have mystified you; it is
                    no good puzzling your brain any more about it. No doubt you think I am taking
                    very wildly about Twin-Flames and Spiritual Affinities that live for us in
                    another sphere. You do not believe, perhaps, in the existence of beings in the
                    very air that surrounds us, invisible to ordinary human eyes, yet actually akin
                    to us, with a closer relationship than any tie of blood known on earth?”
                I hesitated. Heliobas saw my hesitation, and his eyes darkened with sombre
                    wrath.
                “Are you one of these also who must see in order to believe?” he
                    said half angrily. “Where do you suppose your music comes from? Where do you
                    suppose any music comes from that is not mere imitation? The
                    greatest composers of the world have been mere receptacles of sound; and the
                    emptier they were of self-love and vanity, the greater the quantity of
                    heaven-born melody they held. The German
                    Wagner—did he not himself say that he walked up and down in the avenues,
                        ‘trying to catch the harmonies as they floated in the air’? Come
                    with me—come back to the place you left, and I will see if you, like Wagner, are
                    able to catch a melody flying.”
                He grasped my unresisting arm, and led me, half-frightened, half-curious, into
                    the little chapel, where he bade me seat myself at the organ.
                “Do not play a single note,” he said, “till you are compelled.”
                And standing beside me, Heliobas laid his hands on my head, then pressed them on
                    my ears, and finally touched my hands, that rested passively on the
                    keyboard.
                He then raised his eyes, and uttered the name I had often thought of but never
                    mentioned—the name he had called upon in my dream.
                “Azùl!” he said, in a low, penetrating voice,
                    “open the gateways of the Air that we may hear the sound of Song!”
                A soft rushing noise of wind answered has adjuration. This was followed by a
                    burst of music, transcendently lovely, but unlike any music I had ever heard.
                    There were sounds of delicate and entrancing tenderness such as no instrument
                    made by human hands could produce; there was singing of clear and tender tone,
                    and of infinite purity such as no human voices could be capable of. I listened,
                    perplexed, alarmed, yet entranced. Suddenly I distinguished a melody running
                    through the wonderful air-symphonies—a melody like a flower, fresh and perfect.
                    Instinctively I touched the organ and began to play it; I found I could produce
                    it note for note. I forgot all fear in my delight, and I played on and on in a
                    sort of deepening rapture. Gradually I became aware that the strange sounds
                    about me were dying slowly away; fainter and fainter they grew—softer— farther—and finally ceased. But the
                    melody—that one distinct passage of notes I had followed out—remained with me,
                    and I played it again and again with feverish eagerness lest it should escape
                    me. I had forgotten the presence of Heliobas. But a touch on my shoulder roused
                    me. I looked up and met his eyes fixed upon me with a steady and earnest regard.
                    A shiver ran through me, and I felt bewildered.
                “Have I lost it?” I asked.
                “Lost what?” he demanded.
                “The tune I heard—the harmonies.”
                “No,” he replied; “at least I think not. But if you have, no matter. You will
                    hear others. Why do you look so distressed?”
                “It is lovely,” I said wistfully, “all that music; but it is not
                        mine;” and tears of regret filled my eyes. “Oh, if it were only
                    mine—my very own composition!”
                Heliobas smiled kindly.
                
                “It is as much yours as anything belongs to anyone. Yours? why what can you
                    really call your own? Every talent you have, every breath you draw, every drop
                    of blood flowing in your veins, is lent to you only; you must pay in all back.
                    And as far as the arts go, it is a bad sign of poet, painter, or musician, who
                    is arrogant enough to call his work his own. It never was his and never will be.
                    It is planned by a higher intelligence than his, only he happens to be the hired
                    labourer chosen to carry out the conception; a sort of mechanic in whom
                    boastfulness looks absurd; as absurd as if one of the stone-masons working at
                    the cornice of a cathedral were to vaunt himself as the designer of the whole
                    edifice. And when a work, any work, is completed, it passes out of the
                    labourer's hands; it belongs to the age and the people for whom it was
                    accomplished, and, if deserving, goes on belonging to future ages and future peoples. So far, and only so far, music is
                    your own. But are you convinced? or do you think you have been dreaming all that
                    you heard just now?”
                I rose from the organ, closed it gently, and, moved by a sudden impulse, held out
                    both my hands to Heliobas. He took them and held them in a friendly clasp,
                    watching me intently as I spoke.
                “I believe in you,” I said firmly; “and I know thoroughly well that
                    I was not dreaming; I certainly heard strange music, and entrancing
                    voices. But in acknowledging your powers over something unseen, I must explain
                    to you the incredulity I at first felt, which I believe annoyed you. I was made
                    sceptical on one occasion, by attending a so-called spiritual séance, where they tried to convince me of the
                    truth of table-turning—”
                Heliobas laughed softly, still holding my hands.
                “Your reason will at once tell you that
                    disembodied spirits never become so undignified as to upset furniture or rap on
                    tables. Neither do they write letters in pen and ink and put them under doors.
                    Spiritual beings are purely spiritual; they cannot touch anything human, much
                    less deal in such vulgar display as the throwing about of chairs, and the
                    opening of locked sideboards. You were very rightly sceptical in these matters.
                    But In what I have endeavoured to prove to you, you have no doubts, have
                    you?”
                “None in the world,” I said. “I only ask you to go on teaching me the wonders
                    that seems so familiar to you. Let me know all I may; and soon!” I
                    spoke with trembling eagerness.
                “You have been only eight days in the house, my child,” said Heliobas, loosening
                    my hands, and signing me to come out of the chapel with him; “and I do not
                    consider you sufficiently strong as yet for the experiment you wish me to try
                    upon you. Even now you are agitated, Wait one
                    week more, and then you shall be—”
                “What?” I asked impatiently.
                “Lifted up,” he replied. “Lifted up above this little speck called earth. But
                    now, no more of this. Go to Zara; keep your mind well employed; study, read, and
                        pray—pray much and often in few and simple words, and with as
                    utterly unselfish a heart as you can prepare. Think that you are going to some
                    high festival, and attire your soul in readiness. I do not say to you ‘Have
                    faith;’ I would not compel your belief in anything against your own will. You
                    wish to be convinced of a future existence; you seek proofs; you shall have
                    them. In the meantime avoid all conversation with me on the subject. You can
                    confide your desires to Zara if you like; her experience may be of use to you.
                    You had best join her now. Au revoir!” and
                    with a kind parting gesture, he left me.
                
                I watched his stately figure disappear in the shadow of the passage leading to
                    his own study, and then I hastened to Zara's room. The musical episode in the
                    chapel had certainly startled me, and the words of Heliobas were full of
                    mysterious meaning; but, strange to say, I was in no way rendered anxious or
                    alarmed by the prospect I had before me of being “lifted up,” as my physician
                    had expressed it. I thought of Raffaello Cellini and his history, and I
                    determined within myself that no cowardly hesitation or fear should prevent me
                    from making the attempt to see what he professed to have seen. I found Zara
                    reading. She looked up as I entered, and greeted me with her usual bright
                    smile.
                “You have had a long practice,” she began; “I thought you were never coming.”
                I sat down beside her, and related at once all that had happened to me that afternoon. Zara listened with deep and almost
                    breathless interest.
                “You are quite resolved,” she said, when I had concluded, “to let Casimir exert
                    his force upon you?”
                “I am quite resolved!” I answered.
                “And you have no fear?”
                “None that I am just now conscious of.”
                Zara's eyes became darker and deeper in the gravity of her intense meditation. At
                    last she said:
                “I can help you to keep your courage firmly to the point, by letting you know at
                    once what Casimir will do to you. Beyond that I cannot go. You understand the
                    nature of an electric shock?”
                “Yes,” I replied.
                “Well, there are different kinds of electric shocks—some that are remedial, some
                    that are fatal. There are cures performed by a careful use of the electric
                    battery—again, people are struck dead by
                    lightning, which is the fatal result of electric force. But all this is
                        external electricity; now what Casimir will use on you will be
                        internal electricity.”
                I begged her to explain more clearly. She went on:
                “You have internally a certain amount of electricity, which has been increased
                    recently by the remedies prescribed for you by Casimir. But, however much you
                    have, Casimir has more, and he will exert his force over your force, the greater
                    over the lesser. You will experience an internal electric shock,
                    which, like a sword, will separate in twain body and spirit. The spiritual part
                    of you will be lifted up above material forces; the bodily part will remain
                    inert and useless, till the life, which is actually you, returns to
                    put its machinery in motion once more.”
                “But shall I return at all?” I asked half doubtfully.
                “You must return, because God has fixed the
                    limits of your life on earth, and no human power can alter His decree. Casimir's
                    will can set you free for a time, but only for a time, You are bound to return,
                    be it ever so reluctantly. Eternal liberty is given by Death alone, and Death
                    cannot be forced to come.”
                “How about suicide?” I asked.
                “The suicide,” replied Zara, “has no soul. He kills his body and by the very act
                    proves that whatever germ of an immortal existence he may have had once, has
                    escaped from its unworthy habitation. and gone, like a flying spark, to find a
                    chance of growth elsewhere. Surely your own reason proves this to you? The very
                    animals have more soul than a man who commits suicide. The beasts of prey slay
                    each other for hunger or in self-defence, but they do not slay themselves. That
                    is a brutality left to man alone, with its companion degradation,
                    drunkenness.”
                I mused awhile in silence.
                
                “In all the wickedness and cruelty of mankind,” I said, “it is almost a wonder
                    that there is any spiritual existence left on earth at all. Why should God
                    trouble Himself to care for such few souls as thoroughly believe in and love
                    Him?—they can be but a mere handful.”
                “Such a mere handful are worth more than the world to Him,” said Zara gravely.
                    “Oh, my dear, do not say such things as why should God trouble Himself? Why do
                        you trouble yourself for the safety and happiness of anyone you
                    love?”
                Her eyes grew soft and tender, and the jewel she wore glimmered like moonlight on
                    the sea. I felt a little abashed, and, to change the subject, I said:
                “Tell me, Zara, what is that stone you always wear? Is it a talisman?”
                “It belonged to a king,” said Zara,—“at least, it was found in a king's coffin.
                    It has been in our family for generations. Casimir says it is an electric
                        stone—there are such still to be found in
                    remote parts of the sea, Do you like it?”
                “It is very brilliant and lovely,” I said.
                “When I die,” went on Zara slowly, “I will leave it to you.”
                “I hope I shall have to wait a long time before I get it, then,” I exclaimed,
                    embracing her affectionately. “Indeed, I will pray never to receive it.”
                “You will pray wrongly,” said Zara, smiling. “But tell me, do you quite
                    understand from my explanation what Casimir will do to you?”
                “I think I do.”
                “And you are not afraid?”
                “Not at all. Shall I suffer any pain?”
                “No actual pang. You will feel giddy for a moment, and your body will become
                    unconscious. That is all.”
                I meditated for a few moments, and then, looking up, saw Zara's eyes watching me
                    with a wistful inquiring tenderness. I
                    answered her look with a smile, and sad, half gaily:
                “L'audace, l'audace, et toujours, l'audace!
                    That must be my motto, Zara. I have a chance now of proving how far a woman's
                    bravery can go, and I assure you I am proud of the opportunity. Your brother
                    uttered some very cutting remarks on the general inaptitude of the female sex
                    when I first made his acquaintance; so, for the honour of the thing, I must
                    follow the path I have begun to tread. A plunge in the unseen world is surely a
                    bold step for a woman, and I am determined to take it courageously.”
                “That is well,” said Zara. “I do not think it possible for you ever to regret it.
                    It is growing late—shall we prepare for dinner?”
                I assented and we separated to our different rooms. Before commencing to dress I
                    opened the pianette that stood near my window, and tried very softly to play the melody I had heard in the chapel. To
                    my joy it came at once to my fingers, and I was able to remember every note. I
                    did not attempt to write it down—somehow I felt sure it would not escape me now.
                    A sense of profound gratitude filled my heart, and, remembering the counsel
                    given by Heliobas, I knelt reverently down and thanked God for the joy and grace
                    of music. As I did so, a faint breath of sound, like a distant whisper of harps
                    played in unison, floated past my ears, then appeared to sweep round in
                    ever-widening circles, till it gradually died away. But it was sweet and
                    entrancing enough for me to understand how glorious and full of rapture must
                    have been the star-symphony played on that winter's night long ago, when the
                    angels chanted together, “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace and
                    good-will to Man!”
            
            
                
                CHAPTER IX.
                AN ELECTRIC SHOCK.
                PRINCE IVAN PETROFFSKY was a constant visitor at the
                    Hôtel Mars, and I began to take a certain interest in him, not unmingled with
                    pity, for it was evident that he was hopelessly in love with my beautiful friend
                    Zara. She received him always with courtesy and kindness; but her behaviour to
                    him was marked by a somewhat cold dignity, which, like a barrier of ice,
                    repelled the warmth of his admiration and attention. Once or twice, remembering
                    what he had said to me, I endeavoured to speak to her 
                        concerming
                        concerning
                     him and his 
                        devo-
                        devotion
                     tion; but she so instantly and
                    decisively turned the conversation that I saw I should displease her if I
                    persisted in it. Heliobas appeared to be really attached to the Prince, at which
                    I secretly wondered; the worldly and frivolous young nobleman was of so entirely
                    different a temperament to that of the thoughtful and studious Chaldean
                    philosopher. Yet there was evidently some mysterious attraction between them—the
                    Prince appeared to be profoundly interested in electric theories and
                    experiments, and Heliobas never wearied of expounding them to so attentive a
                    listener. The wonderful capabilities of the dog Leo, also, were brought into
                    constant requisition for Prince Ivan's benefit, and without doubt they were most
                    remarkable. This animal, commanded—or, I should say,
                        brain-electrified—by Heliobas, would fetch anything that was
                    named to him through his master's force, providing it was light enough for him
                    to carry; and he would go into the
                    conservatory and pluck off with his teeth any rare or common flower within his
                    reach that was described to him by the same means. Spoken to or commanded by
                    others, he was simply a good-natured intelligent Newfoundland; but under the
                    authority of Heliobas, he became more than human in ready wit and quick
                    obedience, and would have brought in a golden harvest to any great circus or
                    menagerie.
                He was a never-failing source of wonder and interest to me, and even more so to
                    the Prince, who made him the subject of many an abstruse and difficult
                    discussion with his friend Casimir. I noticed that Zara seemed to regret the
                    frequent companionship of Ivan Petroffsky and her brother, and a shade of sorrow
                    or vexation often crossed her fair face when she saw them together absorbed in
                    conversation or argument.
                One evening a strange circumstance occurred
                    which startled and deeply impressed me. Prince Ivan had dined with us; he was in
                    extraordinarily high spirits—his gaiety was almost boisterous, and his face was
                    deeply flushed. Zara glanced at him half indignantly more than once when his
                    laughter became unusually uproarious, and I saw that Heliobas watched him
                    closely and half-inquiringly, as if he thought there was something amiss.
                The Prince, however, heedless of his host's observant eye, tossed off glass after
                    glass of wine, and talked incessantly. After dinner, when we all assembled in
                    the drawing-room, he seated himself at the piano without being asked, and sang
                    several songs. Whether he were influenced by drink or strong excitement, his
                    voice at any rate showed no signs of weakness or deterioration. Never had I
                    heard him sing so magnificently. He seemed possessed not by an angel but by a
                    demon of song. It was impossible not to listen
                    to him, and while listening, equally impossible not to admire him. Even Zara,
                    who was generally indifferent to his music, became, on this particular night,
                    fascinated into a sort of dreamy attention. He perceived this, and suddenly
                    addressed himself to her in softened tones which bore no trace of their previous
                    loudness.
                “Madame, you honour me to-night by listening to my poor efforts. It is seldom I
                    am thus rewarded.”
                Zara flushed deeply, and then grew very pale.
                “Indeed, Prince,” she answered quietly, “you mistake me. I always listen with
                    pleasure to your singing—tonight, perhaps, my mood is more fitted to music than
                    is usual with me, and thus I may appear to you to be more attentive. But your
                    voice always delights me, as it must delight everybody who hears it.”
                “While you are in a musical mood then,” returned Prince Ivan, “let me sing you an English song—one of the loveliest ever
                    penned. I have set it to music myself, as such words are not of the kind to suit
                    ordinary composers or publishers; they are too much in earnest, too passionate,
                    too full of real human love and sorrow. The songs that suit modern drawing-rooms
                    and concert-halls, as a rule, are those that are full of sham sentiment—a real,
                    strong, throbbing heart pulse through a song is too terribly
                    exciting for lackadaisical society. Listen!” And, playing a dreamy, murmuring
                    prelude like the sound of a brook flowing through a hollow cavern, he sang
                    Swinburne's “Leave-Taking,” surely one of the saddest and most beautiful poems
                    in the English language.
                He subdued his voice to suit the melancholy hopelessness of the lines, and
                    rendered it with so much intensity of pathetic expression that it was difficult
                    to keep tears from filling the eyes. When he came to the last verse, the anguish
                    of a wasted life seemed to declare itself in
                    the complete despair of his low vibrating tones: 
                        “Let us go hence and rest; she will not love.
                        She shall not hear us if we sing hereof,
                        Nor see love's ways, how sore they are and steep.
                        Come hence, let be, lie still; it is enough.
                        Love is a barren sea, bitter and deep;
                        And though she saw all heaven in flower above.
                        She would not love!”
                    
                The deep melancholy of the music and the quivering pathos of the deep baritone
                    voice were so affecting that it was almost a relief when the song ceased. I had
                    been looking out of the window at the fantastic patterns of the moonlight on the
                    garden walk, but now I turned to see in Zara's face her appreciation of what we
                    had just heard. To my surprise she had left the room. Heliobas reclined in an
                    easy-chair, glancing up and down the columns of the Figaro; and
                    the Prince still sat at the piano, moving his fingers idly up and down the keys
                    without playing. The little page entered with
                    a letter on a silver salver. It was for his master. Heliobas read it quickly,
                    and rose, saying:
                “I must leave you to entertain yourselves for ten minutes while I answer this
                    letter. Will you excuse me?”and with the ever-courteous salute to us which was
                    part of his manner, he left the room,
                I still remained at the window. Prince Ivan still dumbly played the piano. There
                    were a few minutes of absolute silence. Then the Prince hastily got up, shut the
                    piano and approached me.
                “Do you know where Madame Zara is?” he demanded in a low fierce tone.
                I looked at him in surprise and a little alarm—he spoke with so much suppressed
                    anger, and his eyes glittered so strangely.
                “No,” I answered frankly. “I never saw her leave the room.”
                “I did,” he said. “She slipped out like a ghost, or a witch, or an angel, while I
                    was singing the last verse of Swinburne's
                    song. Do you know Swinburne, mademoiselle?”
                “No,” I replied, wondering at his manner more and more. “I only know him, as you
                    do, to be a poet.”
                “Poet, madman, or lover—all three should be one and the same thing,” muttered the
                    Prince, clenching and unclenching that strong right hand of his on which
                    sparkled a diamond like a star. “I have often wondered if poets feel what they
                    write—whether Swinburne, for instance, ever felt the weight of a dead cold thing
                    within him here,” slightly touching the region of his heart, “and
                    realized that he had to drag that corpse of unburied love with him everywhere
                    even to the grave, and beyond—O God!—beyond the grave!”
                I touched him gently on the arm. I was full of pity for him—his despair was so
                    bitter and keen.
                “Prince Ivan,” I said, “you are excited and
                    overwrought. Zara meant no slight to you in leaving the room before your song
                    was finished. I am quite sure of that. She is kindness itself—her nature is all
                    sweetness and gentleness. She would not willingly offend you—”
                “Offend me!” he exclaimed; “she could not offend me if she tried.
                    She could tread upon me, stab me, slay me, but never offend me. I see you are
                    sorry for me—and I thank you, I kiss your hand for your gentle pity,
                    mademoiselle.”
                And he did so, with a knightly grace that became him well. I thought his
                    momentary anger was passing, but I was mistaken. Suddenly he raised his arm with
                    a fierce gesture, and exclaimed:
                “By heaven! I will wait no longer. I am a fool to hesitate. I may wait a century
                    before I draw out of Casimir the secret that would enable me to measure swords
                    with my rival. Listen!” and he grasped my shoulder roughly. “Stay here, you! If Casimir returns, tell him I have gone
                    for a walk of half an hour. Play to him—keep him occupied—be my friend in this
                    one thing—I trust you. Let him not seek for Zara, or for me. I shall not be long
                    absent.”
                “Stay,” I whispered hurriedly. “What are you going to do? Surely you know the
                    power of Heliobas. He is supreme here. He could find out anything he chose. He
                    could—”
                Prince Ivan looked at me fixedly. “Will you swear to me that you actually do not
                    know?”
                “Know what?” I asked, perplexed.
                He laughed bitterly, sarcastically.
                “Did you ever hear that line of poetry which speaks of ‘A woman wailing for
                        her demon-lover’? That is what Zara does. Of one thing I am certain—she
                    does not wail or wait long, he comes quickly.”
                “What do you mean?” I exclaimed, utterly mystified “Who
                    comes quickly? I am sure you do not know what
                    you are talking about.”
                “I do know,” he replied firmly; “and I am going to prove my
                    knowledge. Remember what I have asked you.”
                And without another word or look, he threw open the velvet curtains of the
                        portière, and disappeared behind them.
                Left to myself, I felt very nervous and excited. All sorts of odd fancies came
                    into my head, and would not go away, but danced around like Will-o'-the-wisps on
                    a morass. What did Prince Ivan mean? Was he mad? or had he drunk too much wine?
                    What strange illusion had he in his mind about Zara and a demon? Suddenly a
                    thought flashed upon me that made me tremble from head to foot. I remembered
                    what Heliobas had said about twin flames and dual affinities; and I also
                    reflected that he had declared Zara to be dominated by a more powerful force
                    than his own. But then, I had accepted it as a
                    matter of course that, whatever the force was, it must be for good, not evil,
                    over a being so pure, so lovely and so intelligent as Zara.
                I knew and felt that there were good and evil forces. Now, suppose Zara were
                    commanded by some strange evil thing, unguessed at, undreamt of in the wildest
                    nightmare? I shuddered as with icy cold. It could not be. I resolutely refused
                    to admit such a fearful conjecture. Why, I thought to myself, with a faint
                    smile, I was no better in my imaginings than the so virtuous and
                    ever-respectable Suzanne Michot of whom Madame Denise had spoken. Still, the
                    hateful thought came back again and again, and refused to go away.
                I went to my old place at the window and looked out. The moonlight fell in cold
                    slanting rays; but an army of dark clouds were hurrying up from the horizon,
                    looking in their weird shapes like the mounted
                    Walkyres in Wagner's ‘Nibelungen Ring,’ galloping to Walhalla with the bodies of
                    dead warriors slung before them. A low moaning wind had arisen, and was
                    beginning to sob round the house like the Banshee. Hark! what was that? I
                    started violently. Surely that was a faint shriek? I listened intently. Nothing
                    but the wind rustling among some creaking branches. 
                        “A woman wailing for her demon-lover.”
                     How that line haunted me! And with it there slowly grew up in my mind a
                    black looming horror; an idea, vague and ghastly, that froze my blood and turned
                    me faint and giddy. Suppose, when I had consented to be experimented upon by
                    Heliobas—when my soul in the electric trance was lifted up to the unseen
                    world—suppose an evil force, terrible and all-compelling, were to dominate
                        me and hold me for ever and ever! I gasped for breath! Oh, so much the more need of prayer!
                “Pray much and often, with as unselfish a heart as you can prepare.”
                Thus Heliobas had said; and I thought to myself, if all those who were on the
                    brink of great sin or crime could only be brought to feel beforehand what I felt
                    when facing the spectral dread of unknown evil, then surely sins would be fewer
                    and crimes never committed. And I murmured softly, “Lead us not into temptation,
                    but deliver us from evil.”
                The mere utterance of these words seemed to calm and encourage me; and as I gazed
                    up at the sky again, with its gathering clouds, one star, like a bright
                    consoling eye, looked at me, glittering cheerfully amid the surrounding
                    darkness.
                More than ten minutes had elapsed since Prince Ivan had left the room, and there
                    was no sound of returning footsteps. And where was Zara? I determined to seek her. I was free to go anywhere in the house,
                    only avoiding her studio during her hours of work; and she never worked at
                    night. I would go to her and confide all my strange thoughts and terrors to her
                    friendly sympathy. I hurried through the hall and up the staircase quickly, and
                    should have gone straight into Zara's boudoir had I not heard a sound or voices
                    which caused me to stop precipitately outside the door. Zara was speaking. Her
                    low, musical accents fell like a silver chime on the air.
                “I have told you,” she said, “again and again that it is impossible. You waste
                    your life in the pursuit of a phantom; for a phantom I must be to you always—a
                    mere dream, not a woman such as your love would satisfy. You are a strong man,
                    in sound health and spirits; you care for the world and the things that are in
                    it. I do not. You would make me happy, you say. No doubt you would do your
                        best—your wealth and influence, your good
                    looks, your hospitable and friendly nature would make most women happy. But what
                    should I care for your family diamonds? for your surroundings? for
                    your ambitions? The society of the world fills me with disgust and prejudice.
                    Marriage, as the world considers it, shocks and outrages my self-respect; the
                    idea of a bodily union without that of souls is to me repulsive and loathsome.
                    Why, therefore, waste your time in seeking a love which does not exist, which
                    will never exist for you?”
                I heard the deep, passionate tones of Prince Ivan in answer:
                “One light kindles another, Zara! The sunlight melts the snow! I cannot believe
                    but that a long and faithful love may—nay, must—have its reward at
                    last. Even according to your brother's theories, the emotion of love is capable
                    of powerful attraction. Cannot I hope that my passion—so strong, so great, so
                    true, Zara!— will, with patience, draw you,
                    star of my life, closer and closer, till I at last call you mine?”
                I heard the faint rustle of Zara's silk robe as though she were moving further
                    from him.
                “You speak ignorantly, Prince. Your studies with Casimir appear to have brought
                    you little knowledge. Attraction! How can you attract what is not in your
                    sphere? As well ask for the Moons of Jupiter or the Ring of Saturn! The laws of
                    attraction and repulsion, Prince Ivan, are fixed by a higher authority than
                    yours, and you are as powerless to alter or abate them by one iota, as a child
                    is powerless to repel the advancing waves of the sea.”
                Prince Ivan spoke again, and his voice quivered with suppressed anger.
                “You may talk as you will, beautiful Zara; but you shall never persuade me
                    against my reason. I am no dreamer; no
                    speculator in aërial nothings; no clever charlatan like Casimir, who, because he is able to magnetize a
                    dog, pretends to the same authority over human beings, and dares to risk the
                    health, perhaps the very sanity of his own sister, and that of the unfortunate
                    young musician whom he has inveigled in here, all for the sake of proving his
                    dangerous, almost diabolical experiments. Oh yes; I see you are indignant, but I
                    speak truth. I am a plain man;—and if I am deficient in electric
                        germs, as Casimir would say, I have plenty of common-sense. I wish to
                    rescue you, Zara. You are becoming a prey to morbid fancies; your naturally
                    healthy mind is full of extravagant notions concerning angels and demons and
                    what not; and your entire belief in, and enthusiasm for, your brother is a
                    splendid advertisement for him. Let me tear the veil of credulity from your
                    eyes. Let me teach you how good a thing it is to live and love and laugh like
                    other people, and leave electricity to the
                    telegraph-wires and the lamp-posts.”
                Again I heard the silken rustle of Zara's dress, and, impelled by strong
                    curiosity and excitement, I raised a corner of the curtain hanging over the
                    door, and was able to see the room distinctly. The Prince stood, or rather
                    lounged, near the window, and opposite to him was Zara; she had evidently
                    retreated from him as far as possible, and held herself proudly erect, her eyes
                    flashing with unusual brilliancy contrasted with the pallor of her face.
                “Your insults to my brother, Prince,” she said calmly, “I suffer to pass by me,
                    knowing well to what a depth of wilful blind ignorance you are fallen. I pity
                    you—and—I despise you! You are indeed a plain man, as you say—nothing more, and
                    nothing less. You can take advantage of the hospitality of this house, and
                    pretend friendship to the host, while you slander him behind his back, and
                    insult his sister in the privacy of her own
                    apartment. Very man-like, truly; and perfectly in accordance with a reasonable
                    being who likes to live and love and laugh according to the rule of society—a
                    puppet whose wires society pulls, and he dances or dies as society pleases. I
                    told you a gulf existed between us—you have widened it, for which I thank you!
                    As I do not impose any of my wishes upon you, and therefore cannot
                    request you to leave the room, you must excuse me if I
                    retire elsewhere.”
                And she approached the entrance of her studio, which was opposite to where I
                    stood; but the Prince reached it before her, and placed his back against it. His
                    face was deathly pale, and his dark eyes blazed with wrath and love
                    intermingled.
                “No, Zara!” he exclaimed in a sort of loud whisper. “If you think to escape me
                    so, you are in error. I came to you reckless and resolved! You shall be mine if I die for it!” And he strove to seize her
                    in his arms. But she escaped him and stood at bay, her lips quivering, her bosom
                    heaving, and her hands clenched.
                “I warn you!” she exclaimed. “By the intense loathing I have for you; by the
                    force which makes my spirit rise in arms against you, I warn you! Do not dare to
                    touch me! If you care for your own life, leave me while there is time!”
                Never had she looked so supremely, terribly beautiful. I gazed at her from my
                    corner of the doorway, awed, yet fascinated. The jewel on her breast glowed with
                    an angry red lustre, and shot forth dazzling opaline rays, as though it were a
                    sort of living, breathing star. Prince Ivan paused—entranced no doubt, as I was,
                    by her unearthly loveliness. His face flushed—he gave a low laugh of admiration.
                    Then he made two swift strides forward and caught her fiercely in his embrace.
                    His triumph was brief. Scarcely had his strong
                    arm clasped her waist, when it fell numb and powerless—scarcely had his eager
                    lips stooped towards hers, when he reeled and sank heavily on the ground,
                    senseless! The spell that had held me a silent spectator of the scene was
                    broken. Terrified, I rushed into the room, crying out:
                “Zara, Zara What have you done?”
                Zara turned her eyes gently upon me—they were soft and humid as though recently
                    filled with tears. All the burning scorn and indignation had gone out of her
                    face—she looked pityingly at the prostrate form of her admirer.
                “He is not dead,” she said quietly. “I will call Casimir.”
                I knelt beside the Prince and raised his hand. It was cold and heavy. His lips
                    were blue, and his closed eyelids looked as though, in the words of Homer,
                    “Death's purple finger” had shut them fast for ever. No breath—no pulsation of
                    the heart. I looked fearfully at Zara. She
                    smiled half sadly.
                “He is not dead,” she repeated.
                “Are you sure?” I murmured. “What was it, Zara, that made him fall? I was at the
                    door—I saw and heard everything.”
                “I know you did,” said Zara gently; “and I am glad of it. I wished you to see and
                    hear all.”
                “Is it a fit, do you think?” I asked again, looking sorrowfully at the sad face
                    of the unfortunate Ivan, which seemed to me to have already graven upon it the
                    stern sweet smile of those who have passed all passion and pain for ever. “Oh,
                    Zara! do you believe he will recover?” And tears choked my voice—tears of
                    compassion and regret.
                Zara came and kissed me.
                “Yes, he will recover—do not fret, little one, I have rung my private bell for
                    Casimir; he will be here directly. The Prince
                    has had a shock—not a fatal one, as you will see. You look doubtful—are you
                    afraid of me, dear?”
                I gazed at her earnestly. Those clear childlike eyes—that frank smile—that gentle
                    and dignified mien—could they accompany evil thoughts? No! I was sure Zara was
                    as good as she was lovely.
                “I am not afraid of you, Zara,” I said gravely; “I love you too well for that.
                    But I am sorry for the poor Prince; and I cannot understand—”
                “You cannot understand why those who trespass against fixed laws should suffer?”
                    observed Zara, calmly. “Well, you will understand some day. You will know that
                    in one way or another it is the reason of all suffering, both physical, and
                    mental, in the world.”
                I said no more, but waited in silence till the sound of a firm approaching
                    footstep announced Heliobas. He entered the room quickly—glanced at the
                        motionless form of the Prince, then at me,
                    and lastly at his sister.
                “Has he been long thus?” he asked in a low tone.
                “Not five minutes,” replied Zara.
                A pitying and affectionate gentleness of expression filled his keen eyes.
                “Reckless boy!” he murmured softly, as he stooped and laid one hand lightly on
                    Ivan's breast. “He is the very type of misguided human bravery. You were too
                    hard upon him, Zara!”
                Zara sighed.
                “He spoke against you,” she said.
                “Of course he did,” returned her brother with a smile. “And it was perfectly
                    natural he should do so. Have I not read his thoughts? Do not I know that he
                    considers me a false pretender and charlatan?
                    And have I not humoured him? In this he is no worse than any one of his race.
                    Every great scientific discovery is voted impossible at the first start. Ivan is not to blame because he is like the
                    rest of the world. He will be wiser in time.”
                “He attempted to force his desires,” began Zara again, and her cheeks flushed
                    indignantly.
                “I know,” answered her brother. “I foresaw how it would be, but was powerless to
                    prevent it. He was wrong—but bold! Such boldness compels a certain admiration.
                    This fellow would scale the stars, if he knew how to do it, by physical force
                    alone.”
                I grew impatient, and interrupted these remarks.
                “Perhaps he is scaling the stars now,” I said; “or at any rate he will do so if
                    death can show him the way.”
                Heliobas gave me a friendly glance.
                “You also are growing courageous when you can speak to your physician thus
                    abruptly,” he observed quietly. “Death has nothing to do with our friend as yet,
                        I assure you. Zara, you had better leave
                    us. Your face must not be the first for Ivan's eyes to rest upon. You,” nodding
                    to me, “can stay.”
                Zara pressed my hand gently as she passed me, and entered her studio, the door of
                    which closed behind her, and I heard the key turn in the lock. I became absorbed
                    in the proceedings of Heliobas. Stooping towards the recumbent form of Prince
                    Ivan, he took the heavy, lifeless hands firmly in his own, and then fixed his
                    eyes fully and steadily on the pale, set features with an expression of the of
                    the most forcible, calm and absolutely undeniable authority. Not one word did he
                    utter, but remained motionless as a statue in the attitude thus assumed—he
                    seemed scarcely to breathe—not a muscle of his countenance moved. Perhaps twenty
                    or thirty seconds had elapsed, when a warm tinge of colour came back to the
                    apparently dead face—the brows twitched—the lips quivered and parted in a heavy sigh. The bruised appearance of the eyelids
                    gave place to the natural tint—they opened, disclosing the eyes, which stared
                    directly into those of the compelling Master who thus forced their obedience. A
                    strong shudder shook the young man's frame; his before nerveless hands grasped
                    those of Heliobas with force and fervour, and still meeting that steady look
                    which seemed to pierce the very centre of his system, Prince Ivan, like Lazarus
                    of old, arose and stood erect. As he did so, Heliobas withdrew his eyes, dropped
                    his hands and smiled.
                “You are better, Ivan?” he inquired kindly.
                The Prince looked about him, bewildered. He passed one hand across his forehead
                    without replying. Then he turned slightly and perceived me in the
                    window-embrasure, whither I had retreated in fear and wonderment at the
                    marvellous power of Heliobas, thus openly and
                    plainly displayed.
                “Tell me,” he said, addressing me, “have I been dreaming?”
                I could not answer him. I was glad to see him recover, yet I was a little afraid.
                    Heliobas pushed a chair gently towards him.
                “Sit down, Ivan,” he said quietly.
                The Prince obeyed, and covered his face with his hand as though in deep and
                    earnest meditation. I looked on in silence and wonderment. Heliobas spoke not
                    another word, and together we watched the pensive figure in the chair, so
                    absorbed in serious thought. Some minutes passed. The gentle tick of the clock
                    in the outer hall grew obtrusive, so loud did it seem in the utter stillness
                    that surrounded us, I longed to speak—to ask questions—to proffer sympathy—but
                    dared not move or utter a syllable. Suddenly the Prince rose; his manner was
                    calm and dignified, yet touched with a strange
                    humility. He advanced to Heliobas, holding out his hand.
                “Forgive me, Casimir!” he said simply.
                Heliobas at once grasped the proffered palm within his own, and looked at the
                    young man with an almost fatherly tenderness.
                “Say no more, Ivan!” he returned, his rich voice sounding more than usually
                    mellow in its warmth and heartiness. “We must all learn before we can know, and
                    some of our lessons are sharp and difficult. Whatever you have thought of me,
                    remember I have not, and do not, blame you. To be offended with unbelievers is
                    to show that you are not yourself quite sure of the faith to which you would
                    compel them.”
                “I would ask you one thing,” went on the Prince, speaking in a low tone. “Do not
                    let me stay to fall into fresh errors. Teach me—guide me, Casimir; I will be the most docile of your pupils. As for Zara—”
                    He paused, as if overcome.
                “Come with me,” said Heliobas, taking his arm; “a glass of good wine will
                    invigorate you. It is better to see Zara no more for a time. Let me take charge
                    of you. You, mademoiselle,” turning to me, “will be kind enough to tell Zara
                    that the Prince has recovered, and sends her a friendly good-night.
                    “Will that message suffice?” he inquired of Ivan, with a smile.
                The Prince looked at me with a sort of wistful gravity as I came forward to bid
                    him farewell.
                “You will embrace her,” he said slowly, “without fear. Her eyes will rain
                    sunshine upon you; they will not dart lightning. Her lips will meet yours, and
                    their touch will be warm—not cold, as sharp steel. Yes; bid her good-night for
                    me; tell her that an erring man kisses the hem of her robe, and prays her for
                        pardon. Tell her that I understand; tell
                    her I have seen her lover.”
                With these words, uttered distinctly and emphatically, he turned away with
                    Heliobas, who still held him by the arm in a friendly, half-protecting manner.
                    The tears stood in my eyes. I called softly:
                “Good-night, Prince Ivan!”
                He looked back with a faint smile.
                “Good-night, mademoiselle!”
                Heliobas also looked back and gave me an encouraging nod, which meant several
                    things at once, such as “Do not be anxious,” “He will be all right soon,” and
                    “Always believe the best.” I watched their two figures disappear through the
                    doorway, and then, feeling almost cheerful again, I knocked at the door of
                    Zara's studio. She opened it at once, and came out. I delivered the Prince's
                    message word for word, as he had given it. She listened, and sighed deeply.
                “Are you sorry for him, Zara?” I asked.
                
                “Yes,” she replied; “I am sorry for him as far as I can be sorry for anything. I
                    am never actually very sorry for any circumstances, however
                    grievous they may appear.”
                I was surprised at this avowal.
                “Why, Zara,” I said, “I thought you were so keenly sympathetic?”
                “So I am sympathetic, but only with suffering ignorance—a dying bird that knows
                    not why it should die—a withering rose that sees not the reason for its
                    withering; but for human beings, who willfully blind themselves to the teachings
                    of their own instincts, and are always doing what they know they ought not to do
                    in spite of warning, I cannot say I am sorry. And for those who do
                    study the causes and ultimate results of their existence, there is no occasion
                    to be sorry, as they are perfectly happy, knowing everything that happens to
                    them to be for their advancement and justification.”
                
                “Tell me,” I asked with a little hesitation, “what did Prince Ivan mean by saying
                    he had seen your lover, Zara?”
                “He meant what he said, I suppose,” replied Zara, with sudden coldness. “Excuse
                    me, I thought you said you were not inquisitive.”
                I could not bear this change of tone in her, and I clasped my arms tight about
                    her and smiled in her face.
                “You shall not get angry with me, Zara. I am not going to be treated
                    like poor Ivan. I have found out what you are, and how dangerous it is to admire
                    you; but I do admire and love you. And I defy you to knock me down as
                    unceremoniously as you did the Prince—you beautiful living bit of
                    Lightning!”
                Zara moved restlessly in my embrace, but I held her fast. At the last epithet I
                    bestowed on her she grew very pale; but her eyes resembled the jewels on her
                    breast in their sheeny glitter.
                
                “What have you found out?” she murmured. “What do you know?”
                “I cannot say I know,” I went on boldly, still keeping my arms round
                    her; “but I have made a guess which I think comes near the truth. Your brother
                    has had the care of you since you were a little child, and I believe he has, by
                    some method known only to himself, charged you with electricity. Yes, Zara,” for
                    she had started and tried to loosen my hold of her; “and it is that which keeps
                    you young and fresh as a girl of sixteen, at an age when other women lose their
                    bloom and grow wrinkles. It is that which gives you the power to impart a
                    repelling shock to people you dislike, as in the case of Prince Ivan. It is that
                    which gives you such an attractive force for those with whom you have a little
                    sympathy—such as myself, for instance; and you cannot, Zara, with all your
                    electrical strength, unclasp my arms from your waist, because you have not the sentiment of repulsion towards me
                    which would enable you to do it. Shall I go on guessing?”
                Zara made a sign of assent—the expression of her face had softened, and a
                    dimpling smile played round the corners of her mouth.
                “Your lover,” I went on steadily and slowly, “is a native of some other
                    sphere—perhaps the creation of your own fancy—perhaps (for I will not be
                    skeptical any more) a beautiful and all-powerful angelic spirit. I will not
                    discuss this with you. I believe that when Prince Ivan fell senseless, he saw,
                    or fancied he saw, that nameless being. And now,” I added, loosening my clasp of
                    her, “have I guessed well?”
                Zara looked meditative. “I do not know,” she said, “why you should imagine—”
                “Stop!” I exclaimed; “there is no imagination in the case. I have reasoned it
                    out. Here is a book I found in the library on electric organs as they are discovered to exist in certain fish. Listen:
                    ‘They are nervous apparatuses which in the arrangement of their parts may be
                    compared to a Voltaic pile. They develop electricity and give electrical
                    discharges.’”
                “Well!” said Zara.
                “You say ‘Well!’ as if you did not know!” I exclaimed half angrily, half
                    laughingly. “These fish have helped me to understand a great deal, I assure you.
                    Your brother must have discovered the seed or commencement of electrical organs
                    like those described, in the human body; and he has cultivated them in you and
                    in himself, and has brought them to a high state of perfection. He has
                    cultivated them in Raffaello Cellini, and he is beginning to cultivate them in
                    me, and I hope most sincerely he will succeed. I think his theory is a
                    magnificent one.”
                Zara gazed seriously at me, and her large eyes seemed to grow darker with the
                    intensity of her thought.
                
                “Supposing you had reasoned out the matter correctly,” she said—“and I will not
                    deny that you have done a great deal towards the comprehension of it—have you no
                    fear? do you not include some drawbacks in even Casimir's learning such a
                    secret, and being able to cultivate and educate such a deadly force as that of
                    electricity in the human being?”
                “If it is deadly, it is also life giving,” I answered. “Remedies are also
                    poisons. You laid the Prince senseless at your feet, but your brother raised him
                    up again. Both these things were done by electricity. I can understand it all
                    now; I see no obscurity, no mystery. And oh, what a superb discovery it is!”
                Zara smiled.
                “You enthusiast!” she said, “it is nothing new. It was well known to the ancient
                    Chaldeans. It was known to Moses and his followers; it was practiced in
                    perfection by Christ and his disciples. To
                    modern civilization it may seem a discovery, because the tendency of all
                    so-called progress is to forget the past. The scent of the human savage is
                    extraordinarily keen—keener than that of any animal—he can follow a track
                    unerringly by some odour be is able to detect in the air. Again, he can lay back
                    his ears to the wind and catch a faint, far-off sound with certainty and
                    precision, and tell you what it is. Civilized beings have forgotten all this;
                    they can neither smell nor hear with actual keenness. Just in the same way they
                    have forgotten the use of the electrical organs they all indubitably possess in
                    large or minute degree. As the muscles of the arm are developed in practice, so
                    can the wonderful internal electrical apparatus of man be strengthened and
                    enlarged by use. The world in its youth knew this; the world in its age forgets,
                    as an old man forgets or smiles disdainfully at the past sports of his
                    childhood. But do not let us talk any more
                    to-night. If you think your ideas of me are correct—”
                “I am sure they are!” I cried, triumphantly. Zara held out her arms to me. “And
                    you are sure you love me?” she asked.
                I nestled into her embrace and kissed her.
                “Sure!” I answered. “Zara, I love and honour you more than any woman I ever met
                    or ever shall meet. And you love me—I know you do!”
                “How can I help it?” she said. “Are you not one of us? Good-night, dearest! Sleep
                    well!”
                “Good-night!” I answered. “And remember Prince Ivan asked for your pardon.”
                “I remember!” she replied softly. “I have already pardoned him, and I will pray
                    for him.” And a sort of radiant pity and forbearance illumined her lovely
                    features, as we parted for the night. So might an angel look on some repentant sinner pleading for
                    Heaven's forgiveness.
                I lay awake for some time that night, endeavouring to follow out the track of
                    thought I had entered upon in my conversation with Zara. With such electricity
                    as Heliobas practised, once admitting that human electric force existed, all
                    things were possible. Even a knowledge of superhuman events might be attained,
                    if there were anything in the universe that was superhuman; and
                    surely it would be arrogant and ignorant to refuse to contemplate such a
                    probability. At one time people mocked at the wild idea that a message could
                    flash in a moment of time from one side of the Atlantic to the other by means of
                    a cable laid under the sea; now that it is an established fact, the world has
                    grown accustomed to it, and has ceased to regard it as a wonder. Granting human
                    electricity to exist, why should not a
                    communication be established, like a sort of spiritual Atlantic cable, between
                    man and the beings of other spheres and other solar systems? The more I
                    reflected on the subject the more lost I became in daring speculations
                    concerning that other world, to which I was soon to be lifted. Then, in a sort
                    of half doze, I fancied I saw an interminable glittering chain of vivid light
                    composed of circles that were all looped one in another, which seemed to sweep
                    around the realms of space and to tie up the sun, moon, and stars like flowers
                    in a ribbon of fire. After much anxious and humble research, I found myself to
                    be one of the smallest links in this great chain. I do not know whether I was
                    grateful or afraid at this discovery, for sleep put an end to my drowsy fancies,
                    and dropped a dark curtain over my waking dreams.
            
            END OF VOL. I.
            BILLING & SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD. S. & H.
        
    
