
     ----CITATION----
        Webster, Augusta (1837-1894). Dramatic Studies. TEI formatted filesize uncompressed: approx. 192 kbytes.
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (June 19, 1997 ).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7051
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                
                    DRAMATIC STUDIES
                
                BYAUGUSTA WEBSTER.
                
                    London and Cambridge
                    MACMILLAN AND CO.
                
                1866.
            
            
            
                CONTENTS.
                
                    A PREACHER 3
                    A PAINTER 15
                
                
                    JEANNE D’ARC 29
                    SISTER ANNUNCIATA:— 
                        I. AN ANNIVERSARY 39
                        II. ABBESS URSULA’S LECTURE 98
                        
                
                
                    THE SNOW WASTE 113
                    WITH THE DEAD 133
                
                
                    BY THE LOOKING?GLASS 149
                
                
                    TOO LATE 161
                
            
        
        
            
                
                    
                    A PREACHER.
                    A PAINTER.
                    
                    
                        A PREACHER.
                        
                            “Lest that by any means
                            When I have preached to others I myself
                            Should be a castaway.”
                        
                        If some one now
                        Would take that text and preach to us that preach,—
                        Some one who could forget his truths were old
                        And what were in a thousand bawling mouths
                        While they filled his—some one who could so throw
                        His life into the old dull skeletons
                        Of points and morals, inferences, proofs,
                        Hopes, doubts, persuasions, all for time untold
                        Worn out of the flesh, that one could lose from mind
                        How well one knew his lesson, how oneself
                        Could with another, may be choicer, style
                        Enforce it, treat it from another view
                        
                        And with another logic—some one warm
                        With the rare heart that trusts itself and knows
                        Because it loves—yes such a one perchance,
                        With such a theme, might waken me as I
                        Have wakened others, I who am no more
                        Than steward of an eloquence God gives
                        For others’ use not mine. But no one bears
                        Apostleship for us. We teach and teach
                        Until, like drumming pedagogues, we lose
                        The thought that what we teach has higher ends
                        Than being taught and learned. And if a man
                        Out of ourselves should cry aloud, “I sin,
                        And ye are sinning, all of us who talk
                        Our Sunday half?hour on the love of God,
                        Trying to move our peoples, then go home
                        To sleep upon it and, when fresh again,
                        To plan another sermon, nothing moved,
                        Serving our God like clock?work sentinels,
                        We who have souls ourselves,” why I like the rest
                        Should turn in anger: “Hush this charlatan
                        Who, in his blatant arrogance, assumes
                        Over us who know our duties.”
                        Yet that text
                        
                        Which galls me, what a sermon might be made
                        Upon its theme! How even I myself
                        Could stir some of our priesthood! Ah! but then
                        Who would stir me?
                        I know not how it is;
                        I take the faith in earnest, I believe,
                        Even at happy times I think I love,
                        I try to pattern me upon the type
                        My Master left us, am no hypocrite
                        Playing my soul against good men’s applause,
                        Nor monger of the Gospel for a cure,
                        But serve a Master whom I chose because
                        It seemed to me I loved him, whom till now
                        My longing is to love; and yet I feel
                        A falseness somewhere clogging me. I seem
                        Divided from myself; I can speak words
                        Of burning faith and fire myself with them;
                        I can, while upturned faces gaze on me
                        As if I were their Gospel manifest,
                        Break into unplanned turns as natural
                        As the blind man’s cry for healing, pass beyond
                        My bounded manhood in the earnestness
                        Of a messenger from God. And then I come
                        
                        And in my study’s quiet find again
                        The callous actor who, because long since
                        He had some feelings in him like the talk
                        The book puts in his mouth, still warms his pit
                        And even, in his lucky moods, himself
                        With the passion of his part, but lays aside
                        His heroism with his satin suit
                        And thinks “the part is good and well conceived
                        And very natural—no flaw to find”—
                        And then forgets it.
                        Yes I preach to others
                        And am—I know not what—a castaway?
                        No, but a man who feels his heart asleep,
                        As he might feel his hand or foot. The limb
                        Will not awake without a little shock,
                        A little pain perhaps, a nip or blow,
                        And that one gives and feels the waking pricks.
                        But for one’s heart I know not. I can give
                        No shock to make mine prick. I seem to be
                        Just such a man as those who claim the power
                        Or have it, (say, to serve the thought), of willing
                        That such a one should break an iron bar,
                        And such a one resist the strength of ten,
                        
                        And the thing is done, yet cannot will themselves
                        One least small breath of power beyond the wont.
                        To?night now I might triumph. Not a breath
                        But shivered when I pictured the dead soul
                        Awaking when the body dies to know
                        Itself has lived too late, and drew in long
                        With yearning when I shewed how perfect love
                        Might make Earth’s self be but an earlier Heaven.
                        And I may say and not be over?bold,
                        Judging from former fruits, “Some one to?night
                        Has come more near to God, some one has felt
                        What it may mean to love Him, some one learned
                        A new great horror against death and sin,
                        Some one at least—it may be many.” Yet—
                        And yet—Why I the preacher look for God,
                        Saying “I know thee Lord, what I should see
                        If I could see thee as some can on earth,
                        But I do not see thee,” and “I know thee Lord,
                        What loving thee is like, as if I loved,
                        But I cannot love thee.” And even with the thought
                        The answer grows “Thine is the greater sin,”
                        And I stand self?convicted yet not shamed,
                        But quiet, reasoning why it should be thus,
                        
                        And almost wishing I could suddenly
                        Fall in some awful sin, that so might come
                        A living sense of God, if but by fear,
                        And a repentance sharp as is the need.
                        But now, the sin being indifference,
                        Repentance too is tepid.
                        There are some,
                        Good men and honest though not overwise
                        Nor studious of the subtler depths of minds
                        Below the surface strata, who would teach,
                        In such a case, to scare oneself awake
                        (As girls do, telling ghost?tales in the dark),
                        With scriptural terrors, all the judgments spoken
                        Against the tyrant empires, all the wrath
                        On them who slew the prophets and forsook
                        Their God for Baal, and the awful threat
                        For him whose dark dread sin is pardonless,
                        So that in terror one might cling to God—
                        As the poor wretch, who, angry with his life,
                        Has dashed into a dank and hungry pool,
                        Learns in the death?gasp to love life again
                        And clings unreasoning to the saving hand.
                        Well I know some—for the most part with thin minds
                        
                        Of the effervescent kind, easy to froth,
                        Though easier to let stagnate—who thus wrought
                        Convulsive pious moods upon themselves
                        And, thinking all tears sorrow and all texts
                        Repentance, are in peace upon the trust
                        That a grand necessary stage is past,
                        And do love God as I desire to love.
                        And now they’ll look on their hysteric time
                        And wonder at it, seeing it not real
                        And yet not feigned. They’ll say “A special time
                        Of God’s direct own working—you may see
                        It was not natural.”
                        And there I stand
                        In face with it, and know it. Not for me;
                        Because I know it, cannot trust in it;
                        It is not natural. It does not root
                        Silently in the dark as God’s seeds root,
                        Then day by day move upward in the light.
                        It does not wake a tremulous glimmering dawn,
                        Then swell to perfect day as God’s light does.
                        It does not give to life a lowly child
                        To grow by days and morrows to man’s strength,
                        As do God’s natural birthdays. God who sets
                        
                        Some little seed of good in everything
                        May bring his good from this, but not for one
                        Who calmly says “I know—this is a dream,
                        A mere mirage sprung up of heat and mist;
                        It cannot slake my thirst: but I will try
                        To fool my fancy to it, and will rush
                        To cool my burning throat, as if there welled
                        Clear waters in the visionary lake,
                        That so perchance Heaven pitying me may send
                        Its own fresh showers upon me.” I perchance
                        Might, with occasion, spite of steady will
                        And steady nerve, bring on the ecstasy:
                        But what avails without the simple faith?
                        I should not cheat myself, and who cheats God?
                        And wherefore should I count love more than truth,
                        And buy the loving him with such a price,
                        Even if ’twere possible to school myself
                        To an unbased belief and love him more
                        Only through a delusion?
                        Not so, Lord.
                        Let me not buy my peace, nay not my soul,
                        At price of one least word of thy strong truth
                        Which is Thyself. The perfect love must be
                        
                        When one shall know thee. Better one should
                            lose
                        The present peace of loving, nay of trusting,
                        Better to doubt and be perplexed in soul
                        Because thy truth seems many and not one,
                        Than cease to seek thee, even through reverence,
                        In the fulness and minuteness of thy truth.
                        If it be sin, forgive me: I am bold,
                        My God, but I would rather touch the ark
                        To find if thou be there than—thinking hushed
                        “’Tis better to believe, I will believe,
                        Though, were’t not for belief, ’tis far from proved”—
                        Shout with the people “Lo our God is there,”
                        And stun my doubts by iterating faith.
                        And yet, I know not why it is, this knack
                        Of sermon?making seems to carry me
                        Athwart the truth at times before I know—
                        In little things at least; thank God the greater
                        Have not yet grown by the familiar use
                        Such puppets of a phrase as to slip by
                        Without clear recognition. Take to?night—
                        I preached a careful sermon, gravely planned,
                        All of it written. Not a line was meant
                        To fit the mood of any differing
                        
                        From my own judgment: not the less I find—
                        (I thought of it coming home while my good Jane
                        Talked of the Shetland pony I must get
                        For the boys to learn to ride:) yes here it is,
                        And here again on this page—blame by rote,
                        Where by my private judgment I blame not.
                        “We think our own thoughts on this day,” I
                            said,
                        “Harmless it may be, kindly even, still
                        “Not Heaven’s thoughts—not Sunday thoughts I’ll
                            say.”
                        Well now do I, now that I think of it,
                        Advise a separation of our thoughts
                        By Sundays and by week?days, Heaven’s and ours?
                        By no means, for I think the bar is bad.
                        I’ll teach my children “Keep all thinkings pure,
                        And think them when you like, if but the time
                        Is free to any thinking. Think of God
                        So often that in anything you do
                        It cannot seem you have forgotten Him,
                        Just as you would not have forgotten us,
                        Your mother and myself, although your thoughts
                        Were not distinctly on us, while you played;
                        And, if you do this, in the Sunday’s rest
                        You will most naturally think of Him;
                        
                        Just as your thoughts, though in a different way,
                        (God being the great mystery He is
                        And so far from us and so strangely near),
                        Would on your mother’s birthday?holiday
                        Come often back to her.” But I’d not urge
                        A treadmill Sunday labour for their mind,
                        Constant on one forced round: nor should I blame
                        Their constant chatter upon daily themes.
                        I did not blame Jane for her project told,
                        Though she had heard my sermon, and no doubt
                        Ought, as I told my flock, to dwell on that.
                        Then here again “the pleasures of the
                                world
                        That tempt the younger members of my flock.”
                        Now I think really that they’ve not enough
                        Of these same pleasures. Grey and joyless lives
                        A many of them have, whom I would see
                        Sharing the natural gaieties of youth.
                        I wish they’d more temptations of the kind.
                        Now Donne and Allan preach such things as these
                        Meaning them and believing. As for me,
                        What did I mean? Neither to feign nor teach
                        A Pharisaic service. ’Twas just this,
                        That there are lessons and rebukes long made
                        
                        So much a thing of course that, unobserving,
                        One sets them down as one puts dots to i’s
                        Crosses to t’s.
                        A simple carelessness;
                        No more than that. There’s the excuse—and I,
                        Who know that every carelessness is falsehood
                        Against my trust, what guide or check have I
                        Being, what I have called myself, an actor
                        Able to be awhile the man he plays
                        But in himself a heartless common hack?
                        I felt no falseness as I spoke the trash,
                        I was thrilled to see it moved the listeners,
                        Grew warmer to my task! ’Twas written well,
                        Habit had made the thoughts come fluently
                        As if they had been real—
                        Yes, Jane, yes,
                        I hear you—Prayers and supper waiting me—
                        I’ll come—
                        Dear Jane, who thinks me half a saint.
                    
                    
                    
                        A PAINTER.
                        SO ’tis completed—not an added touch
                        But would do mischief—and, though so far short
                        Of what I aimed at, I can praise my work
                        If I, as some more fortunate men can do,
                        Could have absorbed my life into one task,
                        Could have made studies, tried effects, designed
                        And re?designed until some happy touch
                        Revealed the secret of the perfect group
                        In a moment’s flash, could day by day have dwelt
                        On that one germinant theme, till it became
                        Memory and hope and present truth, have worked
                        Only upon that canvass where it grew
                        To the other eyes a shadow of what mine
                        
                        Had seen and knew for truth, it could have been
                        It should have been, yes should have been, in the
                            teeth
                        Of narrow knowledge and half?tutored skill
                        And the impotence I chafe at of my hand
                        To mark my meaning, such a thing as those
                        Who, stooping to me, “A fair promise, sirs,
                        In that young man—if he’ll attend to us,
                        The critics, he may hit the public taste
                        With a taking thing some day,” approve the points
                        And count the flaws and say “For a new man
                        ’Tis a fair picture,” while they’d throw themselves
                        In ecstasies before some vapid peepshow
                        With a standard name for foreground and the rest
                        A clever careless toying with the brush
                        By a hand grown to the trick—critics forsooth
                        Because they have reamed grammar—such a thing,
                        I say, as these should shrink from measuring
                        With blame or praise of theirs, but stand aside
                        And let the old ones speak, the men who worked
                        For something more than our great crown of art
                        The small green label in the corner, knew
                        Another public than our May?fair crowds,
                        
                        Raphael and Michael Angelo and such—
                        Whose works sold well too. They should have been
                            left
                        My judges whether something of the soul
                        That was their art had not been given me.
                        Ah well I am a poor man and must earn—
                        And little dablets of a round?faced blonde,
                        Or pretty pert brunette who drops her fan,
                        Or else the kind the public, save the mark,
                        Calls poem?like, ideal, and the rest—
                        I have a sort of aptness for the style—
                        A buttercup or so made prominent
                        To point a moral, how youth fades like grass
                        Or some such wisdom, a lace handkerchief
                        Or broidered hem mapped out as if one meant
                        To give a seamstress patterns—that’s to show
                        How “conscientious” that’s the word, one is—
                        And a girl dying, crying, marrying, what you will,
                        With a blue?light tint about her—these will sell:
                        And they take time, and if they take no thought
                        Weary one over much for thinking well.
                        A man with wife and children, and no more
                        To give them than his hackwork brings him in,
                        Must be a hack and let his masterpiece
                        
                        Go to the devil.
                        Well my masterpiece,
                        As to the present, is achieved at last;
                        But by what straining of a wearied hand
                        And wearied eyes and wearied aching head
                        Worn with the day’s forced work! And now I come
                        And fold my arms before it, and play the judge,
                        And am, though not content, yet proud of it.
                        And after all what is it? So much width
                        Of my best canvass made unserviceable,
                        Spoilt for the dablets, so much time defrauded
                        From my tradesman work. What will it gain for me?
                        And why I do not answer at first blush
                        Just “disappointment,” is that I have grown
                        Too used to disappointment now to set
                        A hope on any issue. I shall hear
                        My work observed with vacant hems and has,
                        And a slur of timorous praise. And I shall see
                        A quiet face or two light up with thought—
                        And these, although perhaps they think no more
                        Of the painter or his work nor care to keep
                        Remembrance of my unfamiliar name,
                        Will be my friends for the moment, and will note
                        
                        With a sort of kind regret where I fall short.
                        And some severer connoisseur will fume:
                        “Now here’s a man with a certain faculty.
                        The more shame for him! Were he some schooled drudge
                        Doing his best one would forgive the fault.
                        But here’s a harebrained fellow comes to us
                        ‘I am a painter I—no need to study—
                        Here’s genius at my back—splash, dash away—
                        I’ll win a fortune and a name at once,
                        And deserve them bye and bye?’ He ought to take
                        Two or three years at least of study, draw
                        More than he paints, scan how the masters did it,
                        Go to school in Rome. But no, his vanity
                        Pats his genius on the back. Pooh! He descend
                        To dull apprentice plodding! He take time
                        Before he paints for the world!—Fie on it though
                        To see a man so sin against his gift.”
                        And then another says “Yes he should wait,”
                        And another “Wait,” and “Wait,” and once more “Wait.”
                        Out on them fools! Do they know a man may die
                        Waiting? Waiting, when waiting means to starve
                        
                        Do they think of that?
                        What Ruth, my pretty one,
                        Come to learn what’s my trouble? Startle you,
                        Did I with sudden steps and speaking loud?
                        ’Tis nothing, dearest—only the old tale
                        That you and I keep fretting at, what cross
                        And spirit?killing work it is to slave
                        At these man?wasting trifles day by day,
                        Cutting one’s life in mess?pieces, and see
                        No better chance for freedom than to cheat
                        The fashionable world that chatters art
                        By some chance masterpiece into paying one
                        Enough to buy the time to wait and learn.
                        And then the critics say “You should have waited.
                        ’Tis the fault of the age, our young men will not wait.”
                        And the fashionable world says “To be sure—
                        The fault of the age! Indeed he should have waited:
                        We might have bought his pictures then:” and flies
                        With open purse, on a race for who bids first,
                        To its latest darling’s studio—takes all there,
                        If he did it awake, or sleeping, or by proxy,
                        At equal price. What matter? There’s his name!
                        
                        Ah Ruth! If I could only win a name!
                        And then, love, then!
                        For I know there is in me
                        Another power than what men’s eyes yet find
                        In these poor works of mine. But who can tell
                        If now I ever shall become myself?
                        My one believer, I have learned from you
                        To use that phrase: but what is a man’s self
                        Excepting what he is, what he has learned
                        And what he does? You make it what he hopes.
                        Well love, persuade me with your earnest voice
                        And look of long belief, this twentieth time—
                        Persuade me that the day we hope must come,
                        Because it is myself. I am worn out,
                        Sick to the heart. I need your love so much
                        Talk to me love; find fault; dispute with me,
                        With smiles and kisses ready all the while,
                        And your dear arms clinging to me; prophesy,
                        You happy prophet who can fill your eyes
                        With sunshine and see brightness where you will.
                        And come now, find me in my picture there
                        Something to praise; I can believe your praise
                        Although you love me.
                        No you cannot stay—
                        
                        Yes, yes, I hear the summons. If Blanche cries—
                        Poor Ruth! I could be jealous of your care
                        For the children, were it not so hard to me
                        To see you forced to play the handmaid to them.
                        Come back when the child sleeps.
                        Going she leaves
                        A darkness after her. Ruth, but for you
                        I could not paint a sunbeam, could not bear
                        To have a happy thought look out on me
                        From my own canvass: now because of you
                        I do not envy brightness.
                        Yet she says
                        And, I fear me, almost thinks it, my poor wife,
                        “If I had never come to burden you,
                        You might have won your way by now.” Ah well,
                        A sunless way without her, yet perhaps
                        It is a true sad word. I might have been
                        Without her what she’d have me be.
                        No, no—
                        A handier painter possibly, more apt
                        With nice true touches and the fearless brush
                        Exact without restraint, most certainly
                        A more successful man, but not the man
                        
                        My earnest Ruth believes in. Darling, you
                        Who, under all your pretty fitful ways,
                        Your coaxings and your poutings, have the strength
                        Of the noblest kind of women, helping strength
                        For any man with worth enough to use it—
                        You keep me to the level of my hopes:
                        I shall not fall beneath them while you live.
                        It was a good day for me when you came
                        Into my fretted life, and I thank God
                        It was no evil one for you. Dear wife,
                        If you had been one born to pleasant things,
                        Cared for and praised in a familiar home,
                        Not knowing what it is to say, “Well this
                        Costs sixpence, I can do without,” and “This
                        Is marked a penny and will serve the turn”—
                        If you had had one other in the world
                        To take up your dead father’s guardianship
                        And watch a little for you, then long since
                        I should have cursed myself who brought you here
                        To live on empty hopes and drudge the while.
                        But you are happier even in our want
                        And your enduring than you would have been
                        Still pining, smiling, on, the mere fed slave
                        
                        Of a cross idiot and her hoyden brats.
                        You were a fool, the mistress?creature thought,
                        To leave the comfort she had graciously
                        Designed to keep you in some half score years,
                        Raised salary and so forth, for a home
                        So poor as I yet had to give. But you
                        Still said “It will be Home” and you and I
                        Knew something, even then, by hope or instinct
                        Of the meaning of that common word which she
                        Poor soul, among her gewgaw drawing?rooms
                        Had never dreamed of. You are happy, love;
                        We have our many troubles, many doubts,
                        We are at war with fate and a hard world,
                        And God knows whether we shall overcome;
                        But you are happy, love, because you know
                        You are my happiness.
                        And I might say,
                        In the bitterness of these dull wearing days,
                        While like that poor caged squirrel in the street
                        I beat my ceaseless way and gain no step,
                        I have no other left me, were it not
                        That, even at this moment, the warm glow
                        Of yellow evening sunshine brightening down
                        
                        Upon the red geraniums she has placed
                        To feast my eyes with colour, bringing out
                        That line of shadow deeper on the wall,
                        With the exquisite half lights thrown from those white folds,
                        Softer than mists at sundawn, gladden me
                        With the old joy and make me know again
                        How one can live on beauty and be rich
                        Having only that—a thing not hard to find,
                        For all the world is beauty. We know that
                        We painters, we whom God shows how to see.
                        We have beauty ours, we take it where we go.
                        Aye my wise critics, rob me of my bread,
                        You can do that, but of my birthright no.
                        Imprison me away from skies and seas
                        And the open sight of earth and her rich life
                        And the lesson of a face or golden hair:
                        I’ll find it for you on a whitewashed wall
                        Where the slow shadows only change so much
                        As shows the street has different darknesses
                        At noontime and at twilight.
                        Only that
                        Could make me poor of beauty which I dread
                        
                        Sometimes, I know not why, save that it is
                        The one thing which I could not bear, not bear
                        Even with Ruth by me, even for Ruth’s sake—
                        If this perpetual plodding with the brush
                        Should blind my fretted eyes.
                        Would the children starve,
                        Poor pretty playthings who have not yet learned
                        That they are poor? And Ruth—
                        Well, baby sleeps?
                        Ah love, you come in time to chase some thought
                        I do not care to dwell on. Come, stand there
                        And criticise my picture. It has failed
                        Of course—I always fail. Yet on the whole
                        I think the world would praise it were I known.
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    JEANNE D’ARC.
                    SISTER ANNUNCIATA.
                    I. AN ANNIVERSARY.
                    II. ABBESS URSULA’S LECTURE.
                    
                    
                        JEANNE D’ARC.
                        TO me—to me! Dunois! La Hire! Old Daulon
                        Thou at the least shouldst stand by me—Oh
                            haste!
                        The soul of France is in me, rescue me!—
                        Turn back the flyers—Cowards, have you learned
                        These English can be conquered, yet you flee?
                        To me!—Oh! I am wounded! Oh! this time
                        We shall not sleep in Paris—
                        What is this?
                        Is this not Paris but sieged Compiegne?
                        Back, to the fort! This once we needs must fly.
                        In, in! They are closing on us—in!—Oh Christ!
                        The gate drops down! And I without, alone!
                        Open, the foe is on me. Help! Oh now
                        
                        I feel I am a woman and ’mong foes!
                        Oh save me!—
                        Oh you blessed saints of Heaven,
                        Do you come down to me again? You smile
                        A wondrous holiness, ineffable.
                        Oh what a brightness stars upon your brows!
                        It grows—it grows! I see you clearly now,
                        You who first sent me forth, and all this while
                        Have nerved me to be forward ’mid these men
                        Who press to carnage as a lightsome girl
                        Hastens her steps to where the dancers wait;
                        You who have warned me, counselled, comforted,
                        Given me persuasion and the gift to awe
                        And the strong soldier spirit of command;
                        My guardians and consolers, who, beyond
                        All other saints, have taken part for me,
                        Me and my France—St Catherine, thou pure
                        Thou holy bride, and brave St Margaret.
                        You bring me peace, dear saints, and I had need:
                        Oh help me from myself and these mad dreams.
                        Oh hear me, I have had most fearful visions:
                        I thought I fought before the walls of Paris
                        
                        And did not conquer—Oh the agony
                        Even to dream of that first shamed defeat!—
                        And then the dream was shifted: I was thronged
                        By furious enemies before the gate
                        Of Compiegne, and taken prisoner!
                        They were haling me along, and still I strove,
                        And strove, and strove. And all the while it seemed
                        As if by an awful prescience I knew
                        My waiting death, more dreadful than to lie
                        Shattered and gashed beneath the onward rush
                        Of the frantic horses spurred into our ranks,
                        And die amid the roar of English shouts—
                        Meseemed my living limbs were to be given
                        To scorch and writhe and shrivel in the fire—
                        I was to know like torment and like shame
                        With those who front our God with blasphemies
                        And loathsome magic—Ah! my head swims round
                        Still dizzy with the terror of my dream.
                        But you are come, you gracious messengers,
                        To chase the troubled visions that the Fiend
                        Tortures me with. Stay with me for awhile,
                        And let me feel your mystic influence
                        Thrill all my being into rapt delight:
                        
                        Then I shall feel in me a threefold strength,
                        And go forth eager in the morn, athirst
                        For the madness of the battle and the flush
                        Of conquest and the pride of leadership,
                        Go forth, as I am wont, to victory.
                        Oh you are dimmer!—Woe! woe! was my dream
                        But a confused remembering in sleep?
                        Where you were standing do I see the moonlight
                        Falling on prison?walls? Oh! I have waked
                        From the bewilderings of cruel sleep
                        To dreadful sharp reality. Woe! woe!
                        The chains are heavy on me! I am lost!
                        But which is dream then ? For it seemed to me
                        I woke, as I have often waked at night
                        From troubled fancies, and I saw those Holy
                        Who lead me, and my heart leaped with the thought
                        That I should raise the fortunes of our France
                        Yet higher in the coming fight. Yes surely
                        We give battle in the morning, surely they,
                        Those holy ones, they warned me even now.
                        They would not mock me. This must be the dream:
                        These chains, this prison, they must be the dream.
                        Oh Mother of the Blessed, hear me; come
                        
                        Down from thy throne ringed round about with angels,
                        Come from His side, that Holy One, our Christ,
                        And comfort me with love, and show me truth.
                        Oh! come, ye virgin saints, and teach me here,
                        A poor weak girl, lone in my helplessness,
                        Crying to you for that once strength you gave.
                        They come—Lady of Heaven, it is thou!
                        Oh! Mary?Mother, blessed among women,
                        For thy lifes sorrow’s sake deliver me
                        In this distress: Oh! show me which is truth.
                        The vision grows. Oh look! they show me all
                        My true career!—I see it—Yes, my home
                        In the far village. Those were dreamy days,
                        And pleasant till the visions made me know
                        My higher destiny and I grew restless
                        In the oppressive quiet. Waning—Gone!
                        Ah well, I would have lost a longer while
                        Gladly in that kind dreaming****Yes, my king,
                        So did he honour me when I declared him
                        Among his courtiers****Yes, so Orleans fell—
                        Oh! my brave glory! yes I beat them back,
                        These Englishmen that were invincible!****
                        Yes, so I set the crown upon his head
                        
                        In sacred Rheims. Oh noble! how the crowd,
                        Eager to kiss my vesture, touch me, throngs
                        Around me, me a simple peasant girl
                        Made first of women and of warriors
                        In all our France!—Hush, hush, vainglorious heart,
                        How often have the voices chidden thee
                        For thy too arrogant delight! Not mine
                        The honour, but the Lord’s who sent me forth.
                        I a mean herd?wench from the fields—what more?
                        But made God’s instrument, to show Himself
                        And not the power of man conquers for France,
                        How dare I boast? Oh! was it for this fault,
                        This foolish fault of pride, that check was sent?
                        What needs this vision of it? But too well
                        I keep the memory of that first shame,
                        My first defeat. Yes, Paris, I still fire
                        With angry blushes at thy name****And this—
                        Oh! but my brain whirls—whirls—what is it? Cloud
                        And dull confusion. Who is it that stands
                        Mouthing and gecking at me? Why now, Pierre,
                        Because, forsooth, thou art our neighbour’s son,
                        Must I be bound to dance with thee at will?
                        Why flout me with so stale a grudge, my friend?
                        
                        Is the face changed? It was Dame Madelon’s Pierre,
                        The poor good clumsy youth, whose suits and sulks
                        Had so passed from my mind, I thought I saw.
                        And now—I know it, the long fiendish sneer,
                        The sudden glare! Ah! so the vision grows
                        Perfect again. A trial call they this?
                        A pastime rather for their lordly hearts;
                        They bait the tethered prey before they kill.
                        Is it Christian, my lord bishop, so to taunt me,
                        Me innocent and helpless?—Ah! I look
                        But on a vision: I am here alone;
                        In prison and condemned! Ah me! the dreams,
                        They did not mock me. This then is the truth,
                        The prison and the chains—Christ! and the death!
                        Stay yet with me ye blessed.
                        They are gone!
                        They touched my forehead with their martyr palms;
                        And the dear Heaven?Mother smiled on them,
                        And the same smile on me. But they are gone,
                        And I am left unaided to my fate.
                        Was it for this that I was chosen out,
                        From my first infancy—marked out to be
                        Strange ’mid my kindred and alone in heart,
                        
                        Never to cherish thoughts of happy love
                        Such as some women know in happy homes,
                        Laying their heads upon a husband’s breast,
                        Or singing, as the merry wheel whirrs round,
                        Sweet cradle songs to lull their babes to sleep?
                        Was it for this that I forbore to deck
                        My beauty with the pleasant woman arts
                        That other maidens use and are not blamed,
                        Hid me in steel, and for my chaplet wore
                        A dented helmet on my weary brows?
                        Ah! I like other women might have lived
                        A home?sweet life in happy lowly peace,
                        And France had not been free but I content,
                        A simple woman only taking thought
                        For the kind drudgery of household cares.
                        But I obeyed the visions: I arose,
                        And France is free—And I ere the next sun
                        Droops to the west shall be a whitened mass—
                        Dead ashes on the place where the wild flames
                        Shot up—Oh horrible!
                        Oh! God, my God,
                        Dost thou behold, and shall these men, unjust,
                        Slay me, thy servant? Oh! and shall my name
                        
                        Be muttered low hereafter in my France,
                        A sorceress and one impure?
                        They say
                        I commune with the Fiend and he has led
                        My way so high. Yes, if he could do this,
                        And I, deserted as I am of God,
                        Might cease to war with him and buy my life,
                        And greatness—and revenge!—
                        Oh God! forgive
                        I sin. Oh deadliest sin of all my life!
                        Oh! pardon! pardon! Oh! have I condemned
                        My soul to everlasting fire by this?
                        My brain whirls—whirls—Forgive!
                        Oh see they come,
                        They touch me with their palms! She smiles again,
                        The holy Mother! Yes, they beckon me.
                        Now they are vanished in a cloud of light.
                        I shall not see them more: but I shall know
                        They will hold fast my trembling soul in death
                        And bear me to my home—a better home
                        Than earth has given me.
                        The dawn begins.
                        How fast the hours leap on towards the end!—
                        
                        Will the pain wring me long? Ah me! that fire!
                        They might have given me a gentler death.
                        The sound of footsteps! They are coming now.
                        No, they pass on—No, now they are at the door.
                        They are coming to pursue me to the last;
                        They will mock me once again with promises,
                        To buy from me the whiteness of my name
                        And have me blast it by my own last lie.
                        No matter; now they cannot bait me long.
                        My God, I thank Thee who hast chosen me
                        To be Thy messenger to drive them forth:
                        And, since my death was destined with the mission,
                        Lord of my life, I thank Thee for my death.
                    
                    
                    
                        SISTER ANNUNCIATA.
                        
                            I. AN ANNIVERSARY.
                            MY wedding day! A simple happy wife,
                            Stolen from her husband’s sight a little while
                            To think how much she loved him, might so kneel
                            Alone with God and love a little while,
                            (For if the Church bless love, is love a sin?)
                            And, coming back into the happy stir
                            Of children keeping the home festival,
                            Might bring the Heaven’s quiet in her heart;
                            Yes, even coming to him, coaxing him
                            With the free hand that wears his fetter on it,
                            Sunning her boldly in his look of love,
                            And facing him with unabashed fond eyes
                            
                            Might, being all her husband’s, still be God’s
                            And know it—happy with no less a faith
                            Than we who, ever serving at His shrine,
                            Know ourselves His alone.
                            Am I sinning now
                            To think it? Nay, no doubt I went too far:
                            The bride of Christ is more than other women;
                            I must not dare to even such to me.
                            They have their happiness, I mine; but mine
                            Is it not of Heaven heavenly, theirs of earth,
                            And therefore tainted with earth’s curse of sin?
                            Did Mary envy Martha? Oh my Lord
                            Forgive thy handmaid if her spirit lone,
                            A little lone because the clog of flesh
                            That sunders it from Thee still burdens it
                            With the poor human want of human love,
                            Hungry a moment and by weakness snared,
                            Has dared, with the holy manna feast in reach,
                            To think on Egypt’s fleshpots and not loathe.
                            Oh! Virgin Mother, pray thou for thy child,
                            That I who have escaped the dangerous world,
                            Rising above it on thy altar steps,
                            May feel the heavens round me lifting me,
                            
                            Lifting me higher, higher, day by day,
                            Until the glory blinds me, and my ears
                            Hear only Heaven’s voices, and my thoughts
                            Have passed into one blending with His will,
                            And earth’s dulled memories seem nothingness!
                            Ah me! poor soul, even here ’tis a hard fight
                            With the wiles of Satan! Was the Abbess wise
                            To set me, in the night too when one most
                            Is tempted to let loose forbidden dreams
                            And float with them back to the far?off life
                            Of foolish old delights,—yes, was she wise
                            To set me in the night?hush such a watch,
                            Wherein “to think upon my ancient life
                            With all its sins and follies, and prepare
                            To keep my festival for that good day
                            That wedded me out of the world to Christ?”
                            She has forgotten doubtless, ”tis so long
                            Since she came here, how, trying to recall
                            Girl sins and follies, some things of the past
                            Might be recalled too tenderly, and so
                            The poisonous sad sweet sin of looking back
                            Steal on one unawares.
                            Oh hush! alas
                            
                            How easy ’tis to sin! Now I have tripped;
                            Obedience must not question. But one learns
                            With every hour of growing holiness
                            How bitter Satan is against the Saints.
                            I muse if I, who of the sisterhood
                            Am surely, now that Agatha is dead,
                            The nearest saintly practice, most in prayer,
                            And most in penance, crucifying most
                            The carnal nature, till they point to me
                            With pride for the convent and some envy too
                            For themselves left lower in the race—if I
                            Am tripped so often, how then fare the rest?
                            Though doubtless Satan does not track so close
                            Until he fears one. But they are less armed:
                            Alas how he may break them! Poor weak souls,
                            How I shall pray for them: for bye and bye,
                            Doubtless, I shall be freer from the self
                            I have yet to guard, my victory will be won
                            And I shall tread on sin, invulnerable,
                            As the Saints do at last.
                            If I, that is,
                            Might reach the goal I strain at, the one goal
                            Ambition may seek sinless—though I faint
                            
                            The goal I will attain. I think in truth
                            My feet are on the road, and, let them bleed
                            Among the thorns, I still press on.
                            Perhaps
                            It is because she sees how strong I grow,
                            She gave me this ordeal, this the first year?day,
                            Out of the several, she has risked it. No.
                            She’d not have tried one of the others thus;
                            She sees I shall not fail. I cannot think,
                            Although she knows me her successor here,
                            She plans to lessen me from a renown
                            Of sanctity that bids to dwindle hers.
                            No—she is kind, there is no seeming in it,
                            And simply good, although no miracle
                            Of self?set discipline, and her meek mind
                            Would find a daughter’s merit glorying
                            The convent’s name glory enough for her—
                            She is my friend.
                            Ah! I remember me
                            In the first days—when I was sad and restless
                            And seemed an alien in a hopeless world,
                            All form and pious parrot?talk, a home
                            For stunting dull despair shut from the sun,
                            
                            A nursery to bloat the sick self in
                            To a mis?shapen God to feed whose fires
                            The loves and hopes and faiths, the very life
                            Of the young heart must perish, and I knew
                            For the best future nothing but a blank,
                            For then the present bitterness of death,
                            The horrible death in life—my first belief
                            In any comfort earlier than the grave’s
                            Came from a touch of tenderness in her,
                            Only a tone, a look as she passed by
                            Where I was sitting by the broken well,
                            Looking at the green growth that overslimed
                            The never heaven waters, thinking “this,
                            The image of the thing my life becomes,
                            Unlighted, unlightgiving, ignorant
                            Of sunflash and of shadow, with the slime
                            Of utter foul stagnation hiding heaven
                            As surely as its narrow walls fair earth,
                            And under all, chill, chill!” “God bless you daughter,”
                            She said; her usual greeting, but it came
                            With the kind of sound one likes to dwell upon—
                            A little trivial phrase in the right tone
                            Makes music for so long. “God bless you daughter”
                            
                            As if she meant it—and there was the touch
                            Of a mere womanly pity in her eyes.
                            So her blessing loosed the bands about my heart,
                            And the passion of tears broke out.
                            ’Twas the first time
                            Since the night before they brought me to my vows
                            In a passive dream; I think because since then
                            I had been hopeless, and it must have been
                            That the feeling of a human tenderness
                            Still folding me, made something like a hope,
                            Feeding my withering heart like water drops
                            Given the poor plant brought from the fresh free air
                            And natural dewings of the skyward soil,
                            Where its wild growth took bent at the wind’s will,
                            To learn indoors an artificial bloom
                            Or die. Before it had been too near death
                            For weeping—And the comfort of those tears!
                            I almost wish that I could weep so now!
                            No, no, I take again my wish, which was a sin;
                            It was no wish, a fancy at the most;
                            Lord, let it not be numbered with my sins!
                            What mere mad sin against the spirit, that,
                            If I could wish to lose my hard?won state
                            
                            Of holy peace. And wherefore should I weep?
                            For what endurance? I who have inhaled
                            The rich beatitude of my spousalship,
                            To the heart’s core.
                            But then I only saw
                            The human side, knew but the present loss
                            Of the outer bloom of life, and did not know
                            That, stripped of the flower?wings, the fruit grew on,
                            Yea, and to ripe to immortality,
                            In this sure shelter. Or I knew it, say,
                            As I know that bye and bye, when I am dead,
                            I shall be sunned in the grave on summer days,
                            While, if one now were standing in the frosts,
                            The chariest winter beam were something, all;
                            And what such summers waiting for the time
                            Of silence and of change? A sorry mocking
                            Of hungering hope with bitter dead sea fruit.
                            She preached to me, good woman, when she turned,
                            Catching the breath of my outswelling grief,
                            And, with the softened smile some mothers rest
                            Upon their children, came to me quietly,
                            And sat beside me there. No doubt she ran
                            
                            Her whole small simple round of eloquence;
                            I have heard it all since then, I think; but then
                            I did not hear—a murmur in my ears
                            That hummed on, soothing, like a lullaby.
                            And through it I perceived some scraps of texts,
                            And godly phrases, and examples drawn
                            From the lives of the saints, and wise encouragements;
                            And I wept on. But the warm touch of her hands
                            Nursing my right hand in them motherly,
                            And the feeling of her kindly neighbourhood,
                            These spoke a language that I understood
                            And thrilled to in my desolate mood. Through them
                            That heavy sense of prison loneliness,
                            Whether I moved alone or companied,
                            Was lifted from my heart, broken away
                            In the rushing of my tears; and even from then,
                            Wherefore I know not, I was moved to grope
                            Up from the dark towards the light of Heaven.
                            But ah the long ascent! It was enough
                            At first to learn the patience that subdued
                            My throbbing heart to its new quiet rule,
                            The hope of Heaven that bore down earth’s despair—
                            
                            But these were comfort, and the craving grew
                            As natural for them as the sick man’s
                            For the pain?soothing draught he learned perforce
                            To school his palate to. But then the effort
                            To be another self, to know no more
                            The fine?linked dreams of youth, the flying thoughts
                            Like sparkles on the wave?tops changing place
                            And all one scattered brightness, the high schemes
                            And glorious wild endeavours after good,
                            Fond, bubble?soaring, but how beautiful!
                            The sweet unreal reveries, the gush
                            Of voiceless songs deep in the swelling heart,
                            The dear delight of happy girlish hopes—
                            Of, ah my folly! some hopes too strange sweet
                            That I dare think of them even to rebuke—
                            Ah not to be forgotten though they lie
                            Too deep for even memory. Alas!
                            Even if I would, how could I now recall
                            To their long?faded forms those phantasies
                            Of a far, other, consciousness which now
                            Beneath the ashes of their former selves
                            Lie a dead part of me, but still a part,
                            Oh evermore a part.
                            
                            I do not think
                            There can be sin in that, in knowing it.
                            I am not nursing the old foolish love
                            Which clogged my spirit in those bitter days.
                            Ah no, dear as it was even in its pain,
                            I have trampled on it, crushed its last life out.
                            I do not dread the beautiful serpent now;
                            It cannot breathe again, not if I tried
                            To warm it at my breast, it is too dead
                            And my heart has grown too cold; the Lord himself,
                            I thank Him, has renewed it virgin?cold
                            To give to Him. I do but recognize
                            A simple truth, that that which has been lived,
                            Lived down to the deeps of the true being, is
                            Even when past for ever, has become
                            Inseparable from the lifelong self:
                            But yet it lives not with the present life.
                            So, in this wise, I may unshamed perceive
                            That the dead life, that the dead love, are still
                            A part of me
                            Nay do I fool myself?
                            Why do I fever so thinking of him?
                            Why do I think of him? What brought his face
                            
                            So vividly before me? Angelo,
                            Art thou in the night?stillness waking now
                            Remembering me, remembering me who came
                            A little moment into thy bright life
                            And seemed to make it brighter, and then passed,
                            Leaving no doubt a little cloud behind,
                            Till when? Till now? Till death comes with the end?
                            Or till the other’s smile had lighted it
                            With the rich rose of dawn to brighter day?
                            While she lies dreaming of the dainty dress
                            Ordered for next night’s ball, art thou indeed
                            Thinking, alone in heart, of former days,
                            And asking the dull hush to speak of me?
                            Or is it but a careless memory
                            Passing thy dreamy thought a moment long,
                            A wondering lightly “Is she reconciled
                            To the lot they gave her?” But, whate’er it be,
                            Surely some thought of shine came to me now
                            And called mine to thee.
                            Nay, it must not be.
                            Oh once my own beloved, now a mere name,
                            A name of something that one day was dear,
                            In an old world, to one who is no more,
                            
                            Vex me no more with idle communings,—
                            Love me, love her, what matters it to me?
                            I stand as far apart as angels are
                            From earthly passion—not by my own strength,
                            But by the grace shewn in me, and the bar
                            Of my divine espousal. Stand far off
                            Even in thought.
                            Yes, though this was thy word,
                            That long fond evening when we stole apart
                            Out of the music and the talking, when
                            We stood below the orange?boughs abloom,
                            And the sweet night was silent, and the waves
                            Were rocking softly underneath the moon,
                            Asleep in the white calm, and we, alone,
                            Were whispering all our hearts each into each:
                            “Eva, my Eva, darling of my life,
                            If they should part us still you are my all.
                            I will not love the other. She might bear
                            My name, gild with the purchase money for it
                            Our houses’ tarnished splendours, rear the heirs
                            Of its new greatness.—You, you, only you,
                            In your cold prison, would be wife to me,
                            Wife of my soul. Are we not one, love, so?
                            
                            They could not beat down that; and I would live
                            In a secret world with you, so that in Heaven
                            I could claim you boldly, ‘this was my own wife’
                            And all the angels know it true.”
                            Ah me!
                            How long that wild rapt promise hindered me
                            In my first struggles for the Saints’ cold peace,
                            Because he spoke it in a certain tone—
                            Sometimes he used it—that had a strange power
                            To thrill me with strange pleasure through and through
                            And leave long after echoes still possessed
                            Of something more than most tones, even his,
                            And easier to recall at will; and these
                            Remained with me; I could not quite forego
                            Their dangerous sweetness. So the Tempter came
                            Saying always “He too thinks of them” and I
                            Would be so weak, so wicked, that I thought,
                            “I cannot try to be in perfectness
                            One of the Heavenly Brides, lest I succeed
                            And, standing white?robed with the virgin train
                            Who in the after kingdom follow Christ,
                            See him and know him and am lost to him,
                            
                            Even there where the last hope was.”
                            But now,
                            No more my love for ever, now at length
                            In this more perfect day of my raised soul,
                            I can say calmly: “Though this was thy word
                            I do not bid thee honour it.” It was
                            The dream of a mad moment, let it pass:
                            I would not hold thee to it if I could:
                            I scale a heavenward height, and if I shiver
                            A little, just a little, in the snows,
                            On the darker days, should I for this descend
                            Into the earth?balmed valley and forego
                            The victories of my toiling steps, the crown
                            Of my long enterprize! No, though thy voice
                            Were thrice and thrice as eager?sweet as when
                            Long since it said “be mine in earth” to say
                            “Be mine in heaven” I could not wait for thee.
                            I go alone, wearing my spousal ring,
                            My bridal throne is ready.
                            But, although
                            I love thee now with only such a love
                            As a dead saint might love that looked from Heaven,
                            It is no sin that I should yearn for thee
                            
                            That thou mightst also rise and lift thyself
                            Out from the world, leaving its honeyed wines
                            That overglad the heart, its corn and oil,
                            For the barren mountain?summit near God’s stars,
                            In the cold pure air where the earth’s growths dwine off,
                            Leaving the joys of common life, the pride,
                            The beauty and the love; perceiving nought
                            Except the goal of such a holiness
                            As I would bid thee strive for. Ah! my brother,
                            If this might be, and we two, though apart,
                            Were one in such an aim!
                            But can I tell
                            If thou art Angelo whom once I knew?
                            She with her silly beauty, smiling forth
                            The brightness of her self?complacency
                            Till one might easily be taken in
                            And fancy she’d at least just so much heart
                            As served to wish one well with?may she not
                            By now have dazzled thee or flattered thee
                            Till thou hast given her thy heart for plaything—
                            All she could make of it! It might be so:
                            For there were times, when thou and I, poor
                                children,
                            
                            Were chafing impotent while stronger hands
                            Made havoc of our simple lovers’ plot,
                            That I half jealous, though I doubted not
                            Thy inmost faith to me, thought piteously:
                            “Ah but for the marvellous gold of those loose curls,
                            And the glitter of those crystal?brown strange eyes
                            Perfect in sudden glances and drooped coyness,
                            He might have made them know the task too hard
                            To bend him to their scheming.”
                            Yes, I feared,
                            Even while I said: “I wrong him by the thought”
                            My own own lover, like the warriors
                            In some old fight I knew of ere the lore
                            Of secular things grew babble talk to me,
                            Was dazzled in the eyes by the strong sun,
                            The sun that was her beauty, and so fought
                            As if in the dark and vainly.
                            Could it be?
                            I do not think it. In the days of love
                            One doubts because one loves, because one knows
                            One is too willing to be credulous:
                            But, now that there is no sweet weakness left
                            To daze my judgment, I can vouch for him.
                            
                            He, having, in the teeth of interest
                            And the worldly prudence preached from both our homes,
                            Chosen me to love, me with a mind and soul
                            And woman’s worth enough on me to love
                            In something more than pretty kitten’s play;
                            Me with some dusky beauty of my own—
                            If in all else made less by hers yet more,
                            I think, to those who care to see a life
                            Shew through the breathing mask, more by the power
                            (Mine and not hers let her be earth’s most fair)
                            To steal from gazing eyes the accurate sense,
                            Of parts and shapings of it and to leave
                            “The long impression”—thus he imaged it—
                            “Of a beauty like the sky’s on some rare eve,
                            When glow and shadow, and the luminous change
                            Of perfect?blended yet contrasted dyes,
                            And blueness of the ether, make a oneness
                            Of something higher than the different names,
                            We fit to different kinds of beauty hold
                            A meaning for; and we can only feel
                            The soul?deep influence, and cannot scan
                            
                            The several parts, nor say ‘the best is there’
                            Nor ‘I have seen sometimes a richer rose,
                            One morn a purer gold’; nor can retain
                            A perfect presence of it, but retain
                            Mid the deep memories that build up lives,
                            Though out of sight beneath and overlapped
                            By the hiding Present, a long consciousness
                            Of something known beyond mere perfectness.”
                            He, prizing me at this, he, knowing me
                            In my true self, and knowing that I loved him,
                            Could he turn patiently to a mere face,
                            A mere most lovely dainty?blossomed face
                            And statue?moulded body—only this?
                            Nothing to meet him in his higher moods;
                            Nothing to rise with him from the dull round
                            Of the drudging daily self; nothing to hold
                            The overflowings of his deeper soul;
                            No mind in which to measure his grave thoughts;
                            No thoughts with which to swell them. Could he drop
                            From the proud height of my love to such as hers,
                            Unconscious of the fall and well?content?
                            No: time may have perchance, (tho’ for his sake
                            I cannot hope it), levelled down to her
                            
                            His husband’s heart, but that were but the fret
                            And gradual moulding of the many days,
                            And over?mastering custom: she had never
                            That triumph on me.
                            Though my mother once,
                            (Breaking the shadowy twilight where I sat
                            Lest she should see me weep, with flouting light,
                            And the sad quiet of my lonely thoughts
                            With most unwonted icy comforting),
                            Bade me believe, because she had the proofs,
                            Or almost proofs, that Angelo was glad
                            To be compelled to her whom he would call
                            Even in my hearing ‘Fairest of the roses’
                            And, though he prized me in a certain sort
                            For the memory of a boyhood’s rash first love
                            And out of kindness to my love for him,
                            It was perceived by those who knew him best—
                            Nay more was growing common talk to them—
                            That his fancy for me palled apace and love
                            For the bright Giulia overmastered quite
                            The stress he put to hide it for the sake
                            Of humouring my weakness to the last,
                            And saving me from scorn’s deriding finger
                            
                            That mocks the maiden who is true too long
                            She said it, yes, just in such sudden words,
                            Unwavering: but I, did I believe?
                            Too much was said; no doubt a little less,
                            An inference, a little sharp?barbed hint
                            Touching my sometimes fears and making them
                            More real to me, might have served the need;
                            But such a tale was idle as the threats
                            Of the outside wind wild?storming in the dark
                            To one who sleeps well?housed. Why, all the more
                            Because he never shrank from giving praise,
                            To that most evident beauty though I heard,
                            I knew what worth the pretty plaything’s smiles
                            Were counted at in his more earnest moods.
                            She touch his heart! my very bitterest fears
                            Were that his mere man’s fancy might be caught,
                            And harm be done before the cloying came.
                            You did but anger me, proud mother mine,
                            With your pretended soothings. Was it worth
                            Having queened it for so many frigid years
                            Over your daughters’ lives and never once
                            Stooped to a little pet word, or a kiss
                            Beyond the formal seal that stamped receipt
                            
                            Of our daily homage paid, or just a look;
                            To shew you knew what mother?loving meant—
                            Was it worth to come down from your pedestal
                            At the last moment thus to play the part
                            Of a mere common woman softening down
                            Her girl’s weak grief at fate inevitable?
                            You could not do it either; for your talk
                            Of sorrow and of sympathy was such
                            As singing might be coming from one deaf
                            But newly learning speech by watching lips.
                            Yet, maybe, at the last she felt some pang,
                            Maybe, altho’ she would not change her purpose—
                            Could not perhaps—our uncle has some power
                            I think, beyond advising, in the house
                            He rules with her by such an iron rod,
                            And, once our destinies mapped out by him
                            What human will, what human suffering
                            Could alter them? “We have concluded thus”—
                            Swelling himself in the authority
                            Of priestly greatness and of guardianship;
                            “We have concluded thus”—and then my mother
                            Would nod assent, and what remained to us
                            His brother’s children, hers, but mute submission?
                            
                            But she, maybe, the parting near, was moved,
                            The mother?heart in her touched thro’ the frosts
                            Long custom had clogged round it; or else why
                            Should she at all have tried to mould my will
                            Into content? She might have kept her height
                            Of questionless command: what mattered it
                            If I should fret or no? Thus stood the case:
                            There were too many daughters in our home,
                            Too scanty portioning, and, with a name
                            So high as ours, need was that none should wed
                            But with the other noblest houses: then
                            It must not be that one of the three sons
                            Should be too poor to bear up from the dust
                            The honour of his heirship of long race:
                            And where were dowers for such brides, and where
                            Gold purses for the spending of such sons?
                            At least one dower might be saved, one girl
                            Must choose the cloister. Who but Eva then?
                            Eva who, wise with fifteen years of life,
                            Had recognized her call to saintly life:
                            Eva who, in her folly of eighteen,
                            Had chosen for herself such a mad match,
                            Impossible, with one even as herself
                            
                            Of an impoverished house, whose princely kin
                            Wise?judging knew the pair must never wed
                            And had a richer bride in hand for him.
                            What mattered it if I said ‘yea’ or ‘nay’
                            ‘It likes me’ or ‘it likes me not’? There stood
                            The argument, could weeping alter it,
                            Or a girl’s angers? Why should she have cared
                            To set herself a task so out of wont,
                            Unless she felt some yearning to her child
                            And fain would have me sorrow something less
                            And go from her in peace?
                            Yes, I will think
                            You did mean kindness and the comforting
                            That angered pride might give me in my need.
                            But, mother, had you known a little more
                            Of your child’s heart, of any human heart,
                            You would have known what bitter death in life
                            Your words believed would bring me, stabbing me
                            With the last despair of scorning while I loved.
                            And, since you could not fail to recognize
                            Something of your own pride retraced in me,
                            I marvel you saw not how you must rouse
                            Its strength against belief with such a tale.
                            
                            A meek prompt faith! for the blowing of some breaths
                            Of “thus they say”s to think oneself so slight
                            As to be brushed off like a clinging burr,
                            Shaken into the mud beneath his feet
                            By the man one honoured with one’s whole of love!
                            And more, I marvel that you did not feel
                            “Her Angelo is out of reach of scorn,
                            And she could not believe unless she scorned,”
                            And know untried the vainness of your talk.
                            Oh, only love, I never broke my truth
                            By questionings of yours, and you, I know,
                            Had in me that blind trust that was my right—
                            And yet we are apart. Oh! it is hard!
                            Has God condemned all love except of Him?
                            Will He have only market marriages
                            Or sprung from passion fancies soon worn out,
                            Lest any two on earth should partly miss
                            The anger and distrust that haunt earth’s homes
                            And cease to know there is no calm till death?
                            None for who lives the outside waking life:
                            We are calm here, calm enough. Oh Angelo
                            Why am I here in the ceaseless formal calm
                            That makes the soul swell to one bursting self
                            
                            And seem the whole great universe, the while
                            It only sees itself, learns of itself,
                            Hopes for itself, feeds, preys upon itself
                            And not one call comes to it from without
                            “Think of me too, a little live for me,
                            Take me with thee in growing nearer God”?
                            Why am I—?
                            Am I mad? Am I mad? I rave
                            Some blasphemy which is not of myself!
                            What is it? Was there a demon here just now
                            By me, within me? Those were not my thoughts
                            Which just were thought or spoken—which was it?
                            Oh not my thoughts, not mine! All saints of heaven
                            Be for me, answer for me; I am yours,
                            I am your Master’s, how can I be Satan’s?
                            I have not lost my soul by the wild words.
                            Not yet, not yet.
                            Oh this was what I feared.
                            The night?watch is a long one and I flag,
                            My head is hot, I feel the fever fire
                            Of weariness before the languor comes.
                            I am left prey to Satan’s snares for those
                            Who too much live again the former life
                            
                            In the dangerous times of unwatched loneliness.
                            He lurks in those retrodden paths, he makes
                            His snaky coils of all these memories,
                            Clogging them round my spirit. Is the work
                            Of long long months, of years, undone in a night?
                            Alas! the ordeal is too hard for me.
                            I am shut out in the dark! where is the oil
                            To feed the virgin’s lamp? What! are these tears
                            Only of water? They should be of blood
                            Fitter to weep my sin in.
                            I will wait;
                            I cannot gather those old histories.
                            My mind is wandering. I cannot tell
                            How far I went, nay, if I had begun.
                            I cannot think. But I can weep and pray.
                            Surely I may break thus much the command
                            And yet obey. Oh I may stop to pray
                            And to repent. Oh I may weep and pray,
                            So broken as I am. All saints of Heaven
                            Pray with me, for me, pray or I am lost.
                            I lost! I lost! Heaven’s mercy on me, lost!
                             * * * * * *
                            Have I slept? But no, I think I was in prayer
                            
                            The whole time that I knelt—unless indeed
                            A little heavy moment at the last;
                            It is too chill for sleep. How strange and grey
                            The morning glimmers! What an awful thing,
                            Although one feels not why, the silence is
                            When the new creeping light treads on the dark
                            Like a white mist above it, and beside
                            Its leaden pallor hollow blacknesses
                            Lurk, shifting into limp uncertain shapes.
                            No place so long familiar but it seems
                            Weird and unwonted in such eery hours.
                            I wish my taper could have lingered out,
                            Until the yellow dawn. Was that the wind
                            Hissing between the jarring lattice crannies,
                            Or a whispering voice in the room? Hush there again!
                            Nay ’tis the wind. What voice should come to me?
                            I hear no voices, I; no visions yet
                            Break on my trancèd eyes when I seek God.
                            I have not risen so high; neither I think
                            Fallen so at Satan’s mercy that he dare
                            Front me with open tokens of the watch
                            Which he keeps whensoe’er one of his foes
                            Keeps holy watch alone. Yes, there again!
                            
                            It is the rising wind?gust. How it moves
                            The shadow of that pine?bough on the wall,
                            Just growing plain?defined upon the square
                            The window makes of light across the room.
                            One might see it like an arm now, finger stretched
                            In act to curse—a withered witch?like arm
                            Waving its spells. But then another shadow,
                            The cross from the mullions, lies athwart it there
                            And that is steady. So the cross prevails
                            Over the curse.
                            Nay I am idle now
                            Wasting my vigil time in childish pranks
                            With unloosed fancy. Though I seem too tired
                            To school my wayward thoughts it must be done,
                            They must not wander thus. But this grey glint,
                            Not light nor darkness, but between, like dreams
                            When one has slept and struggles to awake,
                            Unfits one for the real things of thought.
                            I wonder is the spirit?world more near
                            In the mystery of twilight than when day
                            Floods its broad reckless sunlight everywhere.
                            One feels it nearer. In these creeping
                                hours
                            One might so readily, when one had prayed
                            
                            With a spiritual passion half the night
                            To have some message sent one, something shown
                            That should reveal one clearly chosen His
                            To glorify Him to the world, be fooled
                            By eager faith and think that in the dusk
                            One saw the longed?for vision, or one knew
                            A voice inborne upon one’s soul; while yet
                            The high revealings were not granted one
                            Found too unworthy still. Sometimes I think
                            For me there is that danger—not to?night,
                            I am so heavy with the weight of sleep
                            Upon my struggling lips—no not to?night;
                            I feel too far from God even to be duped
                            By poor rapt fancy, communing with shadows,
                            Exulting ignorant in the dread deceit
                            Which sets in place of God’s most marvellous blessing
                            A mocking and a curse.
                            Yet why a curse?
                            If honour grow to God and nought be falsed
                            Save something in the powers of one poor mind
                            That dreams and is the holier and more glad,
                            What were so much amiss? Why it might be
                            That God works so upon his messengers,
                            
                            Not giving them the visions, as they think,
                            In some true substance, heavenly, made pure
                            From the earth matter, yet left evident
                            To eyes and ears; but giving to their souls
                            A consciousness, nay why not say a dream,
                            Real because He wills, not in itself,
                            Having no outward counterpart? And thus—
                            Sometimes I think it, pondering on the lives
                            Of some of those most favoured—they might say
                            “I heard, I saw,” and speak Heaven’s perfect truth,
                            And yet be dreamers in the human sense.
                            Dreamers! and I who fear to dream, and pray
                            To be saved, as from a lurking enemy,
                            From my too eager self! But, if ’twere thus
                            That God revealed Himself, what should one think
                            Of keeping guard against one’s passioned hopes
                            For fear of self?deceit? Would that be war
                            Against oneself or God? Why, self deceit
                            Would be that God deceived one, would be truth
                            Beyond the truest human yea and nay.
                            It rather seems one should be effortless,
                            A leaf upon the river, or a leaf
                            At the will of the unwarning winds of heaven,
                            
                            Yes, could one, being in a state of grace,
                            Grow vacant of all will and merely wait
                            In a moodless passive lull, what likelier
                            Than that such were the moment to receive
                            The glow spiritual, and that the quick tide
                            Of thoughts and rapt imaginings flooding in
                            Upon the soul upbreaking from its hush
                            Were not one’s own, but Heaven’s? Needs there voice
                            Heard with the ears, or shape seen with the eyes,
                            Or aught in contact with the body’s sense,
                            To make the spirit’s high realities?
                            Who knows what visions are? Why should I fear
                            To think I see and see not? If the Lord
                            Be pleased to press upon His handmaid’s soul
                            Revealings of His glory, should I urge
                            Our crude material tests and then “If dreams
                            Then these were nothings”? But such dreams vouchsafed
                            Must be—can I err in thinking this?—God’s facts,
                            Beside which all we know by outward proof
                            Were liker nothings, mere clay images
                            To evidence to the lower human life
                            What the divine life in the saint’s freed soul
                            Perceives as souls perceive in Heaven.
                            
                            And yet
                            Signs outward have been proved: some have been seen
                            By the eyes of many, crowned with marvellous light,
                            Or in their presence lifted from the earth.
                            There have been visible tokens—was there not
                            Our own St Catherine who received the wounds
                            In an awful mystery, bearing them till death?
                            Or could such be a constant vision pressed
                            On the eyes of all who looked? Yet scarcely that.
                            Still she and such as she would need no proofs;
                            Would know when Heaven was open to
                                them—proofs
                            Are for bystanders; but when lonely saints
                            Unwatched, in still communion with their God,
                            Kneel silently and have forgotten earth,
                            Need the outward sense bear part in ecstasies
                            Sent to the soul or—?
                            What have I to do
                            With questioning knotty matters hard for me
                            A babe in the faith? The dawn is mellowing
                            A little gold into its leaden lights:
                            My time for retrospect creeps to its end,
                            And I cannot think, although I know I dreamed
                            
                            A something of my old life in the night,
                            That I have met the order given me,
                            To the true fullness. Let me try at least
                            Somewhat more like confession of the faults
                            That should be to me in this better state
                            Each a distinct and hated memory.
                            But ah! it is so hard to summon them!
                            Would I were not so weary!
                            Fainting star,
                            Shivering above the strip of presage dawn,
                            Do you tremble at the glory stealing on
                            In which the world will lose you presently?
                            You are like one dying, one who chills and fears
                            While Heaven is closing round to hide his life,
                            He knows not how, with God. Why, it is darked:
                            A little cloud come on it—one might say
                            Death on it, and that when it issues thence
                            It will be flooded with the waiting glory
                            As the saint’s soul is.
                            So the martyrs passed—
                            The blackness of an hour of agony,
                            And then the eternal light, the warmth, the love,
                            The triumph! Ah the second Catherine,
                            
                            Whose painful course I keep before my eyes
                            As one we who live late may still achieve,
                            Has left a sadder wearier history
                            Than the first, the Alexandrian saint’s. To live
                            A few short lifeful years made glorious
                            By the open courage daily fronting death,
                            By battle in God’s name, and victories
                            On souls fought from false gods, and then to die
                            In the highest victory God has given His own,
                            Die His before the eyes of thousands, die
                            In honour that earth cannot parallel,
                            Nor Heaven itself surpass, die martyr?crowned,
                            The glory of the Church to the end of time,
                            The marvel of the onlooking heathen world!
                            Yes, that, if in this dull indifferent age
                            That owns the creed and neither makes nor mars
                            But lets the saintship grow in the shade and then
                            Scores it to its own credit, such a life
                            Could find a place and such a death be earned,
                            That were the leadership to follow forth
                            With one’s whole will and passion. Not perplexed,
                            I think, would such a stirring conflict be,
                            Like that my slow life wages in the dark:
                            
                            And then the grander ending! Yet the years
                            Of patient war on sin and the poor flesh,
                            Of the second Catherine, won her ecstasies
                            Not less than tranced the other, and at last
                            She had her meed of honour, and her name
                            Is all I ought—Oh but I am too fond
                            In my aspiring when I say so much—
                            Is more than all I ought to hope for mine
                            Among names everlasting.
                            And why not
                            My name among the holy ones like hers?
                            Can I not fast and pray, tear my scarred flesh,
                            Keep vigils day and night, dim my tired eyes
                            With constant weepings, stint my earthly heart
                            Of its most innocent food and starve it numb
                            With ceaseless self?denial, check my life
                            Even in its holiest vents? What could she more?
                            And I, weak as I am and prone to faint,
                            The fever of young life in the free world
                            So newly passed from me, I do not shrink
                            From the sharpest discipline. These many months,
                            Not always fainting, I have schooled myself
                            Upon her rigorous pattern—God alone
                            
                            Knows with what strained endurance—and the proofs
                            Of my hardwon advance are not withheld.
                            At times I feel my soul borne up to Heaven
                            In holy rapture and I seem to breathe
                            A life that is not earth’s: at times a hush
                            Falls on my being and I feel at hand
                            The Holy Presence, feeling nought beside,
                            Dulled to all passing round me: and at times
                            An influence is upon me and the fire
                            Is kindled in my heart and my words break
                            Into exultant praises, bursts of love,
                            Or else in warnings and in passionate pleadings
                            Torn out with sobbings and with eloquence
                            That is not mine and urges me myself
                            Even more than the awed sisters who press round,
                            Weeping and shaken to the very souls,
                            And know not what to think of the strange power
                            That thrills them through and through. The mother says
                            “’Tis a good gift—let it have vent, my child;
                            A blessed gift for bettering your soul
                            And ours;” but I perceive that secretly
                            She holds it more than that. The other day
                            
                            She said—a speech so venturous for her
                            That she must long have weighed it—“Daughter, I know
                            That God has work for one like you to do,
                            Although I know not what: prepare for it:
                            Be patient, but be ready.” And I knew
                            A reverence in her voice, as though she spoke
                            To one above her.
                            “God has work” she said.
                            Would it were come! I hunger for my work,
                            And see none nearer than my coming rule
                            Over this convent, none more glorious
                            Than the restricting some small laxities
                            In the general discipline. A petty task
                            For which to spur oneself.
                            And yet I know not—
                            To carry such a change as I have planned
                            To be, as ’twere, through the new saintly practice
                            The second founder of our sisterhood,
                            Perhaps of our whole order, were this not
                            A work to be remembered, work worth me?
                            A troubled one perhaps: the better then.
                            More room for zeal for God, and, overcoming,
                            
                            More to have overcome.
                            Enough to do.
                            The mother, pious as she is, falls short
                            In courage to constrain less pious wills,
                            And wavers at a tear or a chafed look.
                            She is content moreover, sees no lapse
                            In the rigour of our system. ’Twill be mine
                            To bring the stricter laws, to wake the glow
                            Of a new zeal among the sisterhood
                            And fan it into flame, to check the growth
                            Of such self?sparing in the duller sort
                            And baby prattlings and small baby joys
                            In the lighter?natured as we have here now.
                            They must have longer vigils, sharper fasts,
                            Be more alone, have many hours for silence
                            Being together, learn to find their rest,
                            Their pleasure and their converse all in prayer.
                            Our novices must have their freedoms clipped;
                            They are spared too much at first, and spared too long;
                            They need a separate monitress, less lax,
                            Less pitiful?hearted than the mother is,
                            Yet loving them no less, one I shall choose
                            
                            Among those of the sisterhood most true
                            To the new type, one of the saintly band
                            Who, gathering round the flame I shall have lit,
                            Will keep it living and fan on its course
                            Until it soars a beacon to the world,
                            A pure accepted altar?fire to Heaven.
                            I plan and plan, as if in all the years
                            That have to run till then there were not time
                            To fix my ceaseless purposes in shape,
                            And look not meanwhile how these minutes lose
                            The purpose given them and grow too few.
                            The morning flush has broken on the clouds
                            While I sat blindly watching, and wanes off:
                            The shimmering light is broadening into day:
                            The night is gone—another night laid by
                            To wait for us in the sepulchre of Time
                            With his dead children that return no more,
                            Until they rise in witness on The Day
                            To show us as we were when they beheld.
                            The night is gone—and I how have I used it?
                            Ah me! I think, amiss; but I know not.
                            I call to mind a night?long wilderment
                            Of memories and dreams, and some regrets—
                            
                            I fear me much some semblance of regrets,
                            And a great penitence. Or am I wrong?
                            Did I fall asleep and dream the penitence?
                            For how did I so greatly sin? And yet
                            I do not think sleep snared me, for my mind
                            Was all absorbed, and when ’tis thus the body
                            Is triumphed over. Then I dimly know
                            Some deep mysterious moments—as if then—
                            How was it? Nay I have forgotten all;
                            It is but like recalling waking dreams
                            After a slumbrous night has dropped on them.
                            But this I think, I cannot cross myself
                            And say “I have performed the allotted task,”
                            And take the innocent hour of sleep allowed
                            Before the matin chime. I have not used
                            The sharp assaying meant, but in the place
                            Of pitiless self?rebuke and searchings out
                            Have dreamed, I know not what, a misty world
                            Of shapeless thoughts that stand like new?made ghosts
                            Between the dead and living. Is there time?
                            I must redeem the time. Go, tempting sleep:
                            My rest shall be to earn rest for my conscience.
                            
                            How the day brightens on!
                            “My ancient life
                            With all its sins and follies.” Well I set
                            That which for over?long was my all life
                            First on the roll. “My folly and my sin”
                            What else, since for so long it darkened Heaven
                            Out from my tear?blurred sight? But dwelling on it
                            Even now comes nearer sin than penitence.
                            Let the poor love?tale go! Oh never more
                            Let the treacherous memory stir me; it was that
                            That broke my calm last night and—
                            Let it be,
                            Oh idle heart! Why wilt thou tempt thyself?
                            The dead wasp stings lying in the faded rose
                            When the chills have killed them both—Let the wasp rot:
                            No need to risk a sudden hand to crush it.
                            Let the rose rot too, though its last breath be sweet,
                            Let it drop into the hiding mould?heaps dead
                            With the dead burden that is danger in it.
                            And so, the dead love reckoned, what stands next?
                            Ah the long haunting voice that called my sin
                            
                            Of taking back the life once meant for God
                            So darkly, deadly, near—that only hope
                            Called it not quite—the sin against the Spirit!
                            No, that, the horror of so many months,
                            Had been the foremost, worst, the all, to reckon,
                            Hiding all others in its awfulness,
                            If I still owned it with the strange despair
                            My uncle’s words, denouncing, terrible,
                            Made my soul’s bitter portion once. But now
                            That dread is past. I was not guilty thus.
                            I know it, in my inmost heart I know it.
                            Good Father Andrea—you who, with your gift
                            Of patient comforting, first lighted me,
                            From that dim horror—you whose pastoral hand
                            Came, while I seemed to wait and care no more,
                            Lone on the dead sea of despondency,
                            And the chill waters lapping round their prey
                            Bore me indifferent to the shores of Hell,
                            Came heaven?blessed and stayed me?I know now
                            With fuller certainty than you could give,
                            By God’s own comforting I think. I look
                            Clear?eyed upon that past. The fault was
                                theirs
                            Who thought it wise to rate as purposes
                            
                            The fanciful longings of an almost child
                            Let fall at fluent moments, wise to call
                            Her natural yearnings for some scope beyond
                            The round of foolish struttings petty forms,
                            And petty prides and petty policies
                            Vocation for a ministry to Heaven.
                            What knew I of vocation? I was galled
                            By the bird?snare fetters round me, longed to fly
                            On wild young wings towards the freer Heaven;
                            And, seeing, that the cage hung on the tree
                            Was higher than the nest upon the ground,
                            Said sometimes “Yet at least if I were there,”
                            Because I so might reach a purer sky
                            And breathe untainted air; but most of all
                            Because I longed to soar.
                            An almost child:
                            Ah yes. how young I was until my love
                            Awaked me woman. What had I perceived
                            Of the world’s earnest? I could lose myself
                            In the high rhapsodies of eager youth,
                            Flame at the wrongs and weakness of the times,
                            And shudder at the sin; could dream the while
                            Of heroisms I no more understood
                            
                            In their plain natures than those names of evils
                            I hurled my angers at; could hope and plan
                            Impossible better things and, imaging
                            A present Paradise of the whole world
                            If men would only think a few new thoughts,
                            Talk reasoning unreason, fiery?tongued,
                            On its blurred good and bad. But what knew I
                            Of its bad or of its good? My reasonings,
                            Silent or spoken in unguarded bursts,
                            What were they but a fluent ignorance
                            Nursed upon dreams?
                            They said, “She is early ripe:
                            Fifteen, and yet she judges of the world
                            As one who has all things tried and found them vain
                            In a grave experience: ’tis a happy thing
                            That she accepts the convent: we are borne clear:
                            She accepts it freely, being mature to choose.”
                            And the deep world I thought I weighed and spurned
                            As wanting in the balance, nevertheless
                            Had shown me nothing of its meaning yet:
                            And I had not seen its brightness, had not known
                            What pleasure meant, when saying “It is naught,”
                            Nor happiness, when saying “Heaven’s is all;”
                            
                            And had not known the triumphs of sweet praise
                            On the general tongue and ringing to the ears
                            Of one dear over all, and had not known
                            The gladness of dear hope, and had not known,
                            Had not conceived, what love was, love?sought love,
                            When saying “Life is weary every day
                            And the wide world is barren to the heart.”
                            They were too prompt to take my girlish fits
                            Of dream enthusiasm for the dream I made
                            Of an ideal perfectness withdrawn
                            From reach of sin and sorrow in the hush
                            Of convent calm, and turn them to their will.
                            The fault was theirs. But I, knowing my God
                            Hears me and judges, say I never framed
                            A set intention, spoke one purposed word
                            Pledging me to the life I ranked so high.
                            ’Tis doubtless true, as Father Andrea says,
                            That my accuser bore me in his heart
                            Guiltless of that great blame and did but think
                            To daunt me to submission by a dread
                            So horrible. “Yes, yes, believe me, daughter,”
                            The good man always said, “’tis as I told you:
                            His Eminence spoke from prudence, seeing there
                            
                            A way to scare you to your good, no more;
                            Take this for proof—only you must not know
                            How it came to me—he said, even on the day
                            You took the vows, it would have pleased him more
                            If you, instead of flaunting girlish scorn
                            At a certain great alliance hinted yours
                            If you so pleased, had let it be your choice
                            Before the convent.”
                            So I take the proof
                            It fits with what his dullard Princeliness—
                            When he deigned to think that I, although less fair
                            Than the sister he had bought, might please his moods
                            With a more apt variety and reward;
                            His condescending choice by more applause
                            For how his princess played her brilliant part,
                            And, nothing doubting my delight, with mouths
                            Of secrecy and eyes significant,
                            Blinking owl mystery, and “Trust to me”
                            And “Never fear I’ll bring the matter through”
                            Confided me his project—seemed to assure
                            As if he had tried his way, “No convent, no;
                            This queenly Eva must not hide from us;
                            She is to shine in the world. Let her but smile
                            
                            And put a little hand in mine; I promise
                            That from that moment none shall frighten her
                            With the hateful veil.” And when indignantly
                            I turned on him “And the betrothal, sir,
                            Already fixed with Leonora, that
                            Is a mere mock it seems, a promise given
                            To come for an hour of pastime one fair day
                            That may be broken for some light excuse,
                            Some merrier fooling coming in the way!
                            What pretty trifle have you on your tongue
                            To turn it daintily as a courtier should
                            To our mother and my uncle?” He laughed low.
                            “Leave it to me, child. They are my good friends,
                            And Leonora has a lovely face,
                            And, were she sister to my wife, might have
                            A pretty dower. Ask if they’re content
                            When I have told them you are.” Add to that
                            A hundred trifles not detected then
                            In their joint significance, which now summed up
                            Make evidence—well, for them or against?
                            Which shall I say? What matters it to me,
                            Except to show that torturing charge, tricked out
                            A bugbear for my conscience, meant no more
                            
                            Than the noises nurses make behind the wall
                            To frighten children quiet in their beds?
                            So let that pass, it need not swell the score.
                            But other sins? the many, what of them?
                            No easy reckoning this. Too well I know
                            My youth was girlish?wayward, too well know
                            My heart fed too much on the things of earth:
                            I know that many follies, many faults,
                            Had scarred that early life that seems so like
                            An innocence in looking back on it:
                            But how to say ”In this and this I sinned—
                            Here evil dashed the good—there all was evil,”
                            Seems as if, coming from a woodland path,
                            One should essay to chronicle the thorns
                            Set on the briar rose?trees, count the size
                            And order of the flint?stones by the way
                            Upon the moss?banks and the grassy rims.
                            They were there, one saw them, one remembers that,
                            But one thinks more of the roses.
                            Well but pride,
                            My sin of pride—which we of our old house,
                            Following its long traditions, arrogate
                            A prerogative to ourselves, a loyalty
                            
                            Done to our race—my sin that most to me
                            Seemed virtue?like, that grasped so deep a part
                            Of my natural life that its mere name pronounced
                            Stands for a thousand separate confessions—
                            Let it take its fitting place, and be my shame
                            That was my ill?placed glory. Poor fond fool
                            To plume myself on having missed the grace
                            Of Heaven’s high humility! and then
                            He made the fault so dear, he, when he said
                            He loved me for it—that still summer?day
                            When first was spoken what we knew so well
                            For long before, when a too welcome chance
                            Had lost us from the others laughing on
                            Along the olive slopes, and we two found
                            The boat upon the little silent lake
                            Left all alone, and stole it from its place,
                            And let it drift into the happy shade
                            Beneath the bank where the acacias pushed
                            Their boles into the water through the trails
                            Of creeping briony and red roses drooped
                            Lush sprays above my head. He said it then
                            When I, in the childishness of happy love,
                            Had whispered on his breast that question old
                            
                            And meaningless as the song the linnet sings,
                            The question that glad lovers love to ask
                            And answer and hear answered: “Tell me, love,
                            What made you love me first?” “Perhaps it was,
                            My own proud Eva, that same queenly pride
                            Which, jesting, I have blamed you for, that pride
                            Which keeps you nobler?lived than other women.”
                            “My own proud Eva,” that was how he called me
                            In many a stolen whisper afterwards:
                            “My own proud darling”—and my idle heart
                            Was ever beating to the pleasant rhythm,
                            And I loved my pride because he loved it in me.
                            Oh! many and many sullen self?despises
                            And frettings at myself and weary moods
                            Of half?revolt and utter hopelessness,
                            When even penitence was tired away
                            And I was only angry, since have paid
                            The forfeit of those self?deceiving days;
                            And I have felt my closest being wrung
                            By the very chains I heaped on it myself
                            To bow it to the need; and I have striven
                            In twofold anguish, torn in my racked mind
                            Between the natural and the new?learned will;
                            
                            And I have sickened at very victory
                            Loathing my lowliness. Ah me! those days
                            How long they were! how cruel! But, I thank
                            The grace of Heaven for it, I endured,
                            I overcame. My pride is crushed at length
                            Into the dust that fits it, and my foot
                            Presses its writhing neck; never again
                            Shall it rise up to chafe and weary me
                            With the old onslaughts.
                            Pride, yes; and, pride confessed,
                            One has confessed a humour over apt
                            To sudden scorns and high?flown discontents
                            And the petulance of disdain. But anger’s self,
                            A deadly sin, is nothing more than these;
                            And there too am I guilty.
                            Little bird,
                            Flitting so daintily upon the sill,
                            Hast thou come to tell me with thy matin chirp
                            That all the day?world is astir? I know,
                            But I am fettered to my drowsy thoughts;
                            I cannot gladden to the sun like thee.
                            Chirp, chirp, how glad thou art. Do the dull nights
                            Seem long now in these autumn times? But then,
                            
                            Birdie, thy days are never over long.
                            We cannot say so much, we the world’s
                                lords:
                            Often the weary never?ending days
                            Burden us helpless with their dragging weight.
                            Thou art happier than thou knowest—all the more
                            Because thou dost not know that thou art happy.
                            We never wear our happiness so light,
                            Always oppressed by our strong consciousness
                            Whose deeps lie so near pain.
                            Already gone?
                            Yes, fly, wee wanderer, back to thy blithe grove
                            Warm with the earliest sunshine mellowing
                            The curves of spreading tree?tops. Out of sight
                            So soon?—no, on that cypress.
                            What do I
                            Watching the idle rovings of a bird,
                            With vacant purpose?
                            I have thought too long,
                            I lose myself What wonder? In one night
                            To live back all one’s youth—though mine was short.
                            And yet it seems a long long age of life
                            Remote by longer ages. Strange it is
                            That the brief exquisite mood of a deep bliss
                            
                            Which, being lived, seemed to be some few hours,
                            Seems, being lost, as if a long life’s whole
                            Had passed in it. ’Twas but a year or so,
                            Count it by days upon the calendar,
                            And now—
                            Oh living days! oh happy days!
                            Oh days adream with happiness!—adream—
                            Adream—I am with you—Ah yes—adream
                            I am with you
                            * * * * * * *
                            What was I pondering
                            Before this drowsy languor stole my will?
                            Let me remember.
                            Yes the sins and follies
                            Of my vain youth. But I had almost done—
                            Or had I? Where was I in the blurred page
                            Whose half?forgotten fragment?facts from days
                            That were no more all faults than all good deeds
                            I am bidden read in the dusk that time has made?
                            Ah me! how to bethink me? When there grows
                            The counterfeit of some large landscape known
                            In past familiar days upon that sense
                            Which seems an inward memory of the eye—
                            
                            Grows, at the plainest even, half as if
                            One looked upon it with the former sight—
                            If one were bidden break the vivid whole
                            Into its several parts traced point by point,
                            Or more, if one were bidden duly note
                            The rocks that broke the smoothness of the lake,
                            Or the black fissures on the great snow?hills,
                            Or say the pools along the marshy wastes,
                            How the thought?picture would become perplexed
                            Into a shifting puzzle, and the sight
                            Would ache that vainly tried to scan by units.
                            Even so it seems to me when I essay
                            To singly look upon the marring flaws
                            That foiled my youth’s best virtues, or on those
                            That of its evil made the blackest scars.
                            Weary, so weary of the effort! Nay
                            I will remember! Well, my girlish days
                            Were full of faults—were doubtless full of faults—
                            Were full of faults: but what were the faults’ names?
                            I am forgetting what I seek—their names?
                            Why there was many a paltry selfishness—
                            Many no doubt, for I was often shamed
                            To be so much below the self I dreamed—
                            
                            Only I cannot call them singly back.
                            And there were pettish quarrels, girlish?wise,
                            With one or other of the rest at home,
                            Oftenest with Leonora, though, I think,
                            We chose each other most, and she has kept
                            My memory dearest of them; she alone
                            Remembers my old name?day, comes to me,
                            As if it still were festival to me,
                            With flowers, and calls me Eva.
                            Does she guess,
                            I wonder, that I could have stolen her greatness?
                            Poor Leonora, would she have lost much?
                            Wife’s sister to the prince instead of wife;
                            That dowry he designed her for amends,
                            To make her welcome to some simpler home—
                            Perhaps with love with it, such as we hoped
                            When we were lovers—Yes, perhaps with some one
                            Who could have taught her smiles: she only laughs.
                            I would I knew her happy now! She says
                            She is most happy: but she says she knows
                            Nothing worth sorrow.
                            Nothing! Nothing worth
                            The weeping out one’s life for! Nothing worth
                            
                            The wearying after in a waking dream
                            Of all one’s days, the straining to one’s heart
                            As a mother her one child, her one dead child,
                            Although a plague had stricken it and the end
                            Were her own dying! Nothing worth a sorrow
                            Dearer than any future joy could be,
                            Stronger than love, oh! longer lived than love,
                            Than love itself, a sorrow to be lived for
                            Liked love itself, to be one’s closest life!
                            If only one were free to sorrow thus!
                            Oh to be left my sorrow for a while,
                            Only a little while! to weep at will!
                            Oh let me weep a while if but for shame
                            Because I cannot check the foolish passion,
                            Because I weep despite myself. Alas!
                            Oh Lord my helper, when shall I find rest?
                             * * * * *
                            How sweet those roses smell! Look, Angelo,
                            That cluster of red roses pictured back
                            From the still water. See! see! Catch that branch
                            By your left hand—the boat will drift away!
                            How the boat rocks! how it rocks! Am I ashore?
                            I thought I was in the boat with you. How it rocks!
                            
                            Oh Angelo!
                            What is it? Where am I?
                            Who was it screamed? Was it I?
                            I have been dreaming—
                            How plain it was at first! We in the boat
                            On the still lake, just as we were that day,
                            The roses drooping on us, and, far spread
                            On the clear water, greenness of the trees.
                            A strangely real dream’ And then the change—
                            The tossing waters I ashore alone
                            Watching—and then—oh! that white anguished face
                            Uplifting from the waters as they heaved
                            About him sinking!
                            Whence came such a dream?
                            He is with Giulia happy. I——
                            Am here
                            Vowed to the convent, vowed to Heavens service
                            And happy in the faith of Heaven’s reward.
                            I have not quite forgotten Whose I am,
                            And in the waking day can call to mind
                            What higher lot is mine and be in it
                            In peace.
                            But yet I would I had not seen
                            
                            That haggard face. I fear me many days
                            Will find it haunting me. It was too like
                            The look he gave me when our eyes last met,
                            When all was over, and there was for us
                            No farewell but that sudden chance?caught look
                            In a busy street, and then we had passed on.
                            The chapel bell at last. Never its sound
                            Has fallen kinder on my ear. Now comes
                            The rest of prayer; and so the day begins
                            Its round of holy duties, and my strength
                            Will grow again towards them. It will pass,
                            This querulous weakness with my weariness—
                            It has passed; I am strong; I am myself;
                            My God did but forsake me for a while.
                            He hears, He calls me to Him at the shrine.
                            He will forgive me, me whom He has chosen;
                            He will fold me in His love. Am I not His?
                            But yet I would I had not seen that face.
                        
                        
                        
                            SISTER ANNUNCIATA.
                            II. ABBESS URSULA’S LECTURE.
                            My daughter, do you guess why I chose you
                            As my to?day’s companion for the hour
                            I warm me in the winter sunshine here,
                            Sitting where many sleep whom I have known
                            My new?come novices like your young self?
                            I am an old woman now, sadly infirm,
                            My senses failing, but I sometimes catch
                            A whisper never meant to reach my ear.
                            I heard yours yesterday. You “think it strange
                            That I should choose to haunt the burial ground
                            Alive: ’twere time enough when I am dead.”
                            A careless speech, dear child: if you had thought,
                            You would have phrased your wonder differently.
                            But I will answer it. So many years
                            I have been old that it is out of mind
                            How long I have been face to face with death:
                            And by God’s mercy I have long lost fear.
                            None of us should fear death: a nun’s true life
                            
                            Begins in Heaven; you should remember this.
                            But I have custom to my aid; at nights
                            When I lie down I think “It may be sleep
                            Or may be death,” and close my eyes in calm;
                            And when the sun falls warmest in the day
                            I have myself brought here, and often think
                            How soon I shall be here asleep in Christ,
                            And do not find it an unhappy thought.
                            And there are more companions here for me
                            Than in the convent. For I am so old
                            That there is no one in the convent now
                            Who saw me come, excepting sister Clare,
                            And she bedridden. Yes, no doubt, my child,
                            I have outlived my life and seem to youth
                            A sort of ghost already—just a ghost
                            From old old days, and so I haunt the place
                            Where many like me rise to be with me:
                            I feel them near me here. Poor child, you shrink.
                            Nay, if the blessed spirits really came
                            In presence near us, it were cause for joy:
                            I’d have you long for such revealings given
                            From the higher world. But I meant not so much;
                            Only the thoughts of them and memories
                            
                            That seem to reach me from these quiet graves.
                            There are graves there from which, had I more strength,
                            I could read you many histories which, perhaps,
                            Might move you more to what I fain would teach
                            Than I can do.
                            See, there is one. Look left,
                            The corner grave beneath the sycamore,
                            That with the cross a little fallen slant.
                            There sleeps the saintliest creature! had she lived
                            The Church would surely have enrolled her name
                            Upon its calendar. She was to be
                            Abbess here after me, so was it planned,
                            And often I felt shamed to think how far
                            My fervent?souled successor would surpass
                            My poor endeavours for the convent’s good,
                            And how more far surpass them in the life
                            Set for a pattern to the younger nuns.
                            But she was more than holy?lived; on her
                            Came wondrous power from heaven, we knew not what,
                            If inspiration or mere eloquence
                            Moved by a fervour strange to common souls.
                            
                            Myself and many others have at times,
                            Feeling strange influence working in our hearts
                            While she, the rapture on her, spoke and spoke
                            And took authority on her, believed
                            She was a chosen messenger of God,
                            And almost looked to see some miracle
                            Declare her to us. She had visions too,
                            But these came later: she was near her end
                            When they began; but that we did not know.
                            She died one summer—well, well, I forget
                            How many years ago—before your birth.
                            Yes, on a summer evening I know,
                            For the sunset light came full into her room,
                            And ’twas the one next mine. She died one summer;
                            And some months earlier, at this time of year
                            But on a day most different from this,
                            All rain and chill and dreariness, they came
                            And woke me in the morning, telling me
                            Sister Annunciata had been found
                            Stretched in a swoon, and now so long remained
                            Rigid and speechless that death must be near.
                            She had had a vision then, the first she had;
                            
                            She told me of it with her first faint words
                            As she recovered. Some one came, she said,
                            Who had been dear to her, and, whispering close
                            Beside her bed where she lay taking sleep
                            After a half?night’s vigil, tempted her
                            To pray to heaven that heaven might be for her
                            Eternal life with one she once had loved—
                            Whether the same who spoke I gathered not;
                            She said “Ah! make me not remember now
                            Whom the saints’ selves have bidden me forget,”
                            When I asked her of that matter. Well, she said,
                            While she was struggling in a sort of maze
                            Between a wish to shriek the prayer aloud
                            And a half?sense of something more than her
                            That checked it, and the voice was making moan
                            “Oh Eva do not lose us our last hope,”
                            She heard a cry that clanged out like the burst
                            Of treble organ pipes when the high strains
                            Take up the Gloria in our Easter mass,
                            “Annunciata wake, wake.” Starting up,
                            Still sobbing, as she said, she knew a dream
                            Had troubled her: but there stood, where the light
                            That trembled dimly from the cloud?barred moon
                            
                            In a gap of sky just fell upon the folds
                            Of their white raiment, two pale shimmering forms
                            Whose faces at the first she did not see.
                            And, when assured they were not also dreams
                            Or fancies of her fevered eyes and brain
                            In the sudden waking, she believed them Angels.
                            But when one spoke she knew—though by what sign
                            She could not tell me that first time—they were
                            St Catherine of Alexandria
                            And our St Catherine of Sienna, each
                            Holding the other’s hand. Which spoke the words
                            She knew not—Afterwards she grew to mark
                            Her visions more distinctly; that first time
                            She was amazed and troubled. These the words:
                            “We have rescued thee, but henceforth take thou heed
                            Lest thou be left to struggle by thyself
                            And fall. Thy heart unfaithful to thy Lord
                            Remembers, and God says to thee ‘Forget.’”
                            And then they made as if they would have gone,
                            Yet turned to her again and said “Approach
                            And feel our presence, that thou mayest be sure
                            We have been with thee.” But, as she advanced,
                            A terror came upon her, and she fell,
                            
                            And knew no more.
                            Thenceforward oftentimes
                            She had most wondrous visions: holy saints
                            Appeared to her, oftenest of all those two
                            Whom she saw first, and heavenly harmonies
                            Waked her of nights, and voices spake to her.
                            And every day we saw her saintlier,
                            And felt her growing more apart from us,
                            As one marked out for deeper purposes
                            Than we could fathom. Yet she still remained
                            Humble among us; always she preferred
                            The lowest offices, and eagerly
                            Abased herself, “I have been proud,” she said,
                            “And even proud of pride; my penitence
                            Is to be meaner than the meanest here.”
                            Ah well! you may believe that none of us
                            Would so account her. Though I kept her down
                            To the rule of strict obedience like the rest,
                            Believe me that, but for the honour due
                            Unto my office, I perceived myself
                            So poor beside her, so unworthy even
                            To kiss her garment’s hem, I could have knelt
                            And cried “Oh saint, take rule upon us all
                            
                            And let me be thy servant;” but I knew
                            What duty my high office laid on me.
                            But think of her, proud as she well might be—
                            She came of the Albizzi—young as you,
                            Renowned already for the liveliest wit
                            And wisest, after woman’s sort, then found
                            Among the brightest ladyhood of Rome,
                            Talked of for beauty too. She, with so much
                            Already tasted of earth’s sweetest cup,
                            And so much more yet brimming to her lips
                            At the moment ’twas withdrawn, gave up her life
                            So wholly unto Heaven that, still on earth,
                            She seemed to see the brightness of God’s face,
                            And was as if bedazzled by the light
                            Blind to all lower things; and so to her,
                            It was as if in earth was only heaven.
                            How plain I see her dying! You may know
                            She died in happiness. Through several months
                            She saw the visions, they came oftener
                            And oftener, until, towards the last,
                            She saw them nightly. Sometimes too they came
                            In the broad daylight, when she would be lost,
                            As she was often, in her prayers alone
                            
                            In the silent chapel. When the summer grew
                            Towards its fall they left her utterly,
                            And she, already paler than you see
                            St Barbara in the picture in the choir
                            And looking nearer death, she drooped at this,
                            Stricken with anguish; for she read in it
                            A sign of wrath divine against some fault
                            Her holy soul discerned in the perfectness
                            Of a most singularly holy life.
                            So the blow fell on her, and she soon knew—
                            The first of us she knew, and silently—
                            That she was dying. Then—she knew not why,
                            For the voices never came again—she felt
                            That she was once more in the grace of God,
                            And a great peace fell on her. This she told
                            When she sent for me on the day when first
                            She did not rise at dawn but quietly
                            Lay on her bed and said “Death is at hand.”
                            Three days we watched her weakening. All the while
                            We seldom heard her speak; she lay asleep,
                            Or wept or smiled half?sleeping. On the fourth
                            She roused and thanked me—thanked us all for care
                            And watchings in her illness—me besides
                            
                            For some old kindness, something said or done,
                            I could not rightly gather what she meant,
                            At the time of her first coming. This I know,
                            Her thankfulness, so long kept in her heart,
                            Uttered at such a moment, dwells in me
                            A lesson for my guiding, and I hope
                            That I have seldomer failed in gentleness
                            And a mother’s sympathy for the young souls
                            New to our holy bondage who, may be,
                            Are sad and restless for a little while.
                            I said to her “My daughter, I was blessed,
                            Beyond my knowing, when a word of mine
                            Was sown to such ripe fruit in you.” Her eyes
                            Looked earnest at me ”Mothers smile like you”;
                            And that was all. She spoke not much again,
                            Nor aught to be remembered, but, till day
                            Was passing into sunset she was with us,
                            Lying so still we scarcely could discern
                            Whether she waked or slept. The sunlight fell
                            Right on her bed at evening, and I thought
                            The yellow beams too strong upon her eyes;
                            I moved to shade them, then she took my hand,
                            Just touched it faintly, for her strength was gone,
                            
                            “Such happy rest” she said, “God’s rest” and smiled,
                            Then fell asleep. And presently one said
                            “She is dead,” and then another “She is dead,”
                            And we perceived she was no more with us,
                            Although the smile was strengthening on her face.
                            Some thought it was a wonder nothing strange
                            Was noticed at her death?bed; none of us
                            Would have thought it any wonder had there been
                            Tokens from Heaven plainly granted her
                            Before us all, and she had been shewn forth,
                            As one whose name was henceforth to be famed
                            With more than human honour. But God’s will
                            Was not to crown our humble convent here
                            With such a glory.
                            When she was laid out,
                            I took my niece’s baby secretly
                            To touch the body, thinking that, perchance,
                            There might be virtue in it, by God’s grace
                            And with our many prayers for the poor child,
                            To give its poor blind eyes their sight. Poor child,
                            It was not so to be.
                            Now will you learn
                            A hope from that most holy life? Well, she
                            
                            Who was as I have told you, had at first
                            A restless heart and angry at restraint,
                            And looked, as you may do, with wistful eyes,
                            Back to the world behind. I know not why—
                            She came of her free?will, even like myself
                            Who loved the quiet of the convent best
                            Quite from the first—and like you too, you say,
                            Who do not love it yet, I think. She might,
                            Had she so chosen, have become the wife
                            Of one whose wealth and greatness were the theme
                            Of all the gossipries of Rome: but she
                            Came here and brought her proud and wayward heart,
                            To fret and chafe at her imprisonment,
                            For many days. I have told you of the end:
                            Do you not think it worth your envying?
                            And who can say ’tis not within your reach?
                            But be persuaded, at the least, of this,
                            That you may learn her joy in heavenly things,
                            And know at last even such a peace in death.
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    THE SNOW WASTE.
                    WITH THE DEAD.
                    
                    
                        THE SNOW WASTE.
                        
                            I SAW one sitting mid a waste of snow
                            Where never sun looked down nor silvering moon
                            But far around the silent skies were grey,
                            With chill far stars bespeckled here and there,
                            And a great stillness brooded over all.
                            And nought was there that broke the level plain,
                            And nothing living was there but himself.
                            Yet was he not alone, there stood by him
                            One right, one left, two forms that seemed of flesh
                            But blue with the first clutchings of their deaths,
                            Fixed rigid in the death?pang, glassy?eyed,
                            Turning towards him each a vacant gaze.
                            And he looked on them blankly, turn by turn,
                            With gaze as void as theirs. He uttered speech
                            
                            That was as though his voice spoke of itself
                            And swayed by no part of the life in him,
                            In an uncadenced chant on one slow chord
                            Dull undulating surely to and fro.
                            And thus it ran.
                        
                        
                            “Ye dead who comrade me amid this snow
                            Where through long æons I drag me to and fro,
                            I speak again to ye the things I know
                            But, knowing, cannot feel, that haply so
                            I may relight in me life’s former glow
                            And thaw the ice?bound tears in me to flow,
                            If I might into sentient memory grow
                            And waken in me energy of woe.
                        
                        
                            “For there is left in me full memory
                            Of things that were to me in days gone by,
                            And I can read them with my inward eye;
                            But like a book whose fair?writ phrases lie
                            All shapely moulded to word?harmony
                            But void of meaning in their melody,
                            Vague echoes that awaken no reply
                            In my laxed mind that knows not what they cry
                        
                        
                        
                            “And I can reason duly with my thought,
                            And am not lessened of its range in aught,
                            Can reckon all the deeds that I have wrought
                            And say, ‘Here lurked the canker taint that brought
                            The plague whereby thy whole man was distraught,
                            Here with a grace of good the act was fraught,
                            A dew of love here slaked the desert drought,
                            Thy sin in truth hath here the vengeance brought.’
                        
                        
                            “So can I reckoning keep of woe and weal,
                            And mine own self unto myself reveal
                            In perfect knowledge: but I cannot feel.
                            And all the past across my mind will steal
                            And leave as little trace as the swift keel
                            Upon the lake’s cleft waves that seamless heal:
                            Cold memory can with the old things but deal
                            As with the creatures of some show unreal.
                        
                        
                            “I know that I was bent beneath the weight
                            Of wearying sorrow, or grew wroth with fate,
                            Or was with triumphing and joy elate,
                            Or bore towards another love or hate,
                            
                            And ask, ‘What were these that had power so great,
                            These senses in me in my former state?’
                            And mouth their names out in my hollow prate
                            To rouse with them my heart inanimate.
                        
                        
                            “Because I know if I one pang could make
                            Of sorrow in me, if my heart could ache
                            One moment for the memories I spake,
                            The spell that is upon me now might break,
                            And I might with a sudden anguish shake
                            The numbness from it and perceive it wake,
                            And these be no more bound here for my sake
                            But slumber calmly in their silent lake.
                        
                        
                            “Then I like other men might pass away,
                            And cold could no more gnaw me when I lay
                            Amid these snows a painless heap of clay,
                            And, though the sharp?tongued frosts my skin should
                                flay,
                            I should not feel, no chills on me could prey
                            And gnaw their teeth into my bones for aye,
                            As now is my long doom that will not slay:
                            I should know no dull torture in decay.
                        
                        
                        
                            “Ye dead who follow me, I think that ye,
                            If ye have any being save in me,
                            Must have much longing that such end should be
                            To my long wandering, that ye may flee
                            To the deep grave I gave ye and be free
                            From bondage here, and in death quiet be,
                            If ye can know and loathe the bitter lee
                            Ye drink from my dregged cup by That decree.
                        
                        
                            “Yet hear, if ye can hear, if ye have might,
                            Ye dead, to wake my heart from its strange night,
                            Hear now and waken it while I recite
                            That which hath brought on it this icy blight,
                            So I may come to mean my words aright
                            And not, as now, like some dull purblind wight
                            Prating by rote of shadow and of light,
                            Or like an idiot echoing wisdoms trite.
                        
                        
                            “What love is now I know not; but I know
                            I once loved much, and then there was no snow.
                            A woman was with me whose voice was low
                            With trembling sweetness in my ears, as though
                            
                            Some part of her on me she did bestow
                            In only speaking, that made new life flow
                            Quick through me: yet remembering cannot throw
                            That spell upon me now from long ago.
                        
                        
                            “I only know it was, forgetting how,
                            Nor can remind me why my soul should bow
                            Before her beauty, nor can gather now
                            What charm her nobleness of eye and brow
                            Had with such queenship o’er me to endow;
                            My memory can keep count of look and vow
                            But nothing of their spirit re?allow.
                            I know, dead woman, that my love art thou.
                        
                        
                            “I look on thee and him with equal mind.
                            I know him too: some years my heart was twined
                            In love round his. He was of noble kind,
                            He had no rival, leaving all behind;
                            Me too he passed, and then my love declined.
                            But when I knew him first the boy would wind
                            His younger arms round me, and I would find
                            Pride in his triumphs next to mine assigned.
                        
                        
                        
                            “He grew in strength and in all daring fast
                            Until, as if a sudden chill north blast
                            Had found me sleeping in the sun, aghast
                            I woke and knew my glory overcast.
                            No feat or skill in which I all had passed
                            But he passed me. My triumphs had been glassed
                            In eyes of all the fairest and I classed
                            First and alone; now I to him was last.
                        
                        
                            “In all ways last: he was more deft, more gay,
                            More comely, apter in the minstrel lay;
                            The brightness of my life had passed away:
                            I heard his praises echoed day by day:
                            And she, from whom no thought of mine could stray,
                            Set all her pride on him: I heard her say
                            Amid the maidens, ‘None, seek where ye may
                            Will match my brother till his hair is grey.’
                        
                        
                            “When she was wed to me I sought in vain
                            By hid degrees her love from him to gain;
                            It only seemed to move in her such pain
                            That need was on my hatred to refrain
                            
                            From open showing of its bitter strain,
                            Albeit if thought could slay he had been slain,
                            He nothing doubting. So did all remain
                            Until the corn was yellow on the plain.
                        
                        
                            “And even mother earth had loved him more
                            Than me; his wide sun?flooded meadows bore
                            A golden host that numbered mine thrice o’er;
                            His vines a richer bloom of promise wore;
                            The very river turned it from my shore
                            That, plenty bringing, it had merged of yore,
                            To make his pastures richer. Wroth and sore
                            My heart grew in me, burning at its core.
                        
                        
                            “Before our door, beneath the palm?tree wide,
                            One eve I sat alone with my young bride,
                            For he, who mostly then was by our side,
                            Some days had gone beyond the lake’s far tide
                            Where the great city basked her in her pride,
                            And, thinking of him, she was absent?eyed,
                            And ever in our dearest talk she sighed
                            ‘Great God and Light my brothers journey guide.’
                        
                        
                        
                            “Because a pilgrim had passed by that day
                            And told us that the golden city lay
                            Beneath a ghastly plague’s devouring sway,
                            The living could not hide their dead away,
                            They writhed in human heaps of foul decay,
                            The glutted vultures lingered o’er their prey
                            Along the marts, poor fools with minds astray
                            Howled blasphemies or leaped in ghastly play.
                        
                        
                            “And loathsome taint, he said, lurked in the air
                            For miles around, and whoso harboured there
                            Must look no more to life, unless he were
                            Even to miracle the Heaven’s care.
                            So, while we watched the red lake’s sunset glare,
                            I only joyed that he might in that snare
                            Be caught and die: but she could only spare
                            Half thoughts for me, and sighed for him some prayer.
                        
                        
                            “I knew that there was gladness in my eyes,
                            But hers were clouded with sad reveries:
                            I spoke to her of our fair destinies,
                            She told her fears for him in low replies:
                            
                            ‘Yes love him still, still me for him despise,’
                            I cried, ‘What wife have I unless he dies?
                            Would that he might.’ In startled sad surprise
                            She answered, weeping out a voice of sighs.”
                        
                        
                            But a clear solemn voice rose over his,
                            “Thou speak it.” And I saw a lucent form
                            As of a spirit making to itself
                            A pure white brightness, drooping over him
                            Towards that shape of a dead woman, cry:
                            “Thou, speak it, if so any ghost of love
                            Might yearn in him towards thee.” Her dead lips
                            Moved not, nor moaned with any breath of words,
                            Nor passed there any stir across her face,
                            But a sweet plaining voice came out from her,
                            A voice as of one weeping at the heart.
                            “Do I not love thee first and most, my own?
                            And art thou bitter that my heart has room
                            For him, my brother? Dost thou chide the sun,
                            Our light of life and soul, that he will shine
                            His brightest on him even as on thee?
                            Wilt thou chide love that is our second light
                            Because it shines upon him from my heart
                            
                            Only a little less than upon thee?”
                            Sadly the voice died off. He, vacantly,
                            As though he knew her not, met her dead eyes,
                            Then with his old unpassioned utterance spoke.”
                        
                        
                            “These were her words and thus did her voice sigh;
                            Mine hurried from me in a fierce reply
                            That burst from out my lips with sudden cry,
                            As though itself had willed to speak, not I,
                            My secret thought: I wished all love might die
                            If else he in her love must press me nigh:
                            Since he must bless my foe, the sun on high
                            Might dwindle into darkness utterly.”
                        
                        
                            There cried a voice, “Speak thou his very words
                            That he may hear them spoken as he spoke,
                            Hear his words, laden with his hateful doom,
                            In thy voice that he hated: so some ghost
                            Of passion might awaken in his soul.
                            Speak thou the words.” And I saw stand by
                                him
                            A form of darkness, like a tempest?cloud,
                            Waving towards that shape of a dead man
                            That he should speak. And voice came from that dead,
                            
                            As from the woman, moving not the lips
                            Not waking any life in the glazed eyes,
                            “Thus didst thou say, ‘Rather might all love die
                            Out from the earth for ever than warm him!
                            Rather might all love perish from my life
                            Than have him wound into thy love with me!
                            And I do hate the sun though he be God.
                            What love or thanking need I to this God,
                            Since he but makes me one amid the all?
                            I curse him. Would that all his vaunted light
                            Were utter darkness, rather than that he
                            Alike with me should shine on him I hate!’”
                            So the voice ceased in tempest. But he looked
                            One moment on that corpse’s livid face
                            With a dull dreamy loathing in his eyes,
                            And in the moment they were cold again
                            With the old quiet nothingness of gaze,
                            And he spoke on again in shadeless rhythm.
                        
                        
                            “These were the words wherein I did invoke
                            Thy doom upon me, naming even the stroke
                            Of this long vengeance. It was his voice spoke
                            Thy words again. If for the moment woke
                            An impulse in my breast to burst its yoke
                            
                            And leap out through the clogging frosts that choke
                            Its well?springs, it but seemed as if they broke;
                            Still do those frosts my stagnant life?blood cloke.”
                        
                        
                            Then the dark shadow cried, “Lo I have failed.
                            I cannot wake him even by his hate;
                            He is not given me but bears such doom
                            As was awarded him by his own words.”
                            And the fair brightness cried, “And I have failed
                            And he, alas! is left to his dread doom.”
                            And both passed out from him; who still spoke on.
                        
                        
                            “And while my words yet on the echoes played,
                            The clouds that singly through the blueness strayed,
                            Hurled into one a sudden darkness made;
                            A shrilling whirlwind all the palm?tops swayed,
                            Then stillness. Horror on our spirits weighed,
                            And I stood awe?struck, while she knelt and prayed.
                            Then through the dark we heard, and were afraid,
                            A slow voice speak the doom upon me laid.”
                        
                        
                            Called then a voice that was as though it dropped
                            From the far stars and rose from the deep snows,
                            And was in all and over all at once:
                            
                            “Hear once again: this was the doom pronounced:
                            ‘Because thou hast cursed love which is a life
                            And is God’s greatest gift to souls on earth,
                            All love shall die from thee; thou shalt not know it
                            Even in thought. And, since thou hast blasphemed
                            That which is God to thee, and cursed the day,
                            Thou shalt have lost all part in day. And know
                            That herein lies a curse more than thy mind
                            Can fathom yet. Yet this of hope is given,
                            Thou hast until tomorrow’s sun be sunk
                            For penitence: so may this less doom be,
                            To live thy life alone in heart and blind
                            But yet to die at last as all men die.’”
                            He listened calmly, and again spoke on.
                        
                        
                            “One came at noon and told that he to flee
                            The plague had turned him homewards and would be
                            Once more with us before the great lake sea
                            Was flushed to the red evening skies. Then she,
                            I saw it, in her joy lost thought of me
                            And could forget a moment That decree.
                            I went, unwatched to set my passion free;
                            Perhaps, I thought, unwatched my weird to dree.
                        
                        
                        
                            “I turned me home at noon. The house seemed lone,
                            No greeting voice made answer to my own,
                            But through the hush I heard a frequent moan.
                            traced it where I found her anguish?prone,
                            Her writhing length athwart the cushions thrown,
                            So left to die, for all in dread had flown:
                            The black plague?roses on her cheek had blown.
                            I knew my weird’s first working on her shown.
                        
                        
                            “I did not fear the plague, who inly knew
                            The doom that had been meted out my due
                            Must fence me from it though all else it slew:
                            I held her till the death?films came to glue
                            Her swollen lids apart: my cold hand drew
                            Them o’er her faded eye’s dull glazing blue:
                            I still watched by her while the first plague hue
                            Upon the corpse’s face a blackness grew.
                        
                        
                            “It was at the first evening hour she died;
                            And I, so waiting by my dead one’s side,
                            Thought angrily of him who homewards hied,
                            And joyed that now at least the linkings tied
                            
                            Between us since his sister was my bride,
                            Now she was dead were snapt asunder wide.
                            At length I heard his voice without that cried,
                            And I went forth and smilingly replied.
                        
                        
                            “I said, ‘Go in, thy sister was distressed,
                            Long waiting for thee, and I bade her rest:
                            I think e’en now her eyes are slumber?pressed:
                            But thou, go clasp the sleeper to thy breast,
                            Let her be wakened by her looked?for guest:
                            She said not seeing thee she slept unblest,
                            And named thee last half?dreaming; do her hest,
                            Obey the call; ’twill be a goodly jest.
                        
                        
                            ”I led him to her softly: his fresh eye
                            Could only glimmering outline yet descry,
                            He saw her silent in the dimness lie,
                            And breathed, ‘Yes she is sleeping,’ then drew nigh.
                            And then I fled, and, that he should not fly,
                            I fenced the door. And then I watched the sky
                            That I might count how well the time went by,
                            And thought, ‘He surely will go mad or die.’
                        
                        
                        
                            “Two hours, then near an hour, passed onward slow,
                            The high east clouds were losing their last glow,
                            So late it grew, when I returned to know
                            If any evil came upon my foe.
                            I only heard a gasping thick and low,
                            I raised my torch his darkening face to show;
                            He lay, plague?smitten, in the passing throe.
                            I mocked him, watching, ‘Is the jest but so?’
                        
                        
                            “He lay beside her, and I could not bear,
                            Through my great hatred, that he should rest there:
                            Ere yet the life had passed I sought to tear
                            His arms from her. But suddenly from where
                            The sun was sleeping, rose an awful glare
                            That reddened on us. When it ceased to flare
                            Its fiery anger I had lost all care
                            Of love or hatred, and I left the pair.
                        
                        
                            “But, when I was made strong with food and wine,
                            I called to mind that need was to consign
                            
                            The darkening mass to fitter couch than mine,
                            And could not chose but his close grasp untwine,
                            That I might drag each where the mountain’s spine
                            Broke sudden lakewards in one high?ridged line.
                            I hurled them downwards. From the steep incline
                            I watched the startled ripples whirl and dwine.
                        
                        
                            “And I was calmer than the lake; no throe
                            Had stirred in me, no eddying of woe;
                            And when once more it lay unmoved below
                            I went in peace my tired limbs to bestow
                            On my freed couch, alone but pangless so,
                            And slept such quiet sleep as children know.
                            But I awakened in this waste of snow
                            Where evermore gnawed by quick cold I go.’
                        
                        
                            He ceased, and looked long with alternate gaze
                            On the dead faces that were fixed on him,
                            As seeking in some change in them to read
                            His change, if any change might grow to him.
                            But they and he looked still one rigid void.
                            And nothing stirred along the boundless snows,
                            
                            And nothing broke the wide unbreathing calm.
                            He rose, and moved with slow and even pace:
                            And those strange dead were borne along with him,
                            As though they were himself. So they passed on
                            And far away along the dreadful waste
                            I heard the droning murmur of his words
                            But knew not what they bore. And when they died
                            In distance all things slept in one great hush,
                            The plain of snow and the unchanging sky.
                        
                    
                    
                    
                        WITH THE DEAD
                        
                            
                                
                                    “Has any one ever been lost here?” asked Kenyon of the
                                        guide.
                                    “Surely, signor: one, no longer ago than my father’s time,”
                                        said the guide; and he added, with the air of a man who
                                        believed what he was telling, “but the first that went
                                        astray here was a pagan of old Rome, who hid himself in
                                        order to spy out and betray the blessed saints, who then
                                        dwelt and worshipped in these dismal places. You have heard
                                        the story, signor? A miracle was wrought upon the accursed
                                        one; and, ever since (for fifteen centuries at least), he
                                        has been groping in the darkness, seeking his way out of the
                                        catacomb.”
                                
                                HAWTHORN’S Transformation, Vol. I. ch. 3.
                            
                        
                        THE hour has come, my hour of yearly rest
                        From the long madness while I grope my way
                        With eager hands through these black clueless vaults,
                        
                        For ever tracking my unceasing steps
                        To the same sharp angles and the same low niches,
                        From day to night not knowing day from night,
                        Through day and night, not knowing any rest,
                        Not knowing any thought save that slow horror,
                        That breathless agony of hope more keen
                        With hopeless pangs than utter hopelessness,
                        Not knowing that I am, not knowing aught
                        Save that I wander, chill with creeping dread,
                        Seeking in vain through darkness big with death
                        An egress into life, while my worn limbs
                        Shiver with terror and my palsied lips
                        Tremble too much to call upon the gods.
                        And now I rest! A dreadful rest, accursed,
                        Made weary with despair and furious
                        With the old hate and the old bitter love:
                        Because I must, despite myself, remember.
                        Oh me! this added curse of memory
                        That burns like hissing iron through my soul,
                        This deadliest undying memory!
                        And I undying! Heavens; is there no taunt
                        No curse so loathsome to this angered Power
                        Who holds me here, that I might hurl it at him
                        
                        And rouse such flame of wrath as must perforce
                        Smite me to ashes with its shrivelling breath?
                        Oh! but to cease to be! to cease to know!
                        My throat is choked; I writhe in agonies,
                        Fierce agonies of thought; my life and soul
                        Are all one pain—Oh! but to cease to know!
                        I rave in vain. For who should hear me here,
                        One live among the dead, who shriek for aid
                        Out from this darkness where the gods look not?
                        To cease to know? yea, I shall cease to know
                        In a little while. The blood chills at my heart,
                        And I grow faint and shudder at the foretaste—
                        In a little while! and the horrible cold dread
                        Will have fallen on me; I shall be again
                        Groping my endless way among the tombs.
                        In a little while! Oh! back ye eager hours,
                        Why will ye press so to defraud my rest?—
                        My rest! my rest! Oh! rest that is all pain!
                        The hours are slow enough for so much pain.
                        For till the glow of this mysterious light
                        Glimmering unearthly o’er the worn gray slab—
                        Woe! woe! its lettering burns into my brain,
                        I see it though I turn away my eyes,
                        
                        “LUCILLA A SWEET SOUL ASLEEP IN CHRIST.
                        AND GLAUCON LOVING HER, MORE LOVING CHRIST”—
                        Till that pale ghastly glow, like the void rays
                        That look back to the sun from dead men’s eyes,
                        Fades sudden in the darkness whence it came,
                        And the fear?anguish once more drives me on,
                        I, waiting here, perforce must have in mind
                        That which these Christian fools would call my sin.
                        My sin? my glory. Do ye sleep, ye gods,
                        The guardians and the worshipped of great Rome,
                        That ye will yield me to the vengeful might
                        Of this new demon whom these heaven?accursed
                        Would set above you mocking at your thrones,
                        This new?found god whose anger I have earned
                        Because I warred against him, having care
                        To keep the honours of your temples pure?
                        Are ye asleep, great gods, or are ye wroth
                        That in my love for her I would have saved
                        One who had dared to mock you with her scorn?
                        I would have saved, Lucilla. But thy
                            fear
                        Of thy new god was stronger than thy fear
                        Of even death. Thyself didst choose to die,
                        It was not I who sent thee with the herd
                        
                        I hounded from their earths to glut the mart
                        Of creatures for our shows. It was not I.
                        Oh Child, thou knowest I would have had thee live
                        To love me—Oh! the tender maiden limbs
                        Wrenched on the rack! torn by the torturer!—
                        Oh gods! that death!—The panther’s dripping jaws!
                        Their white teeth clotted with—
                        But I did love thee.
                        Oh best and fairest! Oh! my love, my light,
                        When saw I love or light except in thee?
                        What music was there but when thou didst speak?
                        What beauty was there save what was in thee?
                        What joy or hope was there in all the earth
                        That was not thou? What more could the gods give?
                        And yet, not giving thee, what had they given?
                        I would have laid my whole life in thy hand,
                        And found no aim, no will, but to work thine;
                        I would have died for thee; I would have sinned
                        Against all laws of heaven or earth, but so
                        To bring thee one small pleasure; would have met
                        All agony, yea even this doom, for thee;
                        All things have done for thee, all things endured
                        Save but to yield thee, thou who west my all.
                        
                        And only this thou wouldst! yes, I dare front
                        Thy pale face rising on me through my dream,
                        With its accusing eyes, and answer thee:
                        Thou madest me suffer more than I did thee.
                        “LUCILLA A SWEET SOUL ASLEEP IN CHRIST.”
                        What is this Christ, that he can give thee sleep
                        Which is not death? Sleep! shall I call on him
                        That he may give me sleep? Sleep!—but he
                            sleeps,
                        “GLAUCON MUCH LOVING HER, MORE LOVING CHRIST.”
                        And shall I sleep with him, I wake with him,
                        The hated, hated that she did not hate?
                        Shall I ask mercy from this cross?hung god
                        Whom Glaucon loved? Gods of our city, no!
                        Asleep, Lucilla? once I saw thee sleep,
                        The smile of a pure dream upon thy lips,
                        Thy light breath heaving thy fair breast as winds
                        In a mild moonlight surge a sleeping sea,
                        And but to look on thee was to be calm,
                        And, for a moment, happy. Now what means
                        The foolish word asleep? That thou art there
                        In the clammy earth, a nothing, thou that wast
                        My all. Would I could feel thee what thou art,
                        
                        And know thee only as the dead are known
                        Or else forgotten. But my memory throbs
                        With such a living sentience that to think
                        On the once themes is to be my once self.
                        And I am driven to think of them. And they,
                        They are thou, Lucilla, thou art made my curse.
                        I must re?live it all—the sudden love,
                        The months of longing, and the fever waking
                        When, through my dreams, I knew my one life?hope,
                        Thy love, was stolen by that boy?beauteous Greek
                        Whose false voice whispered music in thine ears
                        That lured thee from the hymnings of our gods.
                        Through all my soul there stirs the bitter past,
                        Through all my soul there stirs the happy past
                        More bitter than the bitter by the touch
                        Of that great bitterness that curdles all
                        Its sweetness into gall. I see thy face
                        Set in the glimmer of that lustrous hair
                        Rippling all over into dappled waves,
                        Some like the autumn brambles browning leaf,
                        And some all shimmering as with burnished gold;
                        I see thy child?like eyes, blue as the sky,
                        Dark as the purple thundercloud, their whites
                        
                        All latticed o’er with little azure veins;
                        I see the soft pink pallor of thy cheek,
                        Thy sweet slow smile—Lucilla! Oh! forgive.
                        Oh! fade strange light, and let my mind again
                        Lose this sharp knowledge of the sad foregone.
                        Ah me! I must remember. So my love
                        Grew a great madness; till thy startled glance
                        Would shrink from mine in fear and thy dear hand
                        Would tremble as I touched it—not with love.
                        No, that was all for him—Oh! hate thou him,
                        If thou canst hate, Lucilla, for thy death;
                        Call it his deed not mine. Yea, but for him
                        It had not been. Yea, but for him, thy love,
                        My curse upon him! I had not been thus:
                        And, who can tell? I might have slept with thee,
                        My soul with thine in Christ, or, with me, thou
                        Have wandered godlike in the happy fields.
                        So my strong hate of him through love for thee
                        Grew ever, flaming through my veins like fire,
                        Till all my life was but as one black hate,
                        Till even love for thee seemed like a hate,
                        Thyself half hateful that thou couldst love him.
                        My heart burned in me like a poisoned wound
                        
                        At speech of him, at inward thought of him.—
                        And how could I once cease to think of him?
                        Thy name upon my lips was as a curse,
                        A thousand deepest curses, hurled on him;
                        My burning lids at night were scorched with sight,
                        I saw thy smile on him. And in my ears
                        Was ever sound of thy low voice that spoke
                        That sweet sweet word of love I heard it speak,
                        Once while I listened to thine every breath,
                        And not to me. My fitful fevered sleep
                        Was mad with dreams of passion and despair,
                        Yea mad, far worse than all, with dreams of hope
                        That made the waking sudden misery;
                        And in the days I writhed, my aching brain
                        Grew dizzy with its torment. Oh! those days!
                        That waking to an utter hopelessness,
                        That dreary sickening loneness at the heart;
                        And yet to love her, have no wish save her!
                        And he had brought me this. Was not love hate?
                        Could I love thee and not hate him, thy love?
                        They say that love can tame the roughest tongue
                        To soft?voiced sadness, gentle cadences;
                        Oh! false; there is such power alone in hate.
                        
                        Hate gave it me, and I could blend my voice
                        To well?put words of doubt and half belief
                        And trembling hope to find in that sweet creed
                        A happy haven for my broken soul.
                        And thou didst trust me, Oh! thou guileless; yea
                        Thou leddst thy convert to the secret vaults
                        Where prayers were made to the forbidden god.
                        And the fond idiots prated brotherhood,
                        And Glaucon, I was Glaucon’s brother too!
                        And so the poor fools let me come and go
                        Holding their lives in my hand.
                        They perished: well,
                        What scathe? Rome is well rid of such a scum—
                        Why did they mock our gods, and flout our lives
                        With their fine preachments? But she perished too,
                        Lucilla! But I meant it not. I dreamed,
                        Knowing thy tender spirit that would shrink
                        From even thought of pain to aught that feels,
                        Knowing thy timid spirit that would quail
                        At the light terrors its own dread had shaped
                        In the long shadows of a darkling eve,
                        I dreamed that thou wouldst cleave unto the grace
                        My care had made thy right, and buy thy life
                        
                        At price of one small homage to the gods.
                        Alas! I thought, and gloried in my heart,
                        Thou wouldst have rested in my shielding arms
                        Thy weakness and thy fears, too true to doubt
                        My truth to the vain faith I swore thy god
                        And thee, who hadst forgotten thou to me
                        Wast more than truth could give. I thought that death
                        Should part thee from that Glaucon through all time,
                        And lo! it weds thee to him through all time;
                        Thou art with him in death, and I, alone
                        Look on thy tomb and am thy murderer.
                        And yet it had not been if even then,
                        When thy clear voice scorned at the rites of Jove,
                        I had been by thee. But my awful doom
                        Held me a madman in the place of tombs.
                        * * * * * * *
                        The sunshine burst out through a ridge of gloom
                        And flashed a promise on me where I watched
                        The answer of the gods; without a bleat
                        The victim fell; the haruspex laughed content
                        Reading the entrails “See the gods approve.
                        Go, prosper in thy deed.” Prosper! I went
                        
                        Heading my band along the darksome vaults,
                        They fearless, but I feared not knowing why.
                        And then in the long cavern’s outer gloom
                        Fronting the dusk arch of the chamber vault
                        Where their trapped prey were sure, I stayed their haste,
                        Saying, “It fits that I should go before
                        Alone; because these Christians must not know
                        Who led you to their den; but pass ye on
                        In a short half hour where I shall enter now:
                        For I will seem to pray before their cross.”
                        Thee I could see, Lucilla, by the cross,
                        But swiftly came an awful flame of light—
                        Then darkness. And I rushed with a great dread
                        Through the dark maze that gave me no return,
                        Seized by my everlasting doom.
                        How then,
                        How comes it that I know that which I know?
                        Was my freed spirit borne among the clouds,
                        By some strange power, away from my void frame,
                        Or did I see it as a god might see,
                        Being far off but having mystic sight?
                        Woe! woe! I look upon the place of shows
                        
                        Red with dark pools, ghastly with mangled limbs
                        And shapeless dead. I hear the buzz of tongues,
                        The murmur of a huddled multitude
                        Mocking the death?pangs, mocking the death?prayers
                        Of bleeding forms that call upon their Christ.
                        I hear the eager cry that urges on
                        The crouching lions glutted with their prey,
                        Gazing with sullen eyes upon the crowd—
                        “Loose more, loose more”—the call rings in my ears—
                        “Loose more; these make no sport. There are victims yet.”
                        I see her a fair maiden robed in white,
                        Standing calm?eyed amid the place of blood,
                        Standing amid the corpses, not afraid,
                        Her hand firmed clasped in his all hateful hand—
                        Lucilla! His Lucilla?never mine.
                        I hear the echo of her quiet voice,
                        Oh shuddering hear, “I will not serve nor pray
                        These dream?born gods, but I will rather die.
                        My Lord will take me to his rest of love.”
                        I hear the hum of anger through the throng,
                        I hear low whisperings of pity grow,
                        
                        And voices call on Glaucon to stand forth
                        And save his dainty damsel and himself,
                        Bending with her one moment to great Jove;
                        And his strong words peal like a trumpet?blast
                        “Yes, I love her; but more do I love Christ.”
                        And then—I will not see—Oh! save her! save her!
                        Drag them off her. Am I powerless to reach her
                        And yet behold?
                        And I must gaze on this—
                        Out of some dream? A dream that will return
                        For ever and for ever!
                        Oh! the curse
                        Is my own earning. Rightly am I doomed.
                        Her blood, his blood, the blood of many dead
                        Is on my soul.
                        But did she pray for me?
                        Could even her gentleness so well forgive?
                        It was as if, in a deep pulseless hush
                        Stiller than sleep, I heard within my heart
                        While dying she prayed softly to her god
                        “Oh Lord, forgive him, lead his soul to thee,”
                        And knew she prayed for me, and loved her prayer,
                        While for a moment quivered at my heart
                        
                        A yearning for that rest of love in Christ,
                        And a quick impulse stirred me to fall down
                        And call upon her god as she had called.
                        But he replied, that Glaucon, “Lord, forgive.”
                        And I cried fiercely, clamouring out my wrath,
                        “Thou Christ, if thou hast any power to hear,
                        “Hear me, not him—hurl all thy wrath on me,
                        “I will not be forgiven at his prayer.
                        “If thou canst hear, hear me.”
                        Then I awoke,
                        And knew myself as one without a soul
                        Urged by the furies through these endless vaults.
                        But this long hour of thought? Why came it first?
                        After what length of days? I cannot judge,
                        Having in that long fear no breathing time,
                        Going on and on and on, through ceaseless turns,
                        In the dead murk and in the ghastly glimmer
                        Of the far daylight straggling through the shafts,
                        Going on and on and on towards escape
                        That never may be reached, my mind a blank
                        To all save terror and that one vain hope.
                        It came. I found me as I find me now
                        
                        Within the place of prayer where that swift flame
                        Seared me for ever from the lot of men,
                        And an unnatural radiance, even as now,
                        Came from the darkness, falling on that tomb—
                        LUCILLA A SWEET SOUL ASLEEP IN CHRIST,
                        AND GLAUCON LOVING HER, MORE LOVING CHRIST.
                        And gazing, there seemed borne upon my mind—
                        Or did she whisper it from that still tomb?—
                        That there should be to me each year a space
                        Of rest and memory enforced beside
                        Her resting place, that so I might call back
                        My prayer and “wash away” (the words seem so)
                        “My sin in weeping and a Saviour’s blood,
                        “And fall asleep in Christ.”
                        Yea, I would sleep,
                        Oh! sleep! if I could sleep—yea, sleep in
                            Christ
                        Whom my gods loathe—yea sleep with her in Christ.
                        But Glaucon whom I hate—Oh! never rest
                        Be mine with him, be mine through Glaucon’s god.
                        Hear me, not him, thou Christ.
                        The radiance pales—
                        Is dead. Oh gods! my madness drives me on.
                        Darkness, all dark—I know not what I say.
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                        BY THE LOOKING?GLASS.
                        
                            ALONE at last in my room—
                            How sick I grow of the glitter and din,
                            Of the lips that smile and the voices that prate
                            To a ballroom tune for the fashion’s sake:
                            Light and laughters without, but what within?
                            Are these like me? Do the pleasure and state
                            Weary them under the seeming they make?—
                            But I see all through my gloom.
                        
                        
                            For why should a light young heart
                            Not leap to a merry moving air,
                            Not laugh with the joy of the flying hour
                            And feed upon pleasure just for a while?
                            
                            But the right of a woman is being fair,
                            And her heart must starve if she miss that dower,
                            For how should she purchase the look and the smile?
                            And I have not had my part.
                        
                        
                            A girl, and so plain a face!
                            Once more, as I learn by heart every line
                            In the pitiless mirror, night by night,
                            Let me try to think it is not my own.
                            Come, stranger with features something like mine,
                            Let me place close by you the tell?tale light;
                            Can I find in you now some charm unknown,
                            Only one softening grace?
                        
                        
                            Alas! it is I, I, I,
                            Ungainly, common. The other night
                            I heard one say “Why, she is not so plain.
                            See, the mouth is shapely, the nose not ill.”
                            If I could but believe his judgement right!
                            But I try to dupe my eyesight in vain,
                            For I, who have partly a painter’s skill,
                            I cannot put knowledge by.
                        
                        
                        
                            He had not fed, as I feed
                            On beauty, till beauty itself must seem
                            Me, my own, a part and essence of me,
                            My right and my being—Why! how am I plain?
                            I feel as if this were almost a dream
                            From which I should waken, as it might be,
                            And open my eyes on beauty again
                            And know it myself indeed.
                        
                        
                            Oh idle! oh folly! look,
                            There, looking back from the glass, is my fate,
                            A clumsy creature smelling of earth,
                            What fancy could lend her the angel’s wings?
                            She looks like a boorish peasant’s fit mate.
                            Why! what a mock at the pride of birth,
                            Fashioned by nature for menial things,
                            With her name in the red?bound book.
                        
                        
                            Oh! to forget me a while,
                            Feeling myself but as one in the throng,
                            Losing myself in the joy of my youth!
                            Then surely some pleasure might lie in my reach.
                            
                            But the sense of myself is ever strong,
                            And I read in all eyes the bitter truth,
                            And fancy scorning in every speech
                            And mocking in every smile.
                        
                        
                            Ah! yes, it was so to?night,
                            And I moved so heavily through the dance,
                            And answered uncouthly like one ill taught,
                            And knew that ungentleness seemed on my brow,
                            While it was but pain at each meeting glance,
                            For I knew that all who looked at me thought
                            “How ugly she is! one sees it more now
                            With the other young faces so bright.”
                        
                        
                            I might be more like the rest,
                            Like those that laugh with a girlish grace
                            And make bright nothings an eloquence;
                            I might seem gentler and softer souled;
                            But I needs must shape myself to my place,
                            Softness in me would seem clumsy pretence,
                            Would they not deem my laughters bold?
                            I hide in myself as is best.
                        
                        
                        
                            Do I grow bitter sometimes?
                            They say it, ah me! and I fear it is true,
                            And I shrink from that curse of bitterness,
                            And I pray on my knees that it may not come;
                            But how should I envy—they say that I do—
                            All the love which others’ young lives may bless?
                            Because my age will be lone in its home
                            Do I weep at the wedding chimes?
                        
                        
                            Ah no, for they judge me ill,
                            Judging me doubtless by that which I look,
                            Do I not joy for another’s delight?
                            Do I not grieve for another’s regret?
                            And I have been true where others forsook
                            And kind where others bore hatred and spite,
                            For there I could think myself welcome—and yet
                            My care is unpitied still.
                        
                        
                            Yes, who can think it such pain
                            Not to be fair “Such a trifling thing.”
                            And “Goodness may be where beauty is not”
                            And “How weak to sorrow for outward show!”
                            
                            Ah! if they knew what a poisonful sting
                            Has this sense of shame, how a woman’s lot
                            Is darkened throughout!—Oh yes I know
                            How weak—but I know in vain,
                        
                        
                            I hoped in vain, for I thought,
                            When first I grew to a woman’s days,
                            Woman enough to feel what it means
                            To be a woman and not be fair,
                            That I need not sigh for the voice of praise
                            And the beauty’s triumph in courtly scenes
                            Where she queens with her maiden—royal air
                            Ah! and so worshipped and sought.
                        
                        
                            But I, oh my dreaming! deemed
                            With a woman’s yearning and faith in love,
                            With a woman’s faith in her lovingness,
                            That that joy might brighten on me, even me,
                            For which all the force of my nature strove,
                            Joy of daily smiles and voices that bless,
                            And one deeper other love it might be—
                            Hush, that was wrong to have dreamed.
                        
                        
                        
                            I thank God, I have not loved,
                            Loved as one says it whose life has gone out
                            Into another’s for evermore,
                            Loved as I know what love might be
                            Writhing but living through poison of doubt,
                            Drinking the gall of the sweetness before,
                            Drinking strange deep strength from the bitter lee—
                            Love, love in a falsehood proved!
                        
                        
                            Loving him on to the end,
                            Through the weary weeping hours of the night,
                            Through the wearier laughing hours of the day;
                            Knowing him less than the love I gave,
                            But this one fond dream left my life for its light
                            To do him some service and pass away;
                            Not daring, for sin, to think of the grave
                            Lest it seemed the only friend.
                        
                        
                            Thank God that it was not so,
                            And I have my scatheless maidenly pride,
                            But it might have been—for did he not speak
                            With that slow sweet cadence that seemed made deep
                            
                            By a meaning—Hush! he has chosen his bride.
                            Oh! happy smile on her lips and her cheek,
                            My darling! And I have no cause to weep,
                            I have not bowed me so low.
                        
                        
                            But would he have wooed in vain?
                            Would not my heart have leaped to his will,
                            If he had not changed?—How, changed do I
                                say?
                            Was I not mocked with an idle thought,
                            Dreaming and dreaming so foolishly still?
                            By the sweet glad smile and the winning way
                            And the grace of beauty alone is love bought.
                            He woo me! Am I not plain?
                        
                        
                            But yet I was not alone
                            To fancy I might be something to him.
                            They thought it, I know, though it seems so wild
                            Now, in this bitterer Now’s hard light.
                            Vain that I was! could his sight grow dim?
                            How could he love me? But she, when she smiled
                            Once, the first once, by her beauty’s right
                            Had made all his soul her own.
                        
                        
                        
                            It is well that no busy tongue
                            Has vexed her heart with those bygone tales.
                            But I think he fears he did me some wrong,
                            I see him watch me at times, and his cheek
                            Crimsons a little, a little pales,
                            If his eye meets mine for a moment long.
                            But he need not fear, I am not so weak
                            Though I am a woman and young.
                        
                        
                            I had not grown to my love,
                            Though it might have been. And I give no blame:
                            Nothing was spoken to bind him to me,
                            Nothing had been that could make him think
                            My heart beat stronger and fast when he came,
                            And if he had loved me, was he not free,
                            When the fancy passed, to loose that vague link
                            That only such fancy wove?
                        
                        
                            No he has done no such ill
                            But that I can bear it, nor shame in my heart
                            To call him my brother and see her his,
                            The one little pearl that gleams through our gloom:
                            
                            He has no dishonour to bar them apart.
                            I loving her so, am rested in this;
                            Else I would speak though I spoke her doom,
                            Though grief had the power to kill.
                        
                        
                            When she came a while ago,
                            My young fair sister bright with her bloom,
                            Back to a home which is little glad,
                            I thought “Here is one who should know no care,
                            A little wild bird flown into a room
                            From its far free woods; will she droop and grow sad?
                            But, here even, love smiles upon one so fair.
                            And I too might feel that glow.”
                        
                        
                            But now she will fly away!
                            Ah me! and I love her so deep in my heart
                            And worship her beauty as he might do.
                            If I could but have kept her a little time!
                            Ah she will go! So the sunbeams depart
                            That brightened the winter’s sky into blue,
                            And the dews of the chill dusk freeze into rime,
                            And cold cold mists hang grey.
                        
                        
                        
                            I think she loved me till now—
                            Nay doubtless she loves me quietly yet,
                            But his lightest fancy is more, far more,
                            To her than all the love that I live.
                            But I cannot blame (as if love were a debt)
                            That, though I love, he is held far before;
                            And is it not well that a bride should give
                            All, all her heart with her vow?
                        
                        
                            But ah, if I smiled more sweet
                            And spoke more soft as one fairer could,
                            Had not love indeed been more surely mine?
                            Folly to say that a woman’s grace
                            Is only strong o’er a man’s light mood!
                            Even the hearts of the nearest incline
                            With a gentler thought to the lovely face,
                            And the winning eyes that entreat.
                        
                        
                            But I—yes flicker pale light,
                            Fade into darkness and hide it away,
                            The poor dull face that looks out from the glass,
                            Oh wearily wearily back to me!
                            
                            Yes, I will sleep, for my wild thoughts stray
                            Weakly, selfishly—yes let them pass,
                            Let self and this sadness of self leave me free,
                            Lost in the peace of the night.
                        
                    
                
            
            
            
                
                    
                        TOO LATE.
                        WHATdead!—And I was only yesternight
                        Revolving eager schemes for my redemption
                        Out of these depths where I have plunged myself,
                        Thinking I saw her with her earnest eyes
                        Smile like the angels on the penitent.
                        And then, Oh God! just in my hopefulness,
                        Then did the arrow pierce me—“she may die.”
                        But could I think that such an agony
                        Could come upon me?—nay ’twas past belief.
                        How could she die?
                        Through the wild wintry night
                        The crashing train rushed onwards, and I groaned
                        Between my teeth “On! on! we scarcely move.”
                        
                        And the white snow?shapes, peering thro’ the gloom,
                        Took forms like ghosts that beckoned, beckoned on;
                        And the long shrieks and hissings and the clangings.
                        As we whirred on, were sobs and bitter wails
                        And hoarse strange voices crying “she may die!”
                        And then I moaned aloud “She cannot die!
                        I will not have her die!”
                        I find her dead!
                        Dead! oh my Amy dead!
                        Too late! too late!
                        I cannot kiss her pallid lips to life
                        For one last long farewell. Look the blue lids
                        Are sealed upon the eyes; they will not rise
                        For one last gaze to show she loved me still.
                        I did not close them. ’Twas not on my breast
                        Her dying head was rested in that anguish
                        The last life gave her—ah! it gave so many!
                        It gave? I gave! Oh but one
                            little breath,
                        One moment of forgiveness, and I might
                        Kneel down and pray beside her patiently,
                        Kneel down and rise a less unworthy man.
                        
                        Yes she is dead—but do you say I killed her?
                        Did you fold those thin hands upon her breast
                        That I might see how wasted they had grown?
                        Ah me! the ring sits loose on that shrunk finger.
                        If I might dare to take it from her now,
                        And wear it for a conscience, just to preach
                        The lessons my dulled conscience trips at!
                        No
                        I am not worthy. Let it go with her.
                        I will remember that in a lone grave
                        My wife is wearing still her wedding ring,
                        That I may know she is my own.
                        Ah! child,
                        Fresh from the meadows, lily?hearted child,
                        If only you had never been my own,
                        If I had left you in your lowliness,
                        I should have lost your glory on my life
                        But should have had this worst remorse the less,
                        And you would still be singing in your home.
                        Oh! what had I to do to drag you down
                        To my unworth, and fancy, braggart fool!
                        Because I shrieked my first in a tall room
                        Panelled with portraitures of better men
                        
                        Than I who shame their race, and your mazed eyes
                        Were opened on a dingy white?washed wall,
                        That I could raise you—I, who was more far
                        Beneath you than I’d sunk from my first self.
                        Oh dreamer that I was! I took from you,
                        My little one, your simple happiness
                        And thought I could replace it from a heart
                        That only dreamed the thing it should have been.
                        And now you lie there, ghastly white and cold,
                        And the gold locks I used to tease droop down
                        By a thin cheek and round a wasted throat,
                        And you are dead.
                        Oh! if you could but hear!
                        They of the strange new faith the Swedish saint
                        Dreamed in his trances say that for three days
                        Death is not where it seems, and the stiff corpse
                        Might hear and understand the living still.
                        Oh! if it could but be! if you could hear
                        And know I ask forgiveness thus, oh thus
                        Weeping. No you smile on a changeless smile
                        Of bliss ineffable; you would not smile
                        If you could see me weep, hear my wild sorrow.
                        
                        You lie there stony. I can never think
                        I gave you so much comfort at the last
                        As just to ask forgiveness. ’Tis too late;
                        You are gone from me. Oh! too late! too late!
                    
                
            
        
    
