
     ----CITATION----
        Ritchie, Anne Thackeray, 1837-1919. Chapters from some unwritten memoirs. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2010).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB7401
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        

            
            
                
                    Chapters from Some Unwritten Memoirs
                
                
                
                
                
                BY ANNE THACKERAY RITCHIE AUTHOR OF  "RECORDS OF TENNYSON, RUSKIN,
                    BROWNING" ETC.
                
                
                
                
                
                    NEW YORKHARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS
                    1895
                

            

            

            Copyright, 1894, by HARPER &
                    BROTHERS All rights reserved. 

            

            
                 TO  GEORGE AND ELIZABETH MURRAY SMITH These chapters out of the past (and
                    how many more that are not written here) are Affectionately Dedicated BY THE WRITER 

                
                    THE END HOUSE, WIMBLEDON September 13, 1894
                

            
            
            
            
                Le bonheur m'a préte plus d'un lien fragile Mais c'est
                        adversité qui m'a fait un ami
            

            

            


            

                
                    CONTENTS
                    
                        PAGE
                    I. MY POET . . . 1
                    II. MY MUSICIAN . . . 15
                    III. MY TRIUMPHAL ARCH . . . 29
                    IV. MY PROFESSOR OF HISTORY . . .43
                     V. MY WITCHES' CALDRON . . . 55
                    VI. IN KENSINGTON . . . 83
                    VII. TO WEIMAR AND BACK . . . 101
                    VIII. VIA WILLIS'S ROOMS TO CHELSEA . . . 119
                    IX. IN VILLEGGIATURA . . . 141
                    X. TOUT CHEMIN . . . 165
                    XI. MRS. KEMBLE . . . 185

                
            


            
        

        


            


            
                MY POET



                


                
                I
                MY father lived in good company, so that even as children we must have seen a good many poets and
                    remarkable people, though we were not always conscious of our privileges. Things certainly strike
                    children oddly, partially, and for such unexpected reasons. They are so busy in early life with all
                    that is going on on every side, that one person or another person, the visitor in the drawing-room,
                    the tortoise-shell cat on the garden wall, the cook's little boy who has come in to partake of cold
                    pudding, all seem very nearly as important one as the other. Perhaps I should not have been so much
                    impressed by my first conscious sight of a poet, if I had then realized all the notabilities who
                    came to our house from time to time. My special poet was a French-man. I first heard his name in
                    London, at a class which I attended in company with a good many other little girls my
                    contemporaries, which class, indeed, still continues, and succeeding generations receive the
                    decorations, the présidences and the sous présidences,, I fear I personally never attained to.
                My poet was a hair-dresser by profession, and a  barber as well. His
                    name was Jasmin (Jaquou Jansemin in the langue d'Oc ). He
                    was born in 1798 at Agen, in the south of France; "born," he writes, "of a humpback father
                        and a halting mother in the corner of an old street, in a crowded dwelling, peopled by many
                        rats, on Holy Thursday, at the hour when pancakes are tossed." The humpback father was also
                    a poet in his way, and composed songs for the itinerant players of the neighborhood. So soon as
                    Jasmin could walk he used to accompany his father to the booths, but what he liked better still was
                    gathering fagots in the little islands of the Garonne. "Bareheaded, barefooted,"  he writes,
                        "we rowed across the stream. I was not alone: there were twenty of us — there were thirty of
                        us. We started at the stroke of the mid-day hour, singing in choir." In the evening the
                    children returned as they had left—"thirty voices chaunting the same cadence, and thirty fagots
                        dancing on thirty heads." They were so poor that Jacques felt it bitterly because his
                    parents could not afford to send him to school. One day he was playing in the market-place when he
                    saw his grandfather carried by to the hospital. It was there the Jasmins were in the habit of dying.
                    But a cousin taught him to read; he became apprenticed to a barber; he rose to be a hair-dresser,
                    and. prospered in his vocation, so. that he was able to  save his
                    father from the usual fate of the Jasmins. The hair-dresser christened his first poems Les Papillotes, in honor of his profession; which songs, says
                    he, brought a silver streamlet through his shop, and upon this silver streamlet he floated to better
                    fortunes than were usual to the Jasmin family. One day, in a fit of poetic ardor, he broke the
                    terrible arm-chair in which they had all been in the habit of being carried to the hospital. Jasmin,
                    after he became celebrated, would never abandon his home or his little shop, but from time to time
                    he went for a journey; sometimes he would come to Paris, where he was kindly recognized by other
                    authors more fortunate in their worldly circumstances, and he would be made to repeat his own songs
                    by the great ladies who took him up. Chief among them was Lady Elgin, who lived in Paris then, and
                    who was a good friend to all literary aspirants. Longfellow was also among Jasmin's admirers, and
                    translated some of his works. Much of all this I have since read in the Biographie Nationale. As children at our French classes we had only learned
                    some of his lines by heart. I used to break down in utter confusion when my turn came to recite, but
                    at the same time I believe I took in a great deal more than I had any idea of, as I sat there
                    incompetent, wool-gathering. In that long, bare room, only ornamented by a few large maps and  with a flowing border of governesses, there came to one many of
                    those impressions which are not dates or facts, and which don't, alas! count for good marks, but
                    which nevertheless are very useful and agreeable possessions in after-days. We used to have
                    delightful French lessons in literature and poetry, and I still remember the dazzling visions of
                    troubadours evoked by our teacher—troubadours amid the golden landscapes of the south of France, as
                    described in the Mysteries of Udolpho the poems themselves as he quoted them almost
                    seemed to have wings and to come flying out of the well-thumbed Recueil! We had lessons in morality and in experience as well as in literature. I can
                    still hear M. Roche in his melodious voice quoting "de tout laurier un
                            poison est l'essence," and praising the philosophical aptness of the
                    illustration, which seemed to me so splendid that I was quite overpowered by it as I went home with
                    my governess along South Audley Street. There was another heart-rending poem about an angel standing
                    by a cradle and contemplating its own image in the face of an infant, "reflected as in a
                        stream." The angel finally carries away the poor baby, and the mother kneels weeping by the
                    empty cradle. It was a sort of Christmas-card of a poem well suited to the sentimental experience of
                    a little girl of twelve or thirteen years old, and I then and there 
                    determined that Reboul was my favorite author, after all. But there were many others besides Reboul.
                    Poor André Chenier we were all in love with, and Jasmin aforesaid held his own among the worthy
                    recipients of that golden flower of poesy which played such an important part in our early
                    education, and which was (so we learned) yearly bestowed by the inhabitants of Toulouse upon the
                    most successful competitors in the art. I used to picture the flower itself as a radiant, quivering
                    object covered with delicate, glittering workmanship. Perhaps nowadays I realize that golden flowers
                    of poesy are also bestowed in the south of England— in Waterloo Place, or Bedford Street, Covent
                    Garden, shall we say?—round golden tokens which are not without their own special graces.
                But to return to my memoirs. Our life was divided between London and Paris, where our grandparents
                    dwelt, and where we spent a part of every year, and all my recent studies and experiences rushed
                    into my mind one day soon after our return to France, when my grandmother told me that she had been
                    asked to a party at Lady Elgin's to meet a poet, that his name was Jasmin, and that she was going to
                    take me with her! My heart leaped with excitement; Jasmin—the South—golden flowers— présidences—a grown-up party—the portals of life seemed to fly
                    open with those of our 
                    porte-cockre as the carriage, containing my grandmother
                    and me in our Sunday best, drove off into the dark streets. We were escorted down-stairs by the
                    cook, with an extra lantern, I remember, and my grandfather in his little black silk toque waved
                    farewell over the staircase. We started expectant, rolling over the rattling stones; we crossed the
                    bridge and saw the dark river below us reflecting the lights—I remember no stars, but a damp and
                    drizzly darkness overhead, which, for some reason, added to my excitement. We reached the ancient
                        faubourg before very long, where the oil-lamps swung by chains
                    across the streets; we turned into the Rue de Varennes, where Lady
                    Elgin lived, and the coachman rapped at the great closed gates of the house, which opened with a
                    grinding sound, and we walked across the court-yard. The apartment was on the ground-floor of a
                    fine, melancholy old house.
                I followed my grandmother in her brown velvet gown and her diamond brooch into the reception-room. I
                    remember being surprised to find the gay world so dark on the whole, and talking in such a confused
                    and subdued murmur. I had expected chandeliers, bursts of laughter, people in masks and dominoes. I
                    had taken my ideas from bon-bon-boxes and crackers., But it was evidently all right—my grandmother
                    looked greatly pleased and  animated. I saw her speaking to one
                    person and to another in her dignified way; her manners were true grandmother's manners—kind, but
                    distant and serious. We considered our grandmother a very important personage, and I remember
                    feeling not a little proud of her beauty and dignity as we moved along. She was not one of your
                    "remains;" she was a very noble-looking old lady, holding her head high, and her diamond cap-pin
                    flashed as she moved across the room.
                My grandmother looked pleased and animated, as I have said, and when her friends came up to speak to
                    her she introduced me to some of them. Almost the very first person she greeted, but to whom she did
                    not introduce me, was a handsome, rather romantic, fashionable-looking gentleman, with a quantity of
                    dark hair, and a glass in one eye, leaning against the wall by the door as we entered. She said a
                    few words as we passed. I heard something about "Lady Charlotte," and then we walked on, and
                    presently we came upon another girl, younger than myself and very distinguished looking, in a plaid
                    frock, with beautiful shining braids of thick hair, who seemed quite at home and used to the house;
                    she was with her mother, a regal-looking little woman, with a fine profile and a gold crown; I can
                    still see her in a long green velvet robe slowly crossing the room; she was a well-known  person—Mrs. Chapman, the celebrated Abolitionist. The little girl was her
                    youngest daughter. While Mrs. Chapman and my grandmother were talking to one another, little Anne
                    Chapman, who seemed to know most of the people, began telling me who they all were. A great many
                    pages out of M. Roche's Recueil were present. There were
                    all sorts of notable folks murmuring to one another in the big rooms. "Who was the gentleman
                        in the doorway?"
                    "Oh, he is Mr. Locker," said little Anne; "he is married to Lady Charlotte —Lady
                        Elgin's daughter; didn't I know?—they had only come over from England the day before."
                    "And which is the poet?" said I, eagerly. "There he is, in the middle of the
                        room," said the little girl.  "Oh, where?" said I. "Oh, not that!" For suddenly, just under the swinging chandelier, I see a head,
                    like the figure-head of a ship—a jolly, red, shiny, weather-beaten face, with large, round,
                    prominent features, ornamented with little pomatumy wisps of hair, and a massive torso clothed in a
                    mag- nificent frilled shirt over a pink lining...."That the poet? not
                        that," I falter, gazing at Punchinello, high-shouldered, good-humored! "Yes, of
                        course it is that," said the little girl, laughing at my dismay; and the crowd seems to
                    form a circle, in the centre of which stands this droll being, who now begins to recite in a
                    monotonous voice.


                

                I can understand French well enough, but not one single word of what he is saying. It sounds
                    perfectly unintelligible, something like chi, ckou, cha, atchiou,
                        atchiou, atchiou! And so it goes on, and on, and on. The shirt frill beats time, the
                    monotonous voice rises and falls. It leaves off at last, the poet wipes the perspiration from his
                    brow; there is a moment's silence, then a murmur of admiration from the crowd which closes round
                    him. I see the Punchinello being led up to somebody to be thanked and congratulated; my heart goes
                    down, down; more murmurs, more exclamations. The little girl is gone, I am all alone with my
                    disappointment, and then my grandmother calls me to her side and says it is time to come away. As we
                    move towards the door again, we once more pass Mr. Locker, and he nods kindly, and tells me he knows
                    my father. "Well, and what do you think of Jasmin?" he asks; but I can't answer him, my illusions
                    are dashed. As we drive off through the streets the rain is still falling, the oil-lamps are
                    swinging; we cross the bridge once more, but how dull, how dark, how sad it all seems! My
                    grandmother, sitting upright in the dark carriage, says she has spent a very pleasant evening, and
                    that she is delighted with Jasmnin's simplicity and originality. I who had longed to see a poet! who
                    had pictured something so different! I swallowed down  as best I
                    could that gulp of salt-water which is so apt to choke us when we first take our plunge into the
                    experience of life. "He didn't look much like a poet, and I couldn't understand what he
                        said," I faltered.
                "Of course you could not understand the patois, but
                        have you not enjoyed your evening?" said my grandmother, disappointed. I had the grace to
                    try to speak cheerfully. "I liked the little girl very much, and—and—and I liked talking to
                        Mr. Locker, but then he isn't a poet," said I.
                I can't help laughing even now as I conjure up the absurd little dream of the past and the bitterness
                    of that childish disappointment. How little do we mortals recognize our good-fortune that comes to
                    us now and again in a certain humorous disguise. Why, I had been in a world of poets! A poet had
                    greeted me, a poet had sung to me, I had been hustled by poets; there in the crowd (for all I know
                    to the contrary) were Lamartine and Chateaubriand and Girardin and Mérimée—so, at least, some one
                    who was present on this occasion reminds me. And as for Frederick Locker, does not his caged
                    music—like that of the bird of Wood Street—echo along the arid pavements with sweetest and most
                    welcome note to charm the passers-by as the echoes of "London Lyrics" fall upon the listening ear?
                    And the red face was also that of a  true poet, born to sing his
                    sweet, unpretending song from a true heart, and to bring music into humble places. "A poet of the
                        people, writing in his dia- lect, celebrating public occasions and solemnities," says
                        Sainte-Beuve," which somehow remind one of the Middle Ages; belonging" (so he continues)
                        "to the school of Horace and to the school of Theocritus and to that of Gray, and to that of
                        all those charming studious inspirations which aim at perfection in all their work."


            
            



            

            
                MY MUSICIAN


                

                
                 II
                ONE'S early life is certainly a great deal more amusing to look back to than it used to be when it
                    was going on. For one thing it isn't nearly so long now as it was then, and remembered events come
                    cheerfully scurrying up one after another, while the intervening periods are no longer the
                    portentous cycles they once were. And another thing to consider is that the people walking in and
                    out of the by-gone mansions of life were not, to our newly-opened eyes, the interesting personages
                    many of them have since become; then they were men walking as trees before us,
                    without names or histories; now some of the very names mean for us the history of
                    our time. Very young people's eyes are certainly of more importance to them than their ears, and
                    they all see the persons they are destined to spend their lives with long before
                    the figures begin to talk and to explain themselves.
                My grandmother had a little society of her own at Paris, in the midst of which she seemed to reign
                    from dignity and kindness of heart; her friends, it must be confessed, have not as yet become
                    historic,  but she herself was well worthy of a record.
                    Grandmothers in books and memoirs are mostly alike —stately, old-fashioned, kindly, and critical.
                    Mine was no exception to the general rule. She had been one of the most beautiful women of her time;
                    she was very tall, with a queenly head and carriage; she always moved in a dignified way. She had an
                    odd taste in dress, I remember, and used to walk out in a red merino cloak trimmed with ermine,
                    which gave her the air of a retired empress wearing out her robes. She was a woman of strong
                    feeling, somewhat imperious, with a passionate love for little children, and with extraordinary
                    sympathy and enthusiasm for any one in trouble or in disgrace. How benevolently she used to look
                    round the room at her many protégés, with her beautiful
                    gray eyes! Her friends as a rule were shorter than she was and brisker, less serious and emotional.
                    They adopted her views upon politics, religion, and homœpathy, or at all events did not venture to
                    contradict them. But they certainly could not reach her heights, and her almost romantic passion of
                    feeling.
                A great many of my earliest recollections seem to consist of old ladies—armies of old ladies, so they
                    appear to me, as I look back through the larger end of my glasses to the time when my sister and I
                    were two little girls living at Paris. I remember once that after a long stay in England with  our father, the old ladies seemed changed somehow to our more
                    experienced eyes. They were the same, but with more variety; not all alike as they had seemed
                    before, not all the same age; some were younger, some were older than we had remembered them—one was
                    actually married! Our grandmother looked older to us this time when we came back to Paris; we were
                    used to seeing our father's gray hair, but that hers should turn white too seemed almost unnatural.
                    The very first day we walked out with her after our return, we met the bride of whose marriage we
                    had heard while we were away. She was a little dumpy, good-natured woman of about forty-five, I
                    suppose—shall I ever forget the thrill with which we watched her approach, hanging with careless
                    grace upon her husband's arm ? She wore light, tight kid gloves upon her little fat hands, and a
                    bonnet like a bride's cake. Marriage had not made her proud as it does some people; she recognized
                    us at once and introduced us to the gentleman. "Very 'appy to make your acquaintance,
                        miss," said he. "Mrs. C. 'ave often mentioned you at our place."
                Children begin by being Philistines. As we parted I said to my grandmother that I had always known
                    people dropped their h's, but that I didn't know one ever married them. My grandmother seemed trying
                    not to laugh, but she answered gravely that  Mr. and Mrs. C. looked
                    very happy, h's or no h's. And so they did, walking off along those illuminated Elysian fields gay
                    with the echoes of Paris in May, while the children capered to itinerant music, and flags were
                    flying and penny trumpets ringing, and strollers and spectators were lining the way, and the long
                    interminable procession of carriages in the centre of the road went rolling steadily towards the
                    Bois de Boulogne. As we walked homewards evening after evening the sun used to set splendidly in the
                    very centre of the great triumphal arch at the far end of the avenue, and flood everything in a
                    glorious tide of light. What indeed did an aspirate more or less matter at such a moment!
                I don't think we ever came home from one of our walks that we did not find our grandfather sitting
                    watching for our grandmother's return. We used to ask him if he didn't find it very dull doing
                    nothing in the twilight, but he used to tell us it was his thinking-time. My sister and I thought
                    thinking dreadfully dull, and only longed for candles and Chambers's Miscellany. A
                    good deal of thinking went on in our peaceful home; we should have liked more doing. One day was
                    just like another; my grandmother and my grandfather sat on either side of the hearth in their two
                    accustomed places; there was a French cook in a white  cap who
                    brought in the trays and the lamp at the appointed hour; there was Chambers on the
                    bookshelf, Pickwick, and one or two of my father's books, and The Listener, by
                    Caroline Fry, which used to be my last desperate resource when I had just finished all the others.
                    We lived in a sunny little flat on a fourth floor, with windows east and west and a wide horizon
                    from each, and the sound of the cries from the street below, and the confusing roll of the wheels
                    when the windows were open in summer. In winter time we dined at five by lamp-light at the round
                    table in my grandfather's study. After dinner we used to go into the pretty blue drawing-room where
                    the peat fire would be burning brightly in the open grate, and the evening paper would come in with
                    the tea. I can see it all still, hear it, smell the peat, and taste the odd herbaceous tea and the
                    French bread and butter. On the band of the Constitutional newspaper was printed "M.
                    le Major Michel Eschmid." It was not my grandfather's name or anything like it, but he would gravely
                    say that when English people lived in France they must expect to have their names gallicised, and
                    his paper certainly found him out evening after evening. While my grandmother with much emphasis
                    read the pews (she was a fervent republican, and so was my grandfather), my sister and I would sit
                    unconscious  of politics anrd happy over our story-books until the
                    fatal, inevitable moment when a ring was heard at the bell and evening callers were announced. Then
                    we reluctantly shut up our books, for we were told to get our needle-work when the company came in,
                    and we had to find chairs and hand teacups, and answer inquiries, and presently go to bed.
                The ladies would come in in their bonnets, with their news and their comments upon the public events,
                    which, by the way, seemed to go off like fireworks in those days expressly for our edification. Ours
                    was-a talkative, economical, and active little society—Cranford en
                        Voyage is the impression which remains to me of those early surroundings. If the
                    ladies were one and all cordially attached to my grandmother, to my grandfather they were still more
                    devoted. A Major is a Maor. He used to sign their pension papers, administer globules for their
                    colds, give point and support to their political opinions. I can see him still sitting in his
                    arm-chair by the fire with a little semi-circle round about the hearth. Ours was anything but a meek
                    and disappointed community. We may have had our reverses—and very important reverses they all seem
                    to have been—but we had all had spirit enough to leave our native shores and settle in Paris, not
                    without a certain implied disappoval  of the other people who went
                    on living in England regardless of expense. My father did not escape this criticism. Why, they used
                    to say, did he remain in that nasty smoky climate, so bad for health and spirits? Why didn't he
                    settle in Paris and write works upon the French? Why didn't I write and coax him to come, and tell
                    him that it was our grandmother's wish that he should do so; that the speaker, Mademoiselle Trotkins
                    (or whoever it might be), had told me to write? I remem- ber going through an early martyrdom at
                    these friendly hands, and bitterly and silently resenting their indignation with any one who could
                    prefer that black and sooty place London to Paris. At the same time they allowed that the loyers were becoming more exorbitant every day, and as for the
                        fruitiere at the corner, she was charging no less than
                    forty sous for her Isyngny. We always talked in a sort of
                    sandwich of French and English. Oddly enough, though we talked French, and some of us even looked
                    French, we knew no French people. From time to time at other houses I used to hear of real
                    foreigners, but I don't remember seeing any at ours, except a pasteur who sometimes came, and a certain Viscomte de B. (I had nearly written
                    Bragelonne), whose mother, I believe, was also English. Jeunes
                        filles, jeunes fleurs, he used to say, bowing to the young ladies. This  was our one only approach to an introduction to French society. But all
                    the same one cannot live abroad without imbibing something of the country, of the air and the earth
                    and the waters among which one is living. Breath and food and raiment are a part of one's life after
                    all, and a very considerable part; and all the wonderful tide of foreign sunshine and the cheerful
                    crowds and happy voices outside, and the very click of pots and pans in the little kitchen at the
                    back seemed to have a character of their own. And so, though we knew nothing of the French, we got
                    to know France and to feel at home there beneath its blue sky, and I think to this day a holiday
                    abroad is ten times more a holiday thana holiday at home. Froth mere habit, one seems to be sixteen
                    again, and one's spirits rise and one's exigencies abate. Besides the dwellers in the appartements and the regular customers of the extortionate
                        fruitiére, there used to be passing friends and
                    acquaintances who visited us on their way to other resorts—to Italy, to the German baths. Some
                    stopped in Paris for a week or two at a time, others for a few days only. I remember three Scotch
                    ladies, for whom my grandmother had a great regard, who were not part of our community, but who used
                    to pass through Paris, and always made a certain stay. ... I was very much afraid of them, though
                    interested at the same time  as girls are in unknown quantities.
                    They were well connected and had estates and grand relations in the distance, though they seemed to
                    live as simply as we did. One winter it was announced that they had taken an apartment for a few
                    weeks, and next morning I was sent with a note to one of them by my grandmother. They were tall,
                    thin ladies, two were widows, one was a spinster; of the three the unmarried one frightened me most.
                    On this occasion, after reading the note, one of the widow ladies said to the spinster, Miss X., who
                    had her bonnet on, "Why, you were just going to call on the child's grandmother, were you not?
                        Why don't you take her back with you in the carriage?" 
                    "I must first go and see how he is this morning," said Miss X., somewhat anxiously,
                        "and then I will take her home, of course. Are the things packed?" A servant came
                    in carrying a large basket with a variety of bottles and viands and napkins. I had not presence of
                    mind to run away as I longed to do, and somehow in a few minutes I found myself sitting in a little
                    open carriage with the Scotch lady, and the basket on the opposite seat. I thought her, if possible,
                    more terrible than ever—she seemed grave, preoccupied. She had a long nose, a thick brown
                    complexion, grayish sandy hair, and was dressed in scanty cloth skirts gray and sandy too. She spoke
                    to me, I believe, but  my heart was in my mouth; I hardly dared
                    even listen to what she said. We drove along the Champs Elysées towards the Arc and then turned into
                    a side street, and presently came to a house at the door of which the carriage stopped. The lady got
                    out, carefully carrying her heavy basket, and told me to follow, and we began to climb the shiny
                    stairs—one, two flights I think—then we rang at a bell and the door was almost instantly opened. It
                    was opened by a slight, delicate-looking man with long hair, bright eyes, and a thin, hooked nose.
                    When Miss X. saw him she hastily put down her basket upon the floor, caught both his hands in hers,
                    began to shake them gently, and to scold him in an affectionate reproving way for having come to the
                    door. He laughed, said he had guessed who it was, and motioned to her to enter, and I followed at
                    her sign with the basket—followed into a narrow little room, with no furniture in it whatever but an
                    upright piano against the wall and a few straw chairs standing on the wooden shiny floor. He made us
                    sit down with some courtesy, and in reply to her questions said he was pretty well. Had he slept? He
                    shook his head. Had he eaten? He shrugged his shoulders and then he pointed to the piano. He had
                    been composing something—I remember that he spoke in an abrupt, light sort of way—would Miss X. like
                    to  hear it? "She would like to hear it," she
                    answered, "of course, she would dearly like to hear it; but it would tire him to play; it
                        could not be good for him." He smiled again, shook back his long hair, and sat down
                    immediately; and then the music began and the room was filled with continuous sound, he looking over
                    his shoulder now and then to see if we were liking it. The lady sat absorbed and listening, and as I
                    looked at her I saw tears in her eyes—great clear tears rolling down her cheeks while the music
                    poured on and on. I can't, alas, recall that music! I would give anything to remember it now; but
                    the truth is, I was so interested in the people that I scarcely listened. When he stopped at last
                    and looked round, the lady started up. "You mustn't play any more," she said; "no
                        more, no more, it's too beautiful"—and she praised him and thanked him in a tender,
                    motherly, pitying sort of way, and then hurriedly said we must go; but as we took leave she added,
                    almost in a whisper with a humble apologizing look—"I have brought you some of that jelly, and
                        my sister sent some of the wine you fancied the other day; pray, pray try to take a
                        little." He again shook his head at her, seeming more vexed than grateful. "It is
                        very wrong; you shouldn't bring me these things," he said in French. "I won't play
                        to you if you do"—but she  put him back softly, and
                    hurriedly closed the door upon him and the offending basket, and hastened away. As we were coming
                    down-stairs she wiped her eyes again. By this time I had got to understand the plain, tall, grim,
                    warm-hearted woman; all my silly terrors were gone. She looked hard at me as we drove away.
                        "Never forget that you have heard Chopin play," she said with emotion, "for
                        soon no one will ever hear him play any more."
                
                Sometimes reading the memoirs of the great musician, the sad story of his early death, of his
                    passionate fidelity, and cruel estrangement from the companion he most loved, I have remembered this
                    little scene with comfort and pleasure, and known that he was not altogether alone in life, and that
                    he had good friends who cared for his genius and tended him to the last. Of their affection he was
                    aware. But of their constant secret material guardianship he was unconscious; the basket he
                    evidently hated, the woman he turned to with most grateful response and dependence. He was to the
                    very end absorbed in his music, in his art, in his love. He had bestowed without counting all that
                    he had to give: he poured it forth upon others, never reckoning the cost; and then dying away from
                    it all, he in turn took what came to him as a child might do, without pondering or speculating
                    overmuch.

            


            

            
                MY TRIUMPHAL ARCH

                

                
                III
                I BEGAN life at four or five years old as a fervent Napoleonist. The great emperor had not been dead
                    a quarter of a century when I was a little child. He was certainly alive in the hearts of the French
                    people and of the children growing up among them. Influenced by the cook, we adored his memory, and
                    the  had a clock with a laurel wreath which from some reason
                    kindled all our enthusiasm.
                As a baby holding my father's finger I had stared at the second funeral of Napoleon sweeping up the
                    great roadway of the Champs Elysées. The ground was white with
                    new-fallen snow, and I had never seen snow before; it seemed to me to be a part of the funeral, a
                    mighty pall indeed spread for the obsequies of so great a warrior. It was the snow I thought about,
                    though I looked with awe at the black and glittering carriages which came up like ships sailing past
                    us, noiselessly one by one. They frightened me, for I thought there was a dead emperor in each. This
                    weird procession gave a strange importance to the memory  of the
                    great emperor, and also to the little marble statuette of him on the nursery chimney-piece. It stood
                    with folded arms contemplating the decadence of France, black and silent and reproachful. France was
                    no longer an empire, only a kingdom just like any other country; this fact I and the cook bitterly
                    resented. Besides the statuette there was a snuff-box, belonging I know not to whom, that was a
                    treasure of emotional awe. It came out on Sundays, and sometimes of an evening just before bed-time.
                    At first as you looked you saw nothing but the cover of a wooden box ornamented by a drawing in
                    brown sepia, the sketch of a tombstone and a weeping willow-tree— nothing more. Then if you looked
                    again, indicated by ingenious twigs and lines there gradually dawned upon you the figure, the
                    shadowy figure of him who lay beneath the stone. Napoleon, pale and sad, with folded arms, with his
                    cocked hat crushed forward on his brow, the mournful shade of the conqueror who had sent a million
                    of other men to Hades before him.
                As we gazed we hated the English. It is true I was very glad they always conquered everybody, and
                    that my grandpapa was a major in their army; but at the same time the cook and I hated the
                    perfidious English, and we felt that if Napoleon had not been betrayed he would still have been
                    reigning over us here in Paris.


                

                Every day we children used to go with our bonne to play
                    round about the Arc de Triomphe near which we lived, and where,
                    alternating with ornamental rosettes, the long lists of Napoleon's battles and triumphs were carved
                    upon the stone. The bonne sat at work upon one of the
                    stone benches which surround the Arc, we made gravel pies on the step at her feet and searched for
                    shells in the sand, or, when we were not prevented by the guardian, swung on the iron chains which
                    divide the enclosure from the road. We paid no attention whatever to the inscriptions, in fact we
                    couldn't read very well in those days. We hardly ever looked at the groups of statuary, except that
                    there was one great arm carrying a shield, and a huge leg like the limb in the Castle of Otranto
                    which haunted us, and which we always saw, though we tried not to see it. I never
                    remember being very light-hearted or laughing at my play up by the Arc, a general sense of something
                    grim and great and strange and beyond my small ken impressed itself upon me as we played. When I had
                    night-mares at night the Arc de Triomphe, with its writhing figures, was always mixed up with them.
                    One day the guardian in his brass buttons, being in a good humor, allowed us all to climb up without
                    paying to the flat lead terrace on the top. There were easy steps inside the walls, and slits  for light at intervals; and when we climbed the last steep step
                    and came out upon the summit, we saw the great view, the domes and the pinnacles and gilt
                    weathercocks of the lovely city all spreading before us, and the winding river, and the people
                    looking like grains of sand blown by the wind, and the carriages crawling like insects, and the
                    palace of the Tuileries in its lovely old gardens shining like a toy. But somehow the world from a
                    monumental height is quite different from what it seems from a curb-stone, where much more human
                    impressions are to be found; and that disembodied Paris, spreading like a vision, never appeared to
                    me to be the same place as the noisy, cheerful, beloved city of my early childish recollections.
                The first house in which we lived at Paris was an old house in an old avenue enclosed by iron gates
                    which were shut at night. It was called the Avenue Sainte Marie and led from the Faubourg du Roule
                    to the Arc de Triomphe. The avenue was planted with shady trees; on one side there were houses, on
                    the other convent walls. At the door of one of the houses an old man sat in his chair, who used to
                    tell us, as we passed by, that in a few months he would be a hundred years old, and then they would
                    put him into the papers. I used to play in the court-yard belonging to the house in which  we lived. There was a pump and there was a wall with a row of poplar
                    trees beyond it. There was a faded fresco painted on the wall, a dim fountain, a pale Italian
                    garden, a washed-out bird flying away, with a blue tail, across long streaks of mildew that had come
                    from the drippings of the trees. Frescos must have been in fashion at the time when the Avenue
                    Sainte Marie was built,for there was also a dim painting on the convent wall opposite our porte-cochère, representing a temple in a garden, and clouds,
                    and another bird with outstretched wings. From beyond this wall we used to hear the bells and the
                    litanies of the nuns. One night I dreamed that I was walking in the convent garden and that my
                    father came out of the temple to fetch me home, and that the bird flapped its wings with a shrill
                    cry. I used to dream a great deal when I was a little child, and then wake up in my creaking wooden
                    bed and stare at the dim floating night-light like a little ship on its sea of oil. Then from the
                    dark corners of the room there used to come all sorts of strange things sailing up upon the
                    darkness. I could see them all, looking like painted pictures. There were flowers, birds, dolls,
                    toys, shining things of every description. I have since heard that this seeing pictures in the dark
                    is not an uncommon faculty among children. I had a vague feeling that the pictures came from the  house of the nuns. My sister being a baby, I had only the porter's
                    niece to play with. She was older than I was, and used to go to school at the convent. She used to
                    wear a black stuff pinafore and a blue ribbon with the image of the Virgin round her neck. As we
                    played we could hear other music than that of the nuns, the brilliant strains of Monsieur Ernest's
                    piano in the apartment over ours. He was a kind young man, very fond of children, who used to open
                    the window and play to us brilliant dances and marches, which we delighted in. When he ceased we
                    went back to our games.
                It was later in life that with the help, either of Justine or another relation of the family, I tried
                    to polish up the stairs as a surprise for the porter on his return from an errand. We got the long
                    brooms and sticks out of the lodge where there was nobody to be seen, only an odd smell and a great
                    pot simmering by the fire. One of us carried a feather broom, the other a brush with a strap to it,
                    and a great stick with a bit of wax at one end. Then we set to work, not forgetting the hissing
                    sound. Justine flapped about with the feather broom and duster; I tried to work my foot with the
                    heavy brush; but the brush flies off, down I come on my nose with a scream, the broom clatters
                    echoing down the stairs, the waxed stick falls over the 
                    bannisters, doors open, voices are heard, I have thumped my nose, bumped my forehead, but I do not
                    mind the pain—the disgrace, the failure, are what are so terrible to bear!
                I cannot clearly remember when I became an Orleanist, but I think I must have been about six years
                    old at the time, standing tiptoe on the aforesaid curb-stone. My grandmother had changed her cook
                    and her apartment, and I had happened to hear my grandfather say that Napoleon was a rascal who had
                        not been betrayed by the English. Then came a day—shall I ever forget it?—when
                    a yellow carriage jingled by with a beautiful little smiling boy at the window, a fair-haired,
                    blue-eyed prince. It was the little Comte de Paris, who would be a king some day, they told me, and
                    who was smiling and looking so charming that then and there I deserted my colors and went over to
                    the camp of the Orleans. Alas! that the lilies of France should have been smirched and soiled by
                    base and vulgar intrigues, and that my little prince should have stepped down unabashed, as a
                    gray-headed veteran, from the dignified shrine of his youth. I remember once hearing my father say
                    of the Duc d'Aumale, "He has everything in his favor—good looks, dignity, fine manners, intellect,
                    riches, and, above all, misfortune;" and with all of these I invested the image of my own particular
                    little prince.


                
                One micarême, on that mysterious pagan feast of the
                    butchers, when the fat ox, covered with garlands and with gilded horns, is led to sacrifice through
                    the streets of Paris, I also, to my great satisfaction, was brought forth to join the procession by
                    a couple of maids, one of whom carried a basket. I remember finding my stumpy self in a court of the
                    Tuileries, the fairy ox having been brought thither for the benefit of the king, and I was hustled
                    to the front of a crowd and stood between my two protectors looking up at a window. Then comes an
                    outcry of cheering, and a venerable, curly-headed old gentleman, Louis Philippe himself, just like
                    all his pictures, appears for an instant behind the glass, and then the people shout again and
                    again, and the window opens, and the king steps out on to the balcony handing out an old lady in a
                    bonnet and frizzed white curls, and, yes, the little boy is there too. Hurrah, hurrah! for all the
                    kings and queens! And somebody is squeezing me up against the basket, but I am now an Orleanist and
                    ready to suffer tortures for the kind old grandpapa and the little boy. Now that I am a gray-headed
                    woman I feel as if I could still stand in the crowd and cry hurrah for honest men who, with old
                    Louis Philippe, would rather give up their crowns than let their subjects be fired upon; and if my
                    little prince, instead of shabbily intriguing  with adventurers,
                    had kept to his grandfather's peaceful philosophy, I could have cried hurrah for him still with all
                    my heart.
                I suppose we have most of us, in and out of our pinafores, stood by triumphal archways put up for
                    other people, and moralized a little bit before proceeding to amuse ourselves with our own
                    adventures further on. As I have said, the Arc de Triomphe seems
                    mixed up with all my early life. I remember looking up at it on my way to my first school in an
                    adjoining street, crossing the open space, and instead of stopping to pick up shells as usual,
                    casting, I dare say, a complaisant glance of superiority at the gods of war in their stony chariots,
                    who, after all, never had much education. I was nicely dressed in a plaid frock, and wore two tails
                    of hair tied with ribbons, a black apron, and two little black pantalettes. It was the admired
                    costume of all the young ladies of the school to which I was bound. On this occasion the stony gods
                    witnessed my undue elation and subsequent discomfiture unmoved. The triumphal arch was certainly not
                    intended for my return. I was led home that evening, after a day mostly spent in the corner,
                    crestfallen and crushed by my inferiority to all the other young ladies of the school in their black
                    pinafores and pantalettes.


                
                But the images round about the Arc are not all of discomfitures and funerals and terrible things.
                    There were also merry-makings to be remembered. Did not the Siamese Twins themselves set up their
                    booths in its shadow in company with various wild Bedouins their companions? I thought it cruel of
                    the nurse not to take me in to see the show, and indeed on one occasion I ran away from home to
                    visit it on my own account. The expedition was not a success, but Siam has always seemed to me an
                    interesting country ever since. Besides the twins and their booth, there were cafds and
                    resting-places in those days all round about the Arc, and people enjoying themselves after their
                    long day's work with song and laughter. Wild flowers were still growing at the upper end of the
                        Champs Elysées on a green mound called the Pélouse.
                In the year '48, when we walked out with our grandparents, the Pélouse had been dug up and levelled, I think, to give work to the starving people.
                    It was a year of catastrophes and revolutions—a sort of "General Post" among kings and governments.
                    Many of the promenaders (my grandparents among then) used to wear little tricolor rosettes to show
                    their sympathies with the Republic. Shall I ever forget the sight of the enthusiastic crowds lining
                    the way to see the President entering Paris in a cocked hat on a curveting Arabian steed  at the head of his troops? to be followed in a year or two by the still
                    more splendid apparition of Napoleon III. riding into Paris along the road the great Emperor's
                    hearse had taken—a new emperor, glittering and alive once more, on a horse so beautiful and majestic
                    that to look upon it was a martial education!
                The pomp and circumstance of war were awakened again, and troops came marching up the avenues as
                    before, and, what is even more vivid to my mind, a charming empress presently rose before us,
                    winning all hearts by her grace and her beautiful toilettes. My sister and I stood by the roadside
                    on her wedding-day and watched her carriage rolling past the Arc to St. Cloud; the morning had been
                    full of spring sunshine, but the afternoon was bleak and drear, and I remember how we shivered as we
                    stood. Some years later, when we were no longer little girls, but young ladies in crinolines, we
                    counted the guns fired for the birth of the Prince Imperial at the Tuileries.

            

            
            

            
                MY PROFESSOR OF HISTORY


                

                
                IV
                OUR father was away in America, and we were living once more with our grandparents. We were children
                    no longer, but were young ladies supposed to be finishing our education. It will be seen that it was
                    of a fitful and backward description. Macaulay's Essays, Ivanhoe and
                    the Talisman, Herodotus, Milman's History of the Jews,
                    and one or two stray scraps of poetry represented our studies. Then came a vast and hopeless chaos
                    in our minds, reaching as far back as the times of Charlemagne and Clovis, and Bertha with the long
                    foot, and Fredegonde who was always plunging her dagger into somebody's back. The early Merovingians
                    will for me ever be associated with a faint smell of snuff and a plaid linen pocket-handkerchief
                    carefully folded, with a little, old, short, stumpy figure, in a black cap and dressed in a scanty
                    black skirt. The figure is that of my Professor of History. An old, old lady, very short, very
                    dignified, uttering little grunts at intervals, and holding a pair of spectacles in one hand and a
                    little old black fat book in the other, from which, with many fumblings and snuff-takings  the good soul would proceed to read to us of murder, battle, rapine, and
                    sudden death, of kings, crowns, dynasties, and knights in armor, while we, her pupils, listened,
                    trying not to laugh when she turned two pages at once, or read the same page twice over with great
                    seriousness.
                My dear grandmother, who was always inventing ways of helping people, and who firmly believed in all
                    her protégés, having visited our Madame once or twice and
                    found her absorbed in the said history book, had arranged that a series of historical lectures, with
                    five-franc tickets of admission to the course, should be given by her during the winter months; and
                    that after the lecture (which used to take place in our sitting-room, and which was attended by a
                    certain number of ladies) we should all adjourn for tea to the blue drawing-room, where the Major
                    meanwhile had been able to enjoy his after-dinner nap in quiet. He refused to attend the course,
                    saying, after the first lecture, that he found it difficult to follow the drift of Madame's
                    arguments. There used to be a class of four girls—my sister and myself, our cousin Amy, and Laura
                    C., a friend of my own age—and then the various ladies, in bonnets; from up-stairs and down-stairs
                    and next door. The lecture lasted an hour by the clock; then the meeting suddenly adjourned, and by
                    the time the golden flower-vase pendule in the drawing-room  struck
                    ten everybody was already walking down the shiny staircase and starting for home. Paris streets at
                    night may be dark and muddy, or freezing cold, but they never give one that chill, vault-like
                    feeling which London streets are apt to produce when one turns out from a warm fireside into the raw
                    night. The ladies thought nothing of crossing the road and walking along a boulevard till they
                    reached their own doors. Good old Madame used to walk off with those of her pupils who lived her
                    way; they generally left her at the bright chemist's shop round the corner, where Madame Marlin, the
                    chemist's wife, would administer an evening dose of peppermint-water to keep out the cold—so we used
                    to be told by Madame. The old lady lived in one of the tall, shabby houses at the top of the
                    Faubourg, just behind the Arc. We used to find her sitting in a small crowded room, with a tiny
                    ante-room, and an alcove for her bed. There she lived with her poodle, Bibi, among the faded
                    treasures and ancient snuff-boxes and books and portraits and silhouettes of a lifetime; grim
                    effigies of a grim past somewhat softened by dust and time. In the midst of all the chaos one lovely
                    miniature used to hang, shining like a star through the clouds of present loneliness and the
                    spiders' webs of age and poverty. This was the portrait of the beautiful Lady Almeria Carpenter, the
                         friend of Sir Joshua, with whom in some mysterious, romantic
                    way Madame was connected. Another equally valued relic was a needlebook which had been used by the
                        Duchesse de Praslin on the day when her husband murdered her.
                    Madame's sister had been governess there for many years, and had loved the duchess dearly and been
                    valued by her, and many and mysterious were the confidences poured into my grandmother's ear
                    concerning this sad tragedy. Our cheery, emphatic, mysterious old lady was very popular among us
                    all. One of her kindest friends was my father's cousin, Miss R., who had lived in Paris all her
                    life, and whose visiting-list comprised any one in trouble or poor or lonely and afflicted. I think
                    if it had not been for her help and that of my grandmother our good old friend would have often gone
                    through sore trials. When my father himself came to Paris to fetch us away, he was interested in the
                    accounts he heard of the old lady from his mother and cousin. And Madame is the heroine of a little
                    story which I have seen in print somewhere, and which I know to be true, for was I not sent one day
                    to search for a certain pill-box in my father's room, of which he proceeded to empty the contents
                    into the fireplace, and then, drawing a neat banker's roll from his pocket, to fill up the little
                    cube with a certain number of new napoleons, packing them in closely up to the brim. After  which, the cover being restored, he wrote the following
                    prescription in his beautiful, even handwriting "Madame P. . ... To be taken
                            occasionally when required. Signed Dr. W. M. T." Which medicine my grandmother,
                    greatly pleased, promised to administer to her old friend after our departure.
                P.S. The remembrance of this pill-box, and of my father's kind hands packing up the napoleons, came
                    to me long after at a time when misfortunes of every kind had fallen upon the familiar friends and
                    places of our early youth, when the glare of burning Paris seemed to reach us far away in our
                    English homes, and we almost thought we could hear the thunders breaking on the unhappy city. We
                    thought of our poor old lady, alone with her dear Bibi, in the midst of all this terror and
                    destruction. As we sat down to our legs of mutton we pictured the horrible salmis and fricandeaux of rats and
                    mice to which our neighbors were reduced, the sufferings so heroically borne. Every memory of the
                    past rose up to incite us to make some effort to come to the assistance of our poor old friend; and
                    at last it occurred to me to ask Baroness Mayer de Rothschild, who was always ready with good help
                    for others, whether it would be possible to communicate with my besieged old lady.
                I do not know by what means—perhaps if I knew,  I ought not to say
                    how communications had been established between the English Rothschilds and those who were still in
                    Paris. Some trusty and devoted retainer, some Porthos belonging to the house, had been able to get
                    into Paris carrying letters and messages and food, and he was, so the Baroness now told me, about to
                    return again. By this means I was told that I might send my letters and a draft on the bank in Paris
                    so that poor Madame could obtain a little help of which she must be in cruel need; and this being
                    accomplished, the letter written and the money sent off, I was able with an easier mind to enjoy my
                    own share of the good things of life. Time passed, the siege was raised, and then came a day when,
                    urged by circumstances, and perhaps also by a certain curiosity, I found myself starting for Paris
                    with a friend, under the escort of Mr. Cook, arriving after a night's journey through strange and
                    never-to-be- forgotten experiences at the Gare du Nord—a deserted station among streets all empty
                    and silent. Carriages were no longer to be seen, every figure was dressed in black, and the women's
                    sad faces and long, floating crape veils seemed strangely symbolical and visionary, as I walked
                    along to the house of my father's cousin, Charlotte R., who had been my friend ever since I could
                    remember. She was expecting me in her home to which she had  only
                    been able to return a few days before. It is not my purpose here to describe the strange and
                    pathetic experiences and the sights we saw together during that most eventful week; the sunshine of
                    it all, the smoking ruins, the piteous histories, the strange rebound of life even in the midst of
                    its ashes. The Arc itself was wrapped in sack-cloth to preserve the impassive gods from the injuries
                    of war. The great legs and arms we packed in straw and saw-dust to protect them. One of my first
                    questions was for Madame. "She is particularly well," said my cousin, smiling.
                        "She has added many thrilling histories to répertoire, Madame Martin's escape from the obus, Bibi's horror of the— Prussians—you must come and see her, and hear it all
                        for yourself."
                    "I particularly want to see her," said I. I was in a self-satisfied and not unnatural
                    frame of mind, picturing my old lady's pleasure at the meeting, her eloquent emotion and
                    satisfaction at the trouble I had taken on her behalf. I hoped to have saved her life; at all events
                    I felt that she must owe many little comforts to my exertions, and that her grateful benediction
                    awaited me!
                Dear old Madame was sitting with her poodle on her knees in the same little dark and crowded chamber.
                    She put down her spectacles, shut up her book-I do believe it was still the little black  History of France. She did not look in the least surprised to see me walk
                    in. The room smelt of snuff just as usual; Bibi leaped up from her lap, barking furiously.
                        "Ah! my dear child," said the old lady calmly, "how do you do? Ah, my dear
                        Miss R., I am delighted to see you again ! Only this day I said to Madame Martin, 'I think
                            Miss R. will be sure to call this afternoon; it is some day since she come.'"
                    Then turning to me, "Well, my dear A., and how do you, and how do you all? Are you come to
                        stay in our poor Paris? Are Mr. and Mrs. T. with you? Oh! oh! Oh, those Prussians! those
                        abominable monsters! My poor Bibi, he was ready to tear them to pieces; he and I could not sleep
                        for the guns. Madame Martin, she say to me, 'Oh! Madame, can you believe such wickedness?'
                         I say to her, 'it is abominable.' Oh, there is no word for it!"
                All this was oddly familiar, and yet strangely thrilling and unreal as was all the rest. There is no
                    adequate expression for the strange waking nightmare which seems to seize one when by chance one
                    meets a whole country suffering from one over-powering idea, and when one hears the story of each
                    individual experience in turn repeated and repeated.
                At last, my own personal interests rising up again, I said, not without some curiosity: "And
                             now I want to ask you, did you get my letter, Madame, and
                        did you receive the money safely from Messrs. Rothschilds' bank?"
                "I thank you, my dear child. I received it—I was about to mention the subject—I knew you would
                        not forget your old friend," said Madame solemnly. "I needed the money very
                        much," with a shake of the head. "I was all the more grateful that it came at the
                        time it did. You will be gratified, I know, to learn the use to which I put it. They had come
                        round to every house in the street only that morning. Madame Martin was with me." Here
                    Madame took a pinch of snuff very seriously. "She go to the banker's for me, and she took the
                        money at once and inscribe my name on the list."
                "The list?" said I, much bewildered.
                "I subscribe it," said Madame, "to the cannon which was presented by our quartier to the city of Paris."
                "What, all of it?" said I.
                "Yes, all of it," said she. "Do you suppose I should have kept any of it
                        back?"

            
            
            

            

                MY WITCHES' CALDRON


                
                
                V
                IT happily does not always follow that one cares for an author in exact proportion to the sale of his
                    books, or even to the degree of their merit; otherwise some might be overpowered by friends, and
                    others remain solitary all their lives long. It also does not always follow that people who write
                    books are those who see most of one another. On the contrary, authors as a rule, I think, prefer
                    play-mates of other professions than their own, and don't keep together in the same way that
                    soldiers do for instance, or dandies, or lawyers, or members of Parliament. Lawyers, politicians,
                    soldiers, and even doctors, do a great deal of their work together in one another's company; but the
                    hours don't suit for literary people, and one rarely hears of five or six authors sitting down in a
                    row to write books. They are generally shut up apart in different studies, with strict orders given
                    that nobody is to be shown in.
                This was my father's rule, only it was constantly broken; and many persons used to pass in and out
                    during his working-times, coming to consult him, or to make suggestions; some came to call, others
                         brought little poems and articles for the
                        Cornhill... As I write on it seems to me that my memory is a sort of Witches'
                    Caldron, from which rise one by one these figures of the past, and they go by in turn and vanish one
                    by one into the mist—some are kings and queens in their own right,— some are friends, some are
                    dependants. From my caldron rise many figures crowned and uncrowned, some of whom I have looked upon
                    once perhaps, and then realized them in after-life from a different point of view. Now, perhaps,
                    looking back, one can tell their worth better than at the time; one knows which were the true
                    companions, which were the teachers and spiritual pastors, which were but shadows after all. The
                    most splendid person I ever remember seeing had a little pencil sketch in his hand, which he left
                    behind him upon the table. It was a very feeble sketch; it seemed scarcely possible that so grand a
                    being should not be a bolder draughtsman. He appeared to us one Sunday morning in the sunshine. When
                    I came down to breakfast I found him sitting beside my father at the table, with an untasted cup of
                    tea before him; he seemed to fill the bow-window with radiance as if he were Apollo; he leaned
                    against his chair with one elbow resting on its back, with shining studs and curls and boots. We
                    could see his horse looking in at us over the blind. It was indeed a sight  for little girls to remember all their lives. I think my father had a
                    certain weakness for dandies, those knights of the broadcloth and shining fronts. Magnificent
                    apparitions used to dawn upon us in the hall sometimes, glorious beings on their way to the study,
                    but this one outshone them all. I came upon a description in Lord Lamington's Book of
                        Dandies the other day, which once more evoked the shining memory. Our visitor was Count
                    D'Orsay, of whom Lord Lamington says: "When he appeared in the perfection of dress (for the
                        tailor's art had not died out with George IV.), with that expression of self-confidence and
                        complacency which the sense of superiority gives, he was the observed of all! In those days men
                        took great pains with themselves, they did not slouch and moon thro' life .... I have frequently
                        ridden down to Richmond with Count D'Orsay; a striking figure he was; his blue coat, thrown well
                        back to show the wide expanse of snowy shirt-front, his buff waistcoat, his light leathers and
                        polished boots, his well-curled whiskers and handsome countenance; a wide-brimmed glossy hat,
                        and spotless white gloves." Mr. Richard Doyle used to tell us a little story of a well-known
                    literary man who was so carried away by the presence of the brilliant D'Orsay at some city banquet
                    that in a burst of enthusiasm he was heard to call aloud, above the din of voices, "Waiter! for
                        Heaven's sake bring melted butter for the flounder of the Count." The Count  must have been well used to melted butter, as he proceeded on his
                    triumphant road, nor did his genius fail him to the last. I have read somewhere a curious
                    description of the romantic sarcophagus he finally devised for himself in a sort of temple, a flight
                    of marble steps leading to a marble shrine where he was duly laid when he died, not long after his
                    return to his own country and to the land of his fathers. He is of that race of men who lived in the
                    beginning of the century, magnificent performers of life's commonplaces, representative heroes and
                    leaders of the scene. Byron belonged to the brilliant company, and greatly admired Count D'Orsat.
                    There is a certain absence of the florid, a frozen coldness in the fashion of to-day which strikes
                    those who remember the more flamboyant generation.
                I remember a visit from another hero of those times. We were walking across Kensington Square early
                    one morning, when we heard some one hurrying after us and calling, "Thackeray,
                        Thackeray!" This was also one of Byron's friends—a bright-eyed, active old man, with
                    long, wavy white hair, and a picturesque cloak flung over one shoulder. I can see him still, as he
                    crossed the corner of the square and followed us with a light, rapid step. My father, stopping
                    short, turned back to meet him, greeting him kindly, and bringing him home with  us to the old brown house at the corner where we were then living. There
                    was a sort of eagerness and vividness of manner about the stranger which was very impressive. You
                    could not help watching him and his cloak, which kept slipping from its place, and which he caught
                    at again and again. We wondered at his romantic, foreign looks, and his gayety and bright, eager
                    way. Afterwards we were told that this was Leigh Hunt. We knew his name very well, for on the
                    drawing-room table, in company with various Ruskins and Punches, lay a pretty,
                    shining book called A Jar of Honey from Mount Hybla, from which, in that dilettante,
                    childish fashion which is half play, half impatience, and search for something else, we had
                    contrived to extract our own allowance of honey. It was still an event to see a real author in those
                    days, specially an author with a long cloak flung over his shoulder; though, for the matter of that,
                    it is still and always will be an event to see the faces and hear the voices of those whose thoughts
                    have added something delightful to our lives. Not very long afterwards came a different visitor,
                    still belonging to that same company of people. I had thrown open the dining- room door and come in,
                    looking for something, and then I stopped short, for the room was not empty. A striking and somewhat
                    alarming-looking person stood alone by the fireplace with folded arms-—a  dark, impressive-looking man, not tall, but broad and brown and
                    weather-beaten—gazing with a sort of scowl at his own reflection in the glass. As I entered he
                    turned slowly and looked at me over his shoulder. This time it was Trelawny, Byron's biographer and
                    companion, who had come to see my father. He frowned, walked deliberately and slowly from the room,
                    and I saw him no more. As I have said, all these people now seem almost like figures out of a fairy
                    tale. One could almost as well imagine Sindbad, or Prince Charming, or the Seven Champions of
                    Christendom dropping in for an hour's chat. But each generation, however matter-of-fact it may be,
                    sets up fairy figures in turn, to wonder at and delight in. I had not then read any of the books
                    which have since appeared, though I had heard my elders talking, and I knew from hearsay something
                    of the strange, pathetic, irrational histories of these by-gone wanderers searching the world for
                    the Golden Fleece and the Enchanted Gardens. These were the only members of that special,
                    impracticable, romantic crew of Argonauts I ever saw, though I have read and reread their histories
                    and diaries so that I seem to know them all, and can almost hear their voices.
                One of the most notable persons who ever came into our old bow-windowed drawing-room in Young  Street is a guest never to be forgotten by me-—a tiny, delicate
                    little person, whose small hand nevertheless grasped a mighty lever which set all the literary world
                    of that day vibrating. I can still see the scene quite plainly!—the hot summer evening, the open
                    windows, the carriage driving to the door as we all sat silent and expectant; my father, who rarely
                    waited, waiting with us; our governess and my sister and I all in a row, and prepared for the great
                    event. We saw the carriage stop, and out of it sprang the active, well-knit figure of young Mr.
                    George Smith, who was bringing Miss Brontë to see our father. My father, who had been walking up and
                    down the room, goes out into the hall to meet his guests, and then, after a moment's delay, the door
                    opens wide, and the two gentlemen come in, leading a tiny, delicate, serious little lady, pale, with
                    fair, straight hair, and steady eyes. She may be a little over thirty; she is dressed in a little
                    barge dress with a pattern of faint green moss. She enters in mittens, in silence, in seriousness;
                    our hearts are beating with wild excitement. This, then, is the authoress, the unknown power whose
                    books have set all London talking, reading, speculating; some people even say our father wrote the
                    books—the wonderful books. To say that we little girls had been given Jane Eyre to
                    read scarcely represents the facts of the case; to say that we had 
                    taken it without leave, read bits here and read bits there, been carried away by an undreamed-of and
                    hitherto unimagined whirlwind into things, times, places, all utterly absorbing and at the same time
                    absolutely unintelligible to us, would more accurately describe our states of mind on that summer's
                    evening as we look at Jane Eyre—-the great Jane Eyre—-the tiny little lady. The moment is so
                    breathless that dinner comes as a relief to the solemnity of the occasion, and we all smile as my
                    father stoops to offer his arm, for, genius though she may be, Miss Brontë can barely reach his
                    elbow. My own personal impressions are that she is somewhat grave and stern, specially to forward
                    little girls who wish to chatter. Mr. George Smith has since told me how she afterwards remarked
                    upon my father's wonderful forbearance and gentleness with our uncalled-for incursions into the
                    conversation. She sat gazing at him with kindling eyes of interest, lighting up with a sort of
                    illumination every now and then as she answered him. I can see her bending forward over the table,
                    not eating, but listening to what he said as he carved the dish before him.
                I think it must have been on this very occasion that my father invited some of his friends in the
                    evening to meet Miss Brontë, for everybody was interested and anxious to see her. Mrs. Crowe, the
                         reciter of ghost-stories, was there. Mrs. Brookfield, Mrs.
                    Carlyle—-Mr. Carlyle himself was present, so I am told, railing at the appearance of cockneys upon
                    Scotch mountain-sides; there were also too many Americans for his taste; "but the Americans were
                        as God compared to the cockneys," says the philosopher. Besides the Carlyles, there were
                    Mrs. Elliott and Miss Perry, Mrs. Procter and her daughter, most of my father's habitual friends and
                    companions. In the recent life of Lord Houghton I was amused to see a note quoted in which Lord
                    Houghton also was convened. Would that he had been present!—perhaps the party would have gone off
                    better. It was a gloomy and a silent evening. Every one waited for the brilliant conversation which
                    never began at all. Miss Brontë retired to the sofa in the study, and murmured a low word now and
                    then to our kind governess, Miss Truelock. The room looked very dark; the lamp began to smoke a
                    little; the conversation grew dimmer and more dim; the ladies sat round still expectant; my father
                    was too much perturbed by the gloom and the silence to be able to cope with it at all. Mrs.
                    Brookfield, who was in the doorway by the study, near the corner in which Miss Brontë was sitting,
                    leaned forward with a little commonplace, since brilliance was not to be the order of the evening.
                    "Do you like London, Miss Brontë?" she said. Another  silence, a
                    pause; then Miss Brontë answers "Yes" and "No" very gravely. My sister and I were much too young to
                    be bored in those days; alarmed, impressed we might be, but not yet bored. A party was a party, a
                    lioness was a lioness; and—shall I confess it?—at that time an extra dish of biscuits was enough to
                    mark the evening. We felt all the importance of the occasion—tea spread in the dining-room, ladies
                    in the drawing-room. We roamed about inconveniently, no doubt, and excitedly; and in one of my
                    excursions crossing the hall, towards the close of the entertainment, I was surprised to see my
                    father opening the front door with his hat on. He put his fingers to his lips, walked out into the
                    darkness, and shut the door quietly behind him. When I went back to the drawing-room again, the
                    ladies asked me where he was. I vaguely answered that I thought he was coming back. I was puzzled at
                    the time, nor was it all made clear to me till long years afterwards, when one day Mrs. Procter
                    asked me if I knew what had happened once when my father had invited a party to meet Jane Eyre at
                    his house. It was one of the dullest evenings she had ever spent in her life, she said. And then
                    with a good deal of humor she described the situation—the ladies who had all come expecting so much
                    delightful conversation, and how as the evening went on the gloom and the constraint  increased, and how finally, after the' departure of the more important
                    guests, overwhelmed by the situation, my father had quietly left the room, left the house, and gone
                    off to his club. The ladies waited, wondered, and finally departed also; and as we were going up to
                    bed with our candles after everybody was gone, I remember two pretty Miss L—-s, in shiny silk
                    dresses, arriving, full of expectation . . . We still said we thought our father would soon be back;
                    but the Miss L—-s declined to wait upon the chance, laughed, and drove away again almost
                    immediately.
                Since writing the preceding lines, I have visited Jane Eyre land, and stayed in the
                    delightful home where she used to stay with Mrs. Gaskell. I have seen signs and tokens of her
                    presence, faint sketches vanishing away, the delicate writing in the beautiful books she gave that
                    warm friend; and I have also looked for and reread the introduction to Emma, that "last sketch" and
                    most touching chap- ter in the never-to-be-written book of Charlotte Brontë's happy married life.
                    The paper is signed "W. M. T.;" it was written by the editor, and is printed in one of the very
                    earliest numbers of the Cornhill Magazine.
                I remember the trembling little frame, the little  hand, the great
                    honest eyes; an impetuous honesty seemed to me to characterize the woman. .... I fancied an austere
                    little Joan of Arc marching in upon us and rebuking our easy lives, our easy morals. She gave me the
                    impression of being a very pure and lofty and high-minded person. A great and holy reverence of
                    right and truth seemed to be with her always. Such in our brief interview she appeared to me. As one
                    thinks of that life so noble, so lonely—of that passion for truth—of those nights and nights of
                    eager study, swarming fancies, invention, depression, elation, and prayer; as one reads of the
                    necessarily incomplete though most touching and admirable history of the heart that throbbed in this
                    one little frame—of this one among the myriads of souls that have lived and died on this great
                    earth—this great earth!—this little speck in the infinite universe of God, with what wonder do we
                    think of to-day, with what awe await to-morrow, when that which is now but darkly seen shall be
                    clear!
                As I write out what my father's hand has writ- ten my gossip is hushed, and seems to me like the lamp
                    smoke in the old drawing-room compared to the light of the summer's night in the street outside.
                I am suddenly conscious as I write that my experiences  are very
                    partial; but a witch's caldron must needs after all contain heterogeneous scraps, and mine, alas!
                    can be no exception to the rest. It produces nothing more valuable than odds and ends happily
                    harmless enough, neither sweltered venom nor fillet of finny snake, but the back of one great man's
                    head, the hat and umbrella of another. The first time I ever saw Mr. Gladstone I only saw the soles
                    of his boots. A friend had taken me into the ventilator of the House of Commons, where we listened
                    to a noble speech and watched the two shadows on the grating overhead of the feet of the messenger
                    of glad tidings. One special back I cannot refrain from writing down, in a dark blue frock-coat and
                    strapped trousers, walking leisurely before us up Piccadilly. The sun is shining, and an odd sort of
                    brass buckle which fastens an old-fashioned stock, flashes like a star. "Do look!" I say. "Who is
                    that old gentleman?" " That old gentleman ! Why, that is the Duke of Wellington," said my father. On
                    another occasion I remember some one coming up to us and beginning to talk very charmingly, and
                    among other things describing some new lord mayor who had been in state to a theatrical performance,
                    by which it seemed he had been much affected. "I cried, I do assure you," the lord mayor had said,
                    "and as for the lady mayoress, she cry too;" and the gentleman 
                    smiled and told the little story so dryly and drolly that my sister and I couldn't help laughing,
                    and we went on repeating to one another afterwards, "As for the lady mayoress, she cry too." And
                    then as usual we asked who was that. "Don't you know Lord Palmerston by sight?" said my fa-
                    ther.
                I have a friend who declares that Fate is a humorist, linking us all together by strangest whims,
                    even by broad jokes at times; and this vague little humor of the weeping lady mayoress is my one
                    personal link with the great Whig administrator of the last generation.
                Another miscellaneous apparition out of my caldron rises before me as I write. On a certain day we
                    went to call at Mrs. Procter's with our father. We found an old man standing in the middle of the
                    room, taking leave of his hostess, nodding his head—he was a little like a Chinese mandarin with an
                    ivory face. His expression never changed, but seemed quite fixed. He knew my father, and spoke to
                    him and to us too, still in this odd, fixed way. Then he looked at my sister. "My little girl," he
                    said to her, "will you come and live with me You shall be as happy as the day is long; you shall
                    have a white pony tor ride, and feed upon red-currant jelly." This prospect was so alarming and
                    unexpected that the poor little girl suddenly blushed up  and burst
                    into tears. The old man was Mr. Sam- uel Rogers, but happily he did not see her cry, for he was
                    already on his way to the door.
                My father was very fond of going to the play, and he used to take us when we were children, one on
                    each side of him, in a hansom. He used to take us to the opera too, which was less of a treat.
                    Magnificent envelopes, with unicorns and heraldic emblazonments, used to come very frequently,
                    containing tickets and boxes for the opera. In those days we thought everybody had boxes for the
                    opera as a matter of course. We used to be installed in the front places with our chins resting on
                    the velvet ledges of the box. For a time it used to be very delightful, then sometimes I used
                    suddenly to wake up to find the singing still going on and on as in a dream. I can still see
                    Lablache, a huge reverberating mountain, a sort of Olympus, thundering forth glorious sounds, and
                    addressing deep resounding notes to what seemed to me then a sort of fairy in white. She stood on
                    tiny feet, she put up a delicate finger and sent forth a sweet vibration of song in answer, sweeter,
                    shriller, more charming every instant. Did she fly right up into the air, or was it my own head that
                    came down with a sleepy nod? I slept, I awoke; and each time I was conscious of this exquisite
                    floating ripple of music flowing in and out of my dreams. The singer was Mademoiselle  Sontag; it was the "Elisire," or some such opera, overflowing like a
                    lark's carol. All the great golden house applauded; my father applauded. I longed to hear more, but
                    in vain I struggled, I only slumbered again, waking from minute to minute to see the lovely little
                    lady in white still pouring forth her melody to the thousand lights and people. I find when I
                    consult my faithful confidante and sympathizer in these
                    small memories of what is now so nearly, forgotten, that I am not alone in my admiring impressions
                    of this charming person. My confidante is the Biographie Générale, where I find an account, no sleepy
                    visionary impression, such as my own, but a very definite and charming portrait of the bright fairy
                    of my dreams, of Mademoiselle Sontag, Comtesse Rossi, who came to London in 1849:-"On rémarquait surtout la limpidité de ses gammes chromatiques et l'éclat de ses
                        trilles... Et toutes ces merveilles s'accomplissaient avec une grâce parfaite, sans que le
                        regard fût jamais attristé par le moindre effort. La figure charmante de Mademoiselle Sontag,
                        ses beaux yeux bleus, limpides et doux, ses formes élégantes, sa taille é1ancée et souple
                        achevaient le tableau et complétaient l'enchantement."
                It seems sad to have enjoyed this delightful per- formance only in one's dreams, but under these
                    humiliating circumstances, when the whole world was  heaving and
                    struggling to hear the great singer of the North, and when the usual box arrived for the "Figlia del Reggimento," my grandmother, who was with us, invited two
                    friends of her own, grown up and accustomed to keep awake, and my sister and I were not included in
                    the party. We were not disappointed, we imagined the songs for ourselves as
                    children do. We gathered all our verbenas and geraniums for a nosegay and gave it to our guests to
                    carry, and watched the carriage roll off in the twilight with wild hopes, unexpressed, that perhaps
                    the flowers would be cast upon the stage at the feet of the great singer. But though the flowers re-
                    turned home again crushed and dilapidated, and though we did not hear the song, it was a reality for
                    me, and lasted until a day long years after, when I heard that stately and glorious voice flashing
                    into my darkness with a shock of amazement never to be forgotten, and then and there realized how
                    futile an imagination may be.
                Alas! I never possessed a note of music of my own, though I have cared for it in a patient,
                    unrequited way all my life long. My father always loved music and understood it too; he knew his
                    opera tunes by heart. I have always liked the little story of his landing with his companions at
                    Malta on his way to the East, and as no one of the company happened to speak Italian he was able to
                    interpret  for the whole party by humming lines from various
                    operas, "'Un biglietto—Eccolo quâ,'" says my father to the man from
                    the shore, "'Lascia darem' la mano,'" and he helped Lady T. up the
                    gangway, and so on. He used sometimes to bring Mr. Ella home to dine with him, and he liked to hear
                    his interesting talk about music. Through Mr. Ella's kindness the doors of the Musical Union flew
                    open wide to us.
                My father used to write in his study at the back of the house in Young Street. The vine shaded his
                    two windows, which looked out upon the bit of garden and the medlar-tree and the Spanish jasmines of
                    which the yellow flowers scented our old brick walls. I can remember the tortoise belonging to the
                    boys next door crawling along the top of the wall where they had set it, and making its way between
                    the jasmine sprigs. Jasmines won't grow now any more, as they did then, in the gardens of
                    Kensington, nor will medlars and vine trees take root and spread their green branches; only herbs
                    and bulbs, such as lilies and Solomon's seals, seem to flourish, though I have a faint hope that all
                    the things people put in will come up all right some centuries hence, when London is resting and at
                    peace, and has turned into the grass-grown ruin one so often hears described. Our garden was not
                    tidy (though on one grand occasion a man came  to mow the grass),
                    but it was full of sweet things. There were verbenas-red, blue, and scented; and there were lovely
                    stacks of flags, blades of green with purple heads between, and bunches of London-pride growing
                    luxuriantly; and there were some blush-roses at the end of the garden which were not always quite
                    eaten up by the caterpillars. Lady Duff Gordon came to stay with us once (it was on that occasion, I
                    think, that the grass was mowed), and she afterwards sent us some doves, which used to hang high up
                    in a wicker cage from the windows of the school-room. The top school- room was over my father's
                    bedroom, and the bed- room was over the study where he used to write. I liked the top school-room
                    the best of all the rooms in the dear old house; the sky was in it, and the evening bells used to
                    ring into it across the garden, and seemed to come in dancing and clanging with the sunset; and the
                    floor sloped so that if you put down a ball it would roll in a leisurely way right across the room
                    of its own accord. And then there was a mystery—a small trap-door between the windows which we never
                    could open. Where did not that trap-door lead to? It was the gate- way of Paradise, of many
                    paradises to us. We kept our dolls, our bricks, our books, our baby-houses in the top room, and most
                    of our stupid little fancies. My little sister had a menagerie of snails and flies  in the sunny window-sill; these latter, chiefly invalids rescued out of
                    milk-jugs, lay upon rose-leaves in various little pots and receptacles. She was very fond of
                    animals, and so was my father—at least, he always liked our animals. Now, looking
                    back, I am full of wonder at the number of cats we were allowed to keep, though De la Pluche, the
                    butler, and Gray, the housekeeper, waged war against them. The cats used to come to us from the
                    garden, for then, as now, the open spaces of Kensington abounded in fauna. My sister used to adopt
                    and christen them all in turn by the names of her favorite heroes; she had Nicholas Nickleby, a huge
                    gray tabby, and Martin Chuzzlewit, and a poor little half-starved Barnaby Rudge, and many others.
                    Their saucers used to be placed in a row on the little terrace at the back of my father's study,
                    under the vine where the sour green grapes grew—not at all out of reach; and at the farther end of
                    which was an empty greenhouse ornamented by the busts of my father as a boy, and of a rela- tion in
                    a military cloak.
                One of my friends—she never lived to be an old woman—used to laugh and say that she had reached the
                    time of life when she loved to see even the people her parents had particularly disliked, just for
                    the sake of old times. I don't know how I should feel if I were to meet one agreeable,  cordial gentleman, who used to come on horseback and invite us to all
                    sorts of dazzling treats arid entertainments which, to our great disappointment, my father
                    invariably refused, saying, "No, I don't like him; I don't want to have anything to do with him."
                    The wretched man fully justified these objections by getting himself transported long after for a
                    protracted course of peculiarly deliberate and cold-blooded fraud. On one occasion, a friend told
                    me, he was talking to my father, and mentioning some one in good repute at the time, and my father
                    incidentally spoke as if he knew of a murder that person had committed. "You know it, then!" said
                    the other man. "Who could have told you?" My father had never been told, but he had known it all
                    along, he said; and, indeed, he sometimes spoke of this curious feeling he had about people at
                    times, as if uncomfortable facts in their past history were actually revealed to him. At the same
                    time I do not think anybody had a greater enjoyment than he in other people's goodness and well-
                    doing; he used to be proud of a boy's prizes at school, he used to be proud of a woman's sweet voice
                    or of her success in housekeeping. He had a friend in the Victoria Road hard by whose delightful
                    household ways he used to describe, and I can still hear the lady he called "Jingleby" war- bling
                        O du schöne Müllerin," to his great delight.  Any generous thing or word seemed like something happening to himself. I
                    can remember, when David Copperfield came out, hearing him saying, in his emphatic
                    way, to my grandmother that "little Em'ly's letter to old Peggotty was a masterpiece." I wondered to
                    hear him at the time, for that was not at all the part I cared for most, nor, indeed, could I
                    imagine how little Em'ly ever was so stupid as to run away from Peggotty's enchanted house-boat. But
                    we each and all enjoyed in turn our share of those thin green books full of delicious things, and
                    how glad we were when they came to our hands at last, after our elders and our governess and our
                    butler had all read them in turn.
                It is curious to me now to remember, considering how little we met and what a long way off they
                    lived, what an important part the Dickens household played in our childhood. But the Dickens books
                    were as much a part of our home as our own father's.
                Certainly the Dickens children's parties were shining facts in our early London days—nothing came in
                    the least near them. There were other parties—and they were very nice—but nothing to compare to
                    these; not nearly so light, not nearly so shining, not nearly so going round and round. Perhaps—so
                    dear K. P. suggests—it was not all as brilliantly wonderful as I imagined it; but most assuredly  the spirit of mirth and kindly jollity was a reality to every one
                    present, and the master of the house had that wondrous fairy gift of leadership. I know not what to
                    call that power by which he inspired every one with spirit and interest. One special party I
                    remember, which seemed to me to go on for years with its kind, gay hospitality, its music, its
                    streams of children passing and repassing. We were a little shy coming in alone in all the
                    consciousness of new shoes and ribbons, but Mrs. Dickens called us to sit beside her till the long
                    sweeping dance was over, and talked to us as if we were grown up, which is always flattering to
                    little girls. Then Miss Hogarth found us partners, and we, too, formed part of the throng. I
                    remember watching the white satin shoes and long, flowing white sashes of the little Dickens girls,
                    who were just about our own age, but how much more graceful and beautifully dressed! Our sashes were
                    bright plaids of red and blue (tributes from one of our father's Scotch admirers. Is it ungrateful
                    to confess now after all these years that we could not bear them?), our shoes were only bronze.
                    Shall I own to this passing shadow amid all that radiance? But when people are once dancing they are
                    all equal again and happy.
                Somehow after the music we all floated into a long supper-room, and I found myself sitting near the
                         head of the table by Mr. Dickens, with another little girl
                    much younger than myself; she wore a necklace and pretty little sausage curls all round her head.
                    Mr. Dickens was very kind to the little girl, and presently I heard him persuading her to sing, and
                    he put his arm round her to encourage her; and then, wonderful to say, the little girl stood up (she
                    was little Miss Hullah) and began very shyly, trem- bling and blushing at first, but as she blushed
                    and trembled she sang more and more sweetly; and then all the jeunesse dorée, consisting of the little Dickens boys and their friends, ranged along
                    the supper-table, clapped and clapped, and Mr. Dickens clapped too, smiling and applauding her. And
                    then he made a little speech; with one hand on the table; I think it was thanking the jeunesse dorée for their applause, and they again clapped and
                    laughed-but here my memory fails me, and everything grows very vague and like a dream.
                Only this much I do remember very clearly, that we had danced and supped and danced again, and that
                    we were all standing in a hall lighted and hung with bunches of Christmas green, and, as I have
                    said, everything seemed altogether magnificent and important, more magnificent and important every
                    minute, for as the evening went on more and more people kept arriving. The hall was crowded, and the
                    broad staircase was lined with little boys—  thousands of little
                    boys—whose heads and legs and arms were waving about together. They were making a great noise, and
                    talking and shouting, and the eldest son of the house seemed to be marshalling them. Presently their
                    noise became a cheer, and then another, and we looked up and saw that our own father had come to
                    fetch us, and that his white head was there above the others; then came a third final ringing cheer,
                    and some one went up to him—it was Mr. Dickens himself—who laughed and said quickly, "That is for
                    you!" and my father looked up surprised, pleased, touched, settled his spectacles, and nodded
                    gravely to the little boys.

            

            
            

            
                IN KENSINGTON


                
                
                VI
                 OURS was more or less a bachelor's establishment, and the arrangements of the house varied between a
                    certain fastidiousness and the roughest simplicity. We had shabby table-cloths, alternating with
                    some of my grandmother's fine linen; we had old Derby china for our dessert of dried figs and dry
                    biscuits, and a silver Flaxman teapot (which always poured oblations of tea upon the cloth) for
                    breakfast, also three cracked cups and saucers of unequal patterns and sizes. One morning, Jeames de
                    la Pluche (so my father's servant and factotum chose to call himself when he wrote to the papers)
                    brought in a hamper which had just arrived. When it was unpacked we found, to our great
                    satisfaction, that it contained a lovely breakfast array: A china bowl for my father's tea,
                    ornamented with his initials in gold amid a trellis of roses; beautiful cups for the young ladies,
                    lovely gilt milk-jugs, and a copy of verses, not written, but put together out of printed letters
                    from the Times. I quote it from memory:

                
                    
                        
                            "Of esteem as a token—
                             Fate preserve it unbroken—

                            
                            A friend sends this tea-dish of porcelain rare,
                            And with truth and sincerity
                            Wishes health and prosperity
                            To the famed M. A. Titmarsh of Vanity Fair."
                        
                    
                

                 We could not imagine who the friend was from whom the opportune present had come. For many
                    breakfasts we speculated and wondered, guessing one person and another in turn, while we sat at our
                    now elegant board, of which Dr. Oliver Holmes himself might have approved. Years afterwards, when De
                    la Pluche was taking leave of my father and sailing for Australia, where he obtained a responsible
                    position, he said, reproachfully: "I sent you the breakfast things; you guessed a great many people,
                    but ybu never guessed they came from me."
                De la Pluche was devoted to my father, and next to him he seemed the most important member of the
                    household. He was more than devoted. We used to think he was a sorcerer. He used to guess at my
                    father's thoughts, plan for him, work for him, always knew beforehand what he would like far better
                    than we ever did. I remember that we almost cried on one occasion, thinking that our father would
                    ultimately prefer him to us. He used to write to the papers and sign his letters, "Jeames de la
                    Pluche, 13 Young Street." "Like to see my last, miss?" he used to say, as he put down a paper on the
                    school-room table. He was a very good and  clever man, though a
                    stern ruler. My father had a real friendship and regard for him, and few of his friends ever
                    deserved it more. He 'lived alone down-stairs, where he was treated with great deference, and had
                    his meals served separately, I believe. He always called my father "the Governor." He was a little
                    man, and was very like Holbein's picture of Sir Thomas More in looks. I remember on one occasion
                    coming away from some lecture or entertainment. As we got out into the street it was raining. "It
                    has turned cold," said my father, who was already beginning to be ill. At that moment a voice behind
                    him said, " Coat, sir? Brought it down;" and there was De la Pluche, who had brought his coat all
                    the way from Kensington, helping him on with it. My father thanked him, and then mechanically felt
                    in the pocket for a possible cigar-case. " Cigar? Here," says De la Pluche, popping one into my
                    father's mouth, and producing a match ready lighted.
                I sometimes hear from my old friend, and I hope he may not be pained by reading of these childish
                    jealousies long past.
                When we were children attending our classes we used to be encouraged to study large sheets with
                    colored designs, representing the solar system and its various intricacies. One can understand the
                    pictures in the book while one is looking at them,  but it is a
                    very different thing from looking at pictures to try to understand the reality as it exists outside
                    the print, and to stand on one's own door- step trying to realize that the earth is turning one way
                    and the moon corkscrewing round it, and the planets dancing their mighty course, and the fixed stars
                    disappearing all the time behind the opposite roof, to say nothing of a possibility that one's feet
                    are up in the air and one's head hanging down below, without any feeling of inconvenience, except,
                    perhaps, a certain bewilderment and confusion on most subjects, which may, however, be peculiar to
                    myself. And so, looking back at one's own life, it is difficult to fit all the events and
                    chronologies quite accurately into their places. If one tries to realize too much at once, the
                    impression is apt to grow chaotic and unmeaning in its complexity; you can't get the proportions of
                    events; and perhaps, indeed, one of the compensating constituents of all our various existences
                    consists in that disproportion which passing impressions happily take for us, and which they often
                    retain notwithstanding the experiences of years.
                That little picture of Bewick's in which a falling leaf conceals the sky, the road, the passing gig
                    and its occupants, has always seemed to me to contain the secret of a philosophy which makes
                    existence itself more possible than it would be if infinity  held
                    its proportional place in our finite experience.
                Our London home was a happy, but a very quiet home:: One day my father said that he had been
                    surprised to hear from his friend Sir Henry Davison how seriously our house struck people, com-
                    pared to other houses: "But I think we are very happy as we are," said he, and so, indeed, we were.
                    We lived chiefly with him and with quite little children, or with our grandparents when they came
                    over to visit us. There was certainly a want of initiation; in our house there was no one to suggest
                    all sorts of delightful possibilities, which, as we grew up, might have been made more of; but
                    looking back I chiefly regret it in so far as I think he might have been happier if we had brought a
                    little more action and sunshine into daily life, and taken a little more on our own responsibility
                    instead of making ourselves into his shadows.
                When my father had done his day's work he liked a change of scene and thought. I think he was always
                    glad to leave the ink-blots for his beloved dabs of paint. Sometimes he used to drive into town on
                    the top of an omnibus, sometimes in a brougham; very often he used to take us with him in hansoms
                    (which we much preferred) on long expeditions to Hampstead, to Richmond, to Greenwich, or to studios
                    in distant quarters of the town.  There was Mr. David Roberts's
                    studio; his welcome was certain, and his sketch-books were an unfailing delight to turn over;
                    indeed, the drawings were so accurate, delicate, and suggestive that they used to make one almost
                    giddy to look at. Once or twice we went to Mr. Cattermole's, who had a studio among the Hampstead
                    hills, hidden among ancient walls and ivy-trees. Mr. Du Maurier was not yet living there, or I am
                    sure we should have driven farther up the hill. As life goes on one grudges that time and chance
                    alone should have separated people who would have been so happy with each other. Sometimes we used
                    to go to Sir Edwin Landseer's beautiful villa in St. John's Wood, and enjoy his delightful company.
                    Among his many stories, as he stood painting at his huge canvases, I remember his once telling us an
                    anecdote of one of his dogs. He was in the habit of taking it out every day after his work was
                    over.. The dog used to wait patiently all day long while Sir Edwin was painting, but he used to come
                    and lie down at his feet and look up in his face towards five o'clock; and on one occasion, finding
                    his hints disregarded, he trotted into the hall and came back with the painter's hat, which he laid
                    on the floor before him. Then we always enjoyed going on to the house of a neighbor of Sir Edwin's,
                    Mr. Charles Leslie, who dwelt somewhere in that locality with a delightful  household. To say nothing of the actual members of that painter's home,
                    there were others also belonging to it who were certainly all but alive. I can still see my father
                    standing in the South Kensington Museum, sympathetic and laughing before the picture of Sancho
                    Panza, in which he sits with his finger to his nose, with that look of portentous wisdom and
                    absurdity. As for the charming duchess, whose portrait is also to be seen, she, or her prototypes,
                    must surely have dwelt in the painter's own home. Mr. Dickens used to be at the Leslies' sometimes,
                    and though I cannot quite account for it, I have a general impression of fireworks perpetually going
                    off just outside their windows.
                One day that we had come home from one of these expeditions in a big blue fly, with a bony horse—it
                    was a.bright blue fly, with a drab inside to it, and an old white coachman on the box—my father,
                    after a few words of consultation with the coachman, drove off again, and shortly afterwards
                    returning on foot, told us that he had just bought the whole concern, brougham and horse and
                    harness, and that he had sent Jackson (our driver.had now become Jackson) to be measured for a
                    great-coat. So henceforward we came and went about in our own private carriage, which, however,
                    never lost its original name of "the fly," although Jackson's 
                    buttons shone resplendent with the Thackeray crest, and the horse, too, seemed brushed up and
                    promoted to be private.
                I remember, or I think I remember, driving in this vehicle to Mr. Frank Stone's studio in Tavistock
                    Square, and how he and my father began laughing and talking about early days. "Do you remember that
                    portrait I began to paint of you over the lady with the guitar?" Mr. Stone said, and he added that
                    he had the picture still, and, going into some deep cupboard, he brought out a cheerful, florid
                    picture of my father as I for one had never seen him, with thick black hair and a young, ruddy face.
                    We brought it away with us, and I have it now, and the lady's red dress still appears in the
                    background. It is perhaps fortunate that people, as a rule, are well and happy, and at their best,
                    when their portraits are painted. If one looks down the Academy list year by year, one sees that the
                    pictures represent gentlemen who have just been made bishops, or speakers, or governors-general; or
                    ladies who are brides in their lovely new clothes and jewels. Sad folks hide their heads, sick folks
                    turn them away and are not fit subjects for the painter's art; and yet, as I write, I am also
                    conscious that facts contradict me, and that there has been a fine run of late upon nurses and
                    death-bed scenes in general.


                

                The happy hour had not yet come for us when Mr. Watts came to live in Kensington at Little Holland
                    House, and built his studios there. This was in later times, and after we had just passed beyond the
                    great pinafore age, which sets such a stamp upon after-life, and to which my recollections seem
                    chiefly to revert.
                He always said that he should like to paint a picture of my father, but the day for the sitting,
                    alas, never came. And yet I can imagine what that picture might have been—a portrait, such as some
                    portraits, with that mysterious reality in them, that present, which is quite
                    apart from time and dates.
                I am sure there was no one among all his friends whose society my father enjoyed more than he did
                    that of John Leech, whom he first remembered, so he has often told us with a smile, a small boy at
                    the Charterhouse, in a little blue buttoned-up suit, set up on a form and made to sing "Home, Sweet
                    Home" to the others crowding round about. Mr. Leech was anything but a small boy when I remember him
                    in the old Young Street dining-room, where De la Pluche was laying the cloth while Mr. Leech and my
                    father sat talking by the fire. He was very handsome and tall, and kind and shy, and he spoke in a
                    husky, melodious voice; we admired him very much; he was always beautifully dressed, and we used to
                    see him come riding up to the door on nice  shining horses; and he
                    generally came to invite us all to something delightful, to go there or to dine with him and his
                    wife at Richmond or elsewhere. My father liked to take us about with him, and I am surprised, as I
                    think of it, at the great good-nature of his friends, who used so constantly to include two
                    inconvenient little girls in the various invitations they sent him. We used to be asked early, and
                    to arrive at all sorts of unusual times. We used to lunch with our hosts and spend long afternoons,
                    and then about dinner-time our father would come in, and sit smoking after dinner while we waited
                    with patient ladies up-stairs. Mrs. Brookfield used to live in Portman Street in those days, and
                    thither we used to go very frequently, and to Mrs. Procter's, as well as to various relations'
                    houses, Indian cousins of my father's coming to town for a season with their colonels and their
                    families. Time after time we used to go to the Leeches, who lived in Brunswick Square. We used to
                    play with the baby, we used to turn over endless books of pictures, and perhaps go out for a walk
                    with kind Mrs. Leech, and sometimes (but this happened very rarely) we used to be taken up to the
                    room where John Leech himself sat at his drawing-table under the square of silver paper which
                    softened the light as it fell upon his blocks. There was his back as he bent over his work, there
                    were the tables loaded  with picture-books and drawing-blocks, huge
                    blocks, four times the size of any at home, ready for next week's Punch; but our
                    entrance disturbed him (we instinctively felt how much), and we used to hurry quickly back to the
                    drawing-books down-stairs, and go on turning over the pencil sketches. I have some of them now,
                    those drawings so roughly indicated, at first so vague, and then by degrees worked upon and altered
                    and modelled and forced into their life as it were, obliged to laugh, charmed into
                    kindly wit; as I look at them now, I still recognize the aspect of those by-gone days and places,
                    and I cannot help thinking how much more interesting to remember are some of the shabby homes in
                    which work and beauty and fun are made, than those more luxurious and elaborate,
                    which dazzle us so much more at the time, where everything one saw was only bought. But, after all,
                    the whole secret of life is made up of the things one makes, and those one steals, and those one
                    pays for.
                My own children turn over Leech's drawings now, as happily as we ourselves used to do, and it seems
                    to me sometimes as if they also are at play among our own old fancies and in our old haunts. There
                    are the rooms again. There is Mrs. Leech's old piano like an organ standing bolt upright against the
                    wall; there are the brown-holland covers on the chairs; there is the domestic lamp, looking (as the
                         lamps of one's youth used to look) tall and dismantled like
                    some gaunt light-house erected upon bare mahogany rocks. Besides these things, I remember with real
                    affection a lovely little miniature portrait of Mrs. Leech, which used to hang upon the wall, and
                    which was done at the time of her marriage. It was indeed the sweetest little picture; and when I
                    saw her one little granddaughter, Dorothy Gillett, this old favorite picture of my childhood came
                    into my mind. It may be hallucination, but, although the houses were so ugly in those days, I still
                    think the people in them looked almost nicer then than they do now.
                Madame Elise was the great oracle of the 'Fif- ties, and she used to turn out floating, dignified,
                    squashy beings with close pearly head-dresses and bonnets, and sloping, spreading draperies. They
                    are all to be seen in Mr. Leech's pictures still, and they may be about to come back to life,
                    crinolines and all, for anything I know to the contrary. But I hope not; I think this present
                    generation of women is a happier one than that one was. The characters of the people I remember were
                    certainly different from the characters of their daughters of the present, disporting themselves in
                    the golden Du Maurier age of liberty and out-door life. Mr. Leech once drew our own green curtains
                    for us in a little picture of two girls asking a child what it  for
                    dinner The child says, "Something that begins with a S"; and when asked what that might be, explains
                    that it was cold beef. A certain number of writers and designers for
                        Punch used to dine at Mr. Leech's, coming in with my father toward the close of
                    the day. I remember Mr. Tenniel there, and Mr. Percival Leigh, and Mr. Shirley Brookers, and Millais
                    in later days, and an eminent member of a different profession, the rent Dean of Rochester.
                    Sometimes, insted of dining in Brunswick Square or at the house in Kensington (to which they
                    afterwards removed), we used to be taken all away to Richmond, to enjoy happy hours upon the
                    terrace, and the light of setting suns.
                My father was pleased when some dozen years later the Leeches came to Kensington, and he was greatly
                    interested in their pretty old house. Mr. Leech was pleased too; and at first he used to describe
                    with resigned humor what, alas, became slow torture in the end to his strained nerves— the different
                    noises as they succeeded each other in what he had expected to find a quiet suburb of London: the
                    milkman, the carrier, the industrious carpenter, all following in rotation one by one, from the very
                    earliest morning. But his nerves were altogether overstrung. I remember hearing  him once, in far, far back times, tell a little story, scarcely perhaps
                    worth retelling. He was looking altogether ill and upset, and he told us that he had hardly
                    recovered from a little shock the night before. Coming home late, and as he went up- stairs, he had
                    been annoyed by hearing the howling of a dog in a garden at the back of the house. He did not know
                    that one of his young sisters had come to see his wife that evening, had been persuaded to stay for
                    the night, and put to sleep in the very room into which he now turned, throwing up the window to see
                    where the noise came from. The moon was shining, and happening to look round he was quite overcome,
                    seeing a figure lying motionless upon the bed, while the light poured coldly upon a white marble
                    profile.
                I was going along the Kensington Road towards Palace Green one fine morning, when I met my father
                    carefully carrying before him two blue Dutch china pots, which he had just surreptitiously taken
                    away out of his own study. "I am going to see if they won't stand upon Leech's dining-room
                    chimney-piece," he said. I followed him, hoping, I am afraid, that they would not stand there, for
                    we were well used to lament the accustomed disap- pearance of his pretty ornaments and china dishes.
                    People may have stared to see him carrying his china, but that I do not now remember—only  this, that he was amused and interested, and that we found the iron gates
                    open to the court in front, and the doors of the Leeches' house all wide open, though the house
                    itself was empty and the family had not yet arrived. Workmen were coming and going, lbusy hammering
                    carpets and making arrangements. We crossed the hall, and then my father led the way into the
                    pretty, old dining-room, with its new Turkey carpet and its tall windows looking to the gardens at
                    the back. "I knew they would stand there," said he, putting up the two blue pots on the high narrow
                    ledge; and there to my mind they will ever stand.
                It was in the Quarterly Review that my father wrote of Leech's pictures. " While we
                    live we must laugh," he says.
                Do we laugh enough? Our fathers laughed better than we do. Is it that we have overeaten of the fruit
                    of the tree pf knowledge? I cannot say. The art of design, as practised by the successors of John
                    Leech who have followed in his steps, still holds its own delightful sway; but the kindred arts of
                    action, of oratory, of literature, have, to some narrow-minded critics, taken most unpleasant forms
                    of sincerity. Sometimes I wonder how the moralist would write of us now, were he still among us. I
                    don't know how the present will strike the new generation, when it has grown up  to look back in turn upon this somewhat complicated phase of
                    civilization. Sheep's clothing is out of date, and wolf-skins all the fashion now; but they are
                    imitation wolf-skins. The would-be Lion affects the Donkey's ears; the Pharisee is anxious to be
                    seen in the Publican's society for the good impression it makes upon his constituency. It is all
                    very perplexing, and not very edifying to speculate on. And then I feel that any day, while one is
                    fumbling and probing and dissecting and splitting hairs, some genius such as John Leech silently
                    appears and touches commonplace things, and lo! here is a new light upon earth, a new happiness;
                    here is another smile in the land. "Can we have too much of truth and fun and beauty and kindness?"
                    said John Leech's Friend.

            
            
            
                TO WEIMAR AND BACK


                
                
                VII

                I SUPPOSE the outer circuit of my ovwn very limited wanderings must have been reached at the age of
                    thirteen or thereabouts, when my father took me and my little sister for the grand tour of Europe.
                    We had, of course, lived in Paris, and spent our summers in quiet sunny country places abroad with
                    our grandparents, but this was to be something different from anything we had ever known before at
                    St. Germains or Montmorenci among the donkeys. Switzerland and Venice and Vienna, Ger- many and the
                    Rhine! Our young souls thrilled with expectation. And yet those early feasts of life are not unlike
                    the miracle of the loaves and fishes: the twelve basketfuls that remain in after- years are
                    certainly even more precious than the feast itself.

                We started one sleety summer morning. My father was pleased to be off and we were enchanted. He had
                    bought a gray wide-awake hat for the journey, and he had a new sketch-book in his pocket, besides
                    two smaller ones for us, which he produced as the steamer was starting. We sailed from London  Bridge, and the decks were all wet and slippery as we came on
                    board. We were scatter-brained little girls, although we looked demure enough in our mushroom hats
                    and waterproofs. We had also prepared a travelling trousseau, which consisted of miscellaneous
                    articles belonging to the fancy-goods department of things in general, rather than to the usual
                    outfit of an English gentleman's family. I was not without some diffidence about my luggage. I
                    remember a draught-board, a large wooden work- box, a good many books, paint-boxes, and other odds
                    and ends; but I felt that whatever else might be deficient, our new bonnets would
                    bring us triumphantly out of every crisis. They were alike, but with a difference of blue and pink
                    wreaths of acacia, and brilliant in ribbons to match, at a time when people affected less dazzling
                    colors than they do now. Of course, these treasures were not for the Channel and its mischances;
                    they were carefully packed away and guarded by the draught-boards and work-boxes and the other
                    contents of our trunk; and I may as well conclude the episode at once, for it is not quite without
                    bearing upon what I am trying to recall. Alas for human expectations! When the happy moment came at
                    last, and we had reached foreign parts, and issued out of the hotel dressed and wreathed and
                    triumphantly splendid, my father said: "My dear children, go  back
                    and put those bonnets away in your box, and don't ever wear them any more! Why, you would be mobbed
                    in these places if you walked out alone with such ribbons!" How the sun shone as he spoke! how my
                    heart sank under the acacia-trees! My sister was eleven years old, and didn't care a bit; but at
                    thirteen and fourteen one's clothes begin to strike root. I felt disgraced, beheaded of my lovely
                    bonnet, utterly crushed, and I turned away to hide my tears.
                Now, there is a passage in the life of Charles Kingsley which, as I believe, concerned this very time
                    and journey; and I am amused, as I remember the tragedy of my bonnet, to think of the different
                    sacrifices which men and women have to pay to popular prejudice, casting their head-gear into the
                    flames just as the people did in the times of Romola. We had started by the packet-boat from London
                    Bridge, as I have said, and immediately we came on board we had been kindly greeted by a family
                    group already established there—an elderly gentleman in clerical dress, and a lady sitting with an
                    umbrella in the drizzle of rain and falling smuts from the funnel. This was the Kingsley family,
                    consisting of the rector of Chelsea and his wife and his two sons (Charles Kingsley was the elder of
                    the two), then going abroad for his health. It will now be seen that my recollections concern more
                    historical I06 CHAPTERS FROM SOME UNWRITTEN MEMOIRS head-dresses
                    than our unlucky bonnets—associations which William Tell himself might not have disdained. Mr.
                    Kingsley and his brother were wearing brown felt hats with very high and pointed crowns, and with
                    very broad brims, of a different shape from my father's commonplace felt. The hats worn by Mr.
                    Kingsley and his brother were more like those well-known brims and peaks which have crowned so many
                    poets' heads since then.
                It was a stormy crossing; the waves were curling unpleasantly round about the boat. I sat by Mrs.
                    Kingsley, miserable, uncomfortable, and watching in a dazed and hypnotized sort of way the rim of
                    Charles Kingsley's wide-awake as it rose and fell against the horrible horizon. He stood before us,
                    holding on to some ropes, and the horizon rose and fell, and the steamer pitched and tossed, and it
                    seemed as if Time stood still. But we reached those farther shores at last, and parted from our
                    companions, and very soon afterwards my father told us with some amusement of the adventure which
                    befell Mr. Charles Kingsley and his brother almost as soon as they landed, and after they had parted
                    from their parents. They were arrested by the police, who did not like the shape of their wide-
                    awakes. I may as well give the story in Mr. Kingsley's own words, which I found in his Life, in an extract  from a letter written immediately
                    after the event to Mrs. Charles Kingsley at home. He says: "Here we are at Treves, having
                        been brought there under arrest with a gendarme from the mayor of Gettesburg, and liberated next
                        morning with much laughter and many curses from the police here. However, we had the pleasure of
                        spending a night in prison among fleas and felons, on the bare floor. The barbarians took our
                        fishing-tackle for Todt-instrumenten, and our
                        wide-awakes for Italian hats, and got it into their addle-pates that we were emissaries of
                        Mazzini...." Perhaps I can find some excuse for the "addle-pates" when I remember that
                    proud and eager head, and that bearing so full of character and en- ergy. One can imagine the author
                    of Alton Locke not finding very great favor with foreign mouchards and gendarmes,
                    and suggesting indefinite terrors and suspicions to their minds.
                Fortunately for the lovers of nature, unfortunately for autobiographers, the dates of the years as
                    they pass are not written up in big letters on the blue vaults overhead, though the seasons
                    themselves are told in turn by the clouds and lights, and by every waving tree and every country
                    glade. And so, though one remembers the aspect of things, the years are apt to get a little shifted
                    at times, and I cannot quite tell whether it was this year or that one following in which we found
                    ourselves still in  glorious summer weather returning home from
                    distant places, and coming back by Germany and by Weimar.
                In common with most children, the stories of our father's youth always delighted and fascinated us,
                    and we had often heard him speak of his own early days at college and in Germany, and of his happy
                    stay at Pumpernickel-Weimar, where he went to court and saw the great Goethe, and was in love with
                    the beautiful Amalia von X. And now coming to Weimar we found ourselves actually alive in his past somehow, almost living it alongside with him, just like Gogo in Mr. Du
                    Maurier's story. I suddenly find myself walking up the centre of an empty shady street, and my
                    father is pointing to a row of shutters on the first floor of a large and comfortable-looking house.
                    "That is where Frau von X. used to live," he said. "How kind she was to us, and what a pretty girl
                    Amalia was!" And then, a little farther on, we passed the house in the sunshine of a plaz in which he told us he himself had lodged with a friend;
                    and then we came to the palace, with the soldiers and sentries looking like toys wound up from the
                    Burlington Arcade, and going backward and forward with their spikes in front of their own striped
                    boxes; and we saw the acacia-trees with their cropped heads, and the iron gates; and we went across
                    the court-yard into the palace and were  shown the ball-room and
                    the smaller saloons, and we stood on the shining floors and beheld the classic spot where for the
                    first and only time in all his life, I believe, my father had invited the lovely Amalia to waltz.
                    And then, coming away all absorbed and delighted with our experiences in living backward, my father
                    suddenly said, "I wonder if old Weissenborne is still alive? He used to teach me German." And lo! as
                    he spoke, a tall, thin old man, in a broad-brimmed straw hat, with a beautiful Pomeranian poodle
                    running before him, came stalking along with a newspaper under his arm. "Good gracious, that looks
                    like—yes, that is Dr. Weissenborne. He is hardly changed a bit," said my father,
                    stopping short for a moment, and then he, too, stepped forward quickly with an outstretched hand,
                    and the old man in turn stopped, stared, frowned. "I am Thackeray, my name is Thackeray," said my
                    father, eagerly and shyly as was his way; and after another stare from the doctor, suddenly came a
                    friendly lighting up and exclaiming and welcoming and hand-shaking and laughing, while the pretty
                    white dog leaped up and down, as much interested as we were in the meeting.
                "You have grown so gray I did not know you at first," said the doctor in English. And my father
                    laughed and said he was a great deal grayer now than the doctor himself; then he introduced us to
                         the old man, who shook us gravely by the finger-tips with a
                    certain austere friendliness, and once more he turned again with a happy, kind, grim face to my
                    father. Yes, he had followed his career with interest; he had heard of him from this man and that
                    man; he had read one of his books-=not all. Why had he never sent any, why had he never come back
                    before? "You must bring your misses and all come and breakfast at my lodging," said Dr.
                    Weissenborne.
                "And is this your old dog?" my father asked, after accepting the doctor's invitation. Dr.
                    Weissenborne shook his head. Alas! the old dog was no more; he died two years before. Meanwhile the
                    young dog was very much there, frisking and careering in cheerful circles round about us. The doctor
                    and his dog had just been starting for their daily walk in the woods when they met us, and they now
                    invited us to accompany them. We called at the lodging by the way to announce our return to
                    breakfast, and then started off together for the park. The park (I am writing of years and years
                    ago) was a bright, green little wood, with leaves and twigs and cheerful lights, with small trees
                    not very thickly planted on the steep slopes, with many narrow paths wandering into green depths,
                    and with seats erected at intervals along the way. On one of these seats the old professor showed us
                    an  inscription cut deep into the wood with a knife, "Doctor W. and his dog." Who had carved it? He did not know. But besides this inscription,
                    on every one of the benches where Goethe used to rest, and on every tree which used to shade his
                    head, was written another inscription, invisible indeed, and yet which we seemed to read all along
                    the way —"Here Goethe's life was spent; here he walked, here he rested; his feet have passed to and
                    fro along this narrow pathway. It leads to his garden- house."
                It was lovely summer weather, as I have said, that weather which used to be so common when one was
                    young, and which I dare say our children still discover now, though we cannot always enjoy it. We
                    came back with our friend the doctor, and break- fasted with him in his small apartment, in a room
                    full of books, at a tiny table drawn to an open window; then after breakfast we sat in the
                    professor's garden among the nasturtiums. My sister and I were given books to read; they were
                    translations for the use of students, I remember; and the old friends smoked together and talked
                    over a hundred things. Amalia was married and had several children; she was away. Madame von Goethe
                    was still in Weimar with her sons, and Fraulein von Pogwishe, her sister, was also there. "They
                    would be delighted to see you again," said the professor.  "We
                    will go together, and leave the young misses here till our return." But not so; our father declared
                    we also must be allowed to come. My recollections (according to the wont of such provoking things)
                    here begin to fail me, and in the one particular which is of any interest; for though we visited
                    Goethe's old house, I can scarcely remember it at all, only that the doctor said Madame von Goethe
                    had moved after Goethe's death. She lived in a handsome house in the town, with a fine staircase
                    running up between straight walls, and leading into a sort of open hall, where, amid a good deal of
                    marble and stateliness, stood two little unpretending ladies by a big round table piled with many
                    books and papers. The ladies were Madame von Goethe and her sister. Dr. Weissenborne went first and
                    announced an old friend, and then ensued more welcomings and friendly exclamations and quick
                    recognitions on both sides, benevolently su- perintended by our Virgil. "And are you both as fond of
                    reading novels as ever?" my father asked. The ladies laughed; they said "Yes, indeed," and pointed
                    to a boxful of books which had just arrived, with several English novels among them, which they had
                    been unpacking as we came in. Then the sons of the house were sent for—kind and friendly and
                    unassuming young men, walking in, and as much interested and pleased to witness their parent's  pleasure as we were; not handsome, with nothing of their
                    grandfather's noble aspect (as one sees it depicted), but with most charming and courteous ways. One
                    was a painter, the mother told us, the other a musician. And while my father talked to the elder
                    ladies, the young men took us younger ones in hand. They offered to show us the celebrated
                    garden-house, and asked us to drink tea there next day. And so it happened that once more we found
                    ourselves being conducted through the little shady wood. But to be walking there with Goethe's
                    family, with his grandsons and their mother, the Ottilie who had held the dying poet's hand to the
                    last; to be going to his favorite resort where so much of his time was spent; to hear him so
                    familiarly quoted and spoken of, was something like hearing a distant echo of the great voice
                    itself; something like seeing the skirts of his dressing-gown just waving before us. And at the age
                    I was then impressions are so vivid that I have always all my life had a vague feeling of having
                    been in Goethe's presence. We seemed to find something of it every- where, most of all in the little
                    garden-house, in the bare and simple room where he used to write. One of the kind young men went to
                    the window and showed us something on the pane. What it was I know not clearly, but I think it was
                    his name written with a diamond; and finally, in the garden,  at a
                    wooden table, among trees and dancing shadows, we drank our tea, and I remember Wolfgang von Goethe
                    handing a teacup, and the look of it, and suddenly the whole thing vanishes. . . . There was a
                    certain simple dignity and hospitality in it all which seems to belong to all the traditions of
                    hospitable Weimar, and my father's pleasure and happy emotion gave a value and importance to every
                    tiny detail of that short but happy time. Even the people at the inn remembered him, and came out to
                    greet him; but they sent in such an enormous bill as we were departing on the evening of the second
                    day that he exclaimed in dismay to the waiter, "So much for sentimental recollections! Tell the host
                    I shall never be able to afford to come back to Weimar again."
                The waiter stared; I wonder if he delivered the message. 'The hotel-bill I have just mentioned was a
                    real disappointment to my father, and, alas for disillusions! another more serious shock, a meeting
                    which was no meeting, somewhat dashed the remembrance of Amalia von X.
                It happened at Venice, a year or two after our visit to Weimar. We were breakfasting at a long table
                    where a fat lady also sat a little way off, with a pale fat little boy beside her. She was stout;
                    she was dressed in light green; she was silent; she was eating an egg. The sala of
                    the great marble hotel  was shaded from the blaze of sunshine, but
                    stray gleams shot across the dim hall, falling on the palms and the orange-trees beyond the lady,
                    who gravely shifted her place as the sunlight dazzled her. Our own meal was also spread, and my
                    sister and I were only waiting for my father to begin. He came in presently, saying he had been
                    looking at the guest-book in the outer hall, and he had seen a name which had interested him very
                    much. "Frau von Z. Geboren von X. It must be Amalia! She must be here—in the
                    hotel," he said; and as he spoke he asked a waiter whether Madame von Z. was still in the hotel. "I
                    believe that is Madame von Z.," said the waiter, pointing to the fat lady. The lady looked up and
                    then went on with her egg, and my poor father turned away, saying in a low, overwhelmed voice, "
                    That Amalia! That cannot be Amalia." I could not understand his silence, his discomposure. "Aren't
                    you going to speak to her? Oh, please do go and speak to her!" we both cried. "Do make sure if it is
                    Amalia." But he shook his head. " I can't," he said; " I had rather not." Amalia meanwhile, having
                    finished her egg, rose deliberately, put down her napkin and walked away, followed by her little
                    boy.
                Things don't happen altogether at the same time; they don't quite begin or end all at once. Once more
                    I heard of Amalia long years afterwards,  when by a happy
                    hospitable chance I met Dr. Norman MacLeod at the house of my old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Cunliffe. I
                    was looking at him, and thinking that in some indefinable way he put me in mind of the past, when he
                    suddenly asked me if I knew that he and my father had been together as boys at Weimar, learning
                    German from the same professor, and both in love with the same beautiful girl. "What, Amalia? Dr.
                    Weissenborne?" I cried. "Dear me! do you know about Amalia ?" said Dr. MacLeod, "and do you know
                    about old Weissenborne? I thought I was the only person left to remember them. We all learned from
                    Weissenborne, we were all in love with Amalia, every one of us, your father too! What happy days
                    those were!" And then he went on to tell us that years and years afterwards, when they met again on
                    the occasion of one of the lecturing tours in Scotland, he, Dr. MacLeod, and the rest of the
                    notabilities were all assembled to receive the lecturer on the platform, and as my father came by
                    carrying his papers and advancing to take his place at the reading-desk, he recognized Dr. MacLeod
                    as he passed, and in the face of all the audience he bent forward and said, gravely, without
                    stopping one moment on his way, Ich liebe Amalia doch,"
                    and so went on to deliver his lecture.
                Dr. MacLeod also met Amalia once again in  after-life, and to him,
                    too, had come a disillusion. He, too, had been overwhelmed and shocked by the change of years. Poor
                    lady! I can't help being very sorry for her; to have had two such friends and not to have kept them
                    seems a cruel fate. To have been so charming, that her present seemed but a calumny upon the past.
                    It is like the story of the woman who flew into a fury with her own portrait, young, smiling, and
                    triumphant, and who destroyed it, so as not to be taunted by the past any more. Let us hope that
                    Frau von Z. was never conscious of her loss, never looked upon this picture and on that.
                Since writing all this, I have found an old letter from my father to his mother, and written from
                    Weimar. It is dated 29th September, 1830. "There is a capital library here," he says, "which is open
                    to me, an excellent theatre which costs a shilling a night, and a charming petite société which costs nothing. Goethe, the great lion of Weimar, I have
                    not yet seen, but his daughter-in-law has promised to introduce me." Then he describes going to
                    court: "I have had to air my legs in black breeches and to sport a black coat, black waistcoat, and
                    cock-hat, looking something like a cross between a footman and a Methodist parson.
                "We have had three operas," he goes on; "'Me-  dea' and the 'Barber
                    of Seville' and the 'Flauto Magico.' Hiimmel conducts the orchestra [then comes a sketch of Hiimmel
                    with huge shirt-collar]. The orchestra is excellent, but the singers are not first-rate." ... Amalia
                    must have had rivals, even in those early days, for this same letter goes on to say: " I have fallen
                    in love with the Princess of Weimar, who is unluckily married to Prince Charles of Prussia. I must
                    get over this unfortunate passion, which will otherwise, I fear, bring me to an untimely end. There
                    are several very charming young persons of the female sex here; Miss Amalia von X. and ditto von
                    Pappenheim are the evening belles."
                "Of winter nights," says my father in the other well-known letter which is printed in Lewes's
                        Life of Goethe, "we used to charter sedan-chairs in which we were carried through
                    the snow to those pleasant court entertainments. I for my part was fortunate enough to purchase
                    Schiller's sword, which formed a part of my court costume and still hangs in my study,* and puts me in mind of days

                * So he wrote in 1855, but a few years
                    after he gave the sword to a friend for whom he had a great affection, who carried it back to
                    America as a token" of good-will and sympathy. This friend was Bayard Taylor, a true knight, and
                    worthy to carry the honorable bloodless weapon.

            


            

            
                VIA WILLIS'S ROOMS TO CHELSEA



                
                

                VIII
                ONE day Jackson drove the blue fly up to the door, and my father, looking rather smart, with a packet
                    of papers in his hand, and my grandmother, who had come over from Paris, and my sister and I all got
                    in, and we drove away, a nervous company, to Willis's Rooms to hear the first of the lectures upon
                    the English Humorists. My father was of course very nervous, but as we drove along he made little
                    jokes to reassure us all; then together we mounted the carpeted staircase leading to the long, empty
                    room, and after a time he left us. I have no very pleasant recollection of that particular half-hour
                    of my life. I remember the unoccupied chairs, and people coming in rather subdued, as if into a
                    church. Many of the windows were open, the sky looked very blue over the roof-tops, our hearts were
                    thumping, the carriages outside came driving up with distant rumbling sounds growing louder and
                    louder; and I remember wondering at the time whether I should mind very much if the day of judgment
                    could suddenly come upon us and thus put an end to this terrible 
                    ordeal, which desperate imagination was a real consolation to me at the moment. It is a happiness to
                    realize now who it was who came to my dear father's help when all our emotion and sympathy was, I
                    fear, only a hinderance. I cannot help giving the passage out of Mrs. Kemble's records concerning
                    my father's lectures, although it may have already been quoted by others.

                
                "I met Thackeray at Miss Perry's at dinner, a few days before he began his course of lectures on
                        the English Humorists, and he asked me to come and hear him, and told me he was so nervous about
                        it that he was afraid he should break down....
                    "He was to lecture at Willis's Rooms, in the same room where I read; and going thither before the
                        time for his beginning I found him standing like a forlorn, disconsolate giant in the middle of
                        the room, gazing about him. 'O Lord!' he exclaimed, as he shook hands with me,'I'm sick at my
                        stomach with fright!' I spoke some words of encouragement to him and was going away, but he held
                        my hand like a scared child, crying, 'Oh, don't leave me!' 'But,' said I, 'Thackeray, you
                        mustn't stand here. Your audience are beginning to come in'; and I drew him from the middle of
                        the chairs and benches, which were beginning to be occupied, into the retiring-room adjoining
                        the lecture-room, my own reading having made me perfectly familiar with both. 'Oh,' he said, 'if
                        I could only get at that confounded thing [his lecture], to have a last look at it!' 'Where is
                        it?' said I. 'Oh, in the next room on the reading-desk.' 'Well,' said I, 'if you don't like to
                        go in 
                        
                         
                
                
                and get it, I'll fetch it for you.' And remembering
                        well the position of my reading-table, which had been close to the door of the retiring-room, I
                        darted in, hoping to snatch the manuscript without attracting the attention of the audience,
                        with which the room was already nearly full. I had been used to deliver my readings seated at a
                        very low table, but my friend Thackeray gave his lectures standing, and had had a reading-desk
                        placed on the platform, adapted to his own very tall stature, so that when I came to get his
                        manuscript it was almost above my head. Though rather disconcerted, I was determined not to go
                        back with- out it, and so made a half-jump and a clutch at the book, when every leaf of it (they
                        were not fastened together) came fluttering separately down about me. I hardly know what I did,
                        but I think I must have gone nearly on all-fours in my agony to gather up the scattered leaves,
                        and retreating with them, held them out in dismay to poor Thackeray, crying, 'Oh, look, look
                        what a dreadful thing I have done!' 'My dear soul,' said he, 'you couldn't have done better for
                        me. I have just a quarter of an hour to wait here, and it will take me about that to page this
                        again, and it's the best thing in the world that could have happened.'"
                
                And so while my father was paging the manuscript, and we were waiting outside, the people kept coming
                    in more and more quickly and filling up the places in front of us, behind us, all round us, settling
                    down, unfastening their wraps, nodding to each other. I was gazing at a lady who had taken off her
                    bonnet and sat in a little Quaker cap just in front of me, when suddenly, there stood my  father facing this great roomful. Though we had been waiting all the
                    time, he came sooner than we expected. His voice sounded strained and odd for an instant, and I
                    didn't recognize it. "In treating of the English humorists of the eighteenth century, it is of
                        the men rather than of their works," so the strange voice began, and then almost immediately
                    it softened and deepened and became his own, and at the same time as he stood there I realized that
                    he looked just like himself: there was his waist- coat and his watch-chain, and my vague youthful
                    spinnings and chokings and confusions began to subside.
                I was now glad the day of judgment hadn't come. I don't remember taking in one word after the first
                    sentence, but sat staring and taking breath, and realizing somehow that all was going well. Among
                    other things I did notice, and do remember, the proud and happy look of light and relief in my
                    grandmother's face, and her beautiful gray eyes all shining, when the people applauded, and the
                    lecture was all over just as unexpectedly as it had begun, and the lady in the Quaker cap tied her
                    bonnet on again, and somebody said she was the Duchess of Sutherland, and the people were all
                    talking and crowding up and shaking hands with the lecturer. Then came the happy drive home; Jackson
                    made the horse gallop, and my father  laughed and made real jokes
                    without any effort, and we laughed and enjoyed every jolt and turning on the way home this time.
                These lectures gradually became a part of our every-day life, just as much as the books and the
                    articles my father used to write, and the little printers' boys waiting and swinging their legs in
                    the hall. Young men's institutes and provincial agencies used to invite him to the north and to the
                    south. He came and he went; sometimes he read in the suburbs or at friends' houses, at Mrs.
                    Procter's and elsewhere; once he read at home, at the request, I think, of his well-loved Mrs.
                    Elliot and Miss Perry. Sometimes he took us with him when he was not going very far from home. To
                    this day I can enjoy that glorious summer's day we first spent at Oxford among the gardens and the
                    gables, and where, with our host St. John Thackeray, we stood in the street outside watching the
                    backs of the audience pressing in to hear the lecture.
                One year my father told us that he was going away—he was going to America to give his lectures there;
                    he was going as soon as he had finished the book upon which he was engaged, and we were to spend the
                    winter in Paris during his absence. "I must replace my patrimony," he said, "and make some
                        provision for your mother and for you, and you must go to my mother's and spend  the winter with her; you must work as hard as you can while I am
                        away, and consider yourselves at college in a fashion, and learn French and a little music to
                        play me to sleep of an evening when I come home." Alas! we neither of us could ever make
                    enough music to send him to sleep, though I have often sent him out of the room. My hair used to
                    stand on end, my fingers used to turn to stone when I tried to play to him; even the things I liked
                    best seemed to go off the rails in some general catastrophe.
                America was farther away then than it is now, when a thousand Columbuses or Columbi (whatever the
                    plural may be) cross the ocean week by week with a parting nod and a return ticket. That whole
                    summer of 1854 seemed darkened by the coming separation. It was a long and burning Summer; even the
                    shadows seemed burned up, and so were,the gardens at the back of the houses, and the brown turf and
                    the avenues of Kensington Gardens, those gardens where that strange mist which is not quite fog nor
                    quite real nor even a fancy, but which has always seemed to me to be the very spirit of London
                    itself, comes rising along the straight and formal distances. My father was hard at' work finishing
                    a book which some people still say is the best of all his books. People read it then, when it came
                    out, and read it still and re-  read it. He used to write in his
                    study with the vine shading the two windows, and we used to do our lessons, or sit sewing and
                    reading in the front room with the bow-window to the street; and one day, as we were there with our
                    governess, my father came in in great excitement. "There's a young fellow just come," said
                    he; "he has brought a thousand pounds in his pocket; he has made me an offer for my book; it's
                        the most spirited, handsome offer; I scarcely like to take him at his word; he's hardly more
                        than a boy; his name is George Smith; he is waiting there now, and I must go back;" and
                    then, after walking once up and down the room, my father went away, and for the first time, a
                    lifetime ago, I heard the name of this good friend-to-be.
                A great many arrangements were made for the coming year's absence; there was a talk of letting the
                    house, but it was only shut up with a couple of old servants to keep. it. My father's servants
                    rarely left him. His old publishers gave him a silver punch-bowl, and his new publisher (I am
                    writing of nearly half a century ago) gave him a beautiful despatch-box; and this same good friend
                    gave Sto my sister and to me a noble drawing of our father's head, by Samuel Lawrence, to look at
                    while he was away. Then we all set off and went abroad to rejoin our grandmother and grandfather,
                    and for  a little while we travelled together, and then my father
                    had to leave us. I can see him now as he stood beside a wooden column at some railway
                    junction—Olten, I think it was—and he stooped to kiss us; and then he put us into our railway
                    carriage, and we were carried off with heavy hearts while he stood looking at us fixedly, tall and
                    straight, and the train scudded off. Somehow we never got used to these partings, though our father
                    returned each time safe and in good spirits, and pleased with his journey and its results.
                People can still walk through Kensington Square and look up at the house, yet standing with its
                    windows facing westward, in which Rachel Castlewood once dwelt, and where Colonel Esmond came, and
                    where the Pretender also came in his blond periwig and blue ribbon, and threw away—so Colonel Esmond
                    tells us—a kingdom for a passing fancy. In so looking they may well people the past with figures all
                    touched with its color, and yet so strangely living still that as one reads one seems to have known
                    them all. But any one who may try to follow the familiar shades out of the precincts of Kensington
                    Square and beyond Young Street, where the porters with the chairs must have passed, into the
                    high-road which leads to London; must be imaginative indeed to conjure up their remembrance any
                    more. The King's Arms, where the conspirators  were assembled when
                    King George was proclaimed, has vanished out of sight; its quiet gardens are piled up high with
                    bricks and stories rearing like a new Babel to the sky. There are cities spreading where the
                    market-gardens were flowering but yesterday, tram-cars passing, engines whistling. I can scarcely
                    imagine my father himself writing Esmond in such a chaos. Novels of the future will
                    take place by telegram, in flats, in lifts, in metropolitan railways—they will whirl, Ixion-like, on
                    perpetual bicycles and wheels. It is difficult to imagine devotion such as Esmond's continuing in
                    this present sequence of events; it seems as if new impulses, both physical and mental, must arise
                    in such a multiplicity of impressions; as if a new race must people the earth. Beatrice, indeed,
                    might belong to these latter times; but Esmond and Lady Castlewood would seem strangely out of
                    place.*
                
                * 
                    Some one has given me a map of Kensington in 1764, by which
                    one can see what lanes and green fields and gardens still lay be-
                    tween the village and London, more than a mile away. Nursery
                    gardens, wide open spaces, brick kilns on Campden Hill, and gravel
                    pits. In the midst of green fields stood three or four houses called
                    "Bays Watering." The Serpentine was called the New River,
                    Kensington Gore consisted of five houses. Hogmore Lane and
                    Lobb's Field ran from the high-road towards Chelsea. Though I
                    have the map before me, I can hardly feel that it was ever true, and
                    yet I remember Hogmore Lane. And there was Love Lane beyond,
                    along which we used to go for straggling walks with our playfellows
                    the.Coles, who lived in the Terrace close by. We used to start about
                    six o'clock on summer mornings, and come home with 'branches of
                    hawthorn flowers to decorate our school-room and to remind our-
                    selves that it was May-time. 
                
               


                
                There is one part of London which, however, still seems to me little changed since then, and that is
                    Cheyne Row, which used to be at the end of all these hawthorn lanes, by the onward course of fashion
                    and events; and that is Chelsea, whither we used often to be sent as children, crossing the lanes
                    and fields, and coming by a pond and a narrow street called Paradise Row into the King's Road, and
                    then after a few minutes' walk to Cheyne Row, where Mr. and Mrs. Carlyle lived to the end of their
                    lives, and which seems to all of us made living still by their dead footsteps.
                The old house in Cheyne Row is one of the first things I can remember when we came to London. Its
                    stillness, its dimness, its panelled walls, its carved balusters, and the quiet garden behind, where
                    at intervals in the brickwork lay the tobacco-pipes all ready for use: little Nero, the doggie, in
                    his little coat, barking and trembling in every limb—it all comes before one with so much clearness
                    that, although so much has been said about that home, I cannot omit all mention of a place which
                    made so vivid a part of my early life.
                In the dining-room stood that enchanting screen covered with pictures, drawings, prints, fashions,
                    portraits without end, which my father liked so much; up-stairs was the panelled drawing-room with
                    its windows to the Row, and the portrait of  Oliver Cromwell
                    hanging opposite the windows. But best of all, there was Mrs. Carlyle herself, a living picture:
                    Gainsborough should have been alive to paint her: slim, bright, upright, in her place. She looked
                    like one of the grand ladies our father used sometimes to take us to call upon. She used to be
                    handsomely dressed in velvet and point lace. She sat there at leisure and prepared for conversation.
                    She was not familiar, but cordial, dignified, interested in everything as she sat installed in her
                    corner of the sofa by one of the little tables covered with knick-knacks of silver and
                    mother-of-pearl.
                Almost the first time we ever went to see her we had walked to Chelsea through the snow, and across
                    those lanes which have now become South Kensington, and when we arrived, numb and chilled and tired,
                    we found in the dining-room below, standing before the fire, two delicious hot cups of chocolate
                    already prepared for us, with saucers placed upon the top. "I thought ye would be
                        frozen," said she, and the hot chocolate became a sort of institution. Again and again
                    she has sat by, benevolent and spirited, superintending our wintry feasts, inviting our confidences,
                    confiding in us to a certain degree.
                She used to tell us many of the stories which have since come into print. She, was never weary of
                    discoursing of "Carlyle," of his genius, his dyspepsia,  of
                    quoting his sayings. "If you wish for a quiet life," she used to say, "never you
                        marry a dyspeptic man of genius." I remember she used to tell us, when he first grew a
                    beard, how all the time he had saved by ceasing to shave he spent wandering about the house, and
                    bemoaning that which was amiss in the universe. As children we did not have much of Carlyle's
                    company; if he came in and sat down in the arm-chair, which was his on the opposite side to the
                    sofa, we immediately went away; but the sense of his presence overhead in the study distinctly added
                    to our enjoyment so long as he remained up-stairs. Mrs. Carlyle used to tell us of her early life,
                    of her love for study. Many of her admonitions and friendly warnings have remained in my memory.
                    Once, looking expressively at me with her dark eyes, she began to speak of self-control. "We
                        have all," she said, "a great deal more power over our minds than it is at all the
                        fashion to allow, and an infinity of resource and ability to use it. There was a time in my own
                        life," she said, "when I felt that unless I strove against the feeling with all my
                        strength and might. I should be crazed outright. I passed through that time safely; I was able
                        to fight it out, and not to let myself go. People can help themselves, that I
                        am convinced of, and that fact is not nearly enough dwelt upon."


                

                One day we went there" we were no longer children. I was a grown young lady, keeping a diary at the
                    time, in which I find the following record of a brown-paper parcel:—"To Mrs. Carlyle's, where we
                    found Lady Stanley of Alderley just leaving the room; then Mrs. Carlyle, taking up the talk again,
                    immediately began speaking enthusiastically about Adam Bede, which had just come out.
                    She had written to the author, she said; she had received grateful messages from her in reply. She
                    said that Mr. Carlyle quite declined reading the book, and when she expressed a hope that it might
                    be sent to her, 'What should she send it to you for?' he said.
                        'Why shouldn't she send it?' she answered; 'she sent me the first.'
                    'You are just like all weemen,' said he. (Mrs. Carlyle always says weemen.) 'You
                        are always forming unreasonable expectations.'"
                We were going away, for we heard a ring at the bell, which seemed to betoken fresh visitors. Then the
                    door opened, and in came, not visitors, but Charly the maid, carrying an unmistakable publisher's
                    brown-paper parcel. Mr. Carlyle, who had followed her in, came and sat down upon the sofa. Mrs.
                    Carlyle exclaimed and started forward. We opened our eyes in delighted partisanship; the string was
                    cut, and there, sure enough, were the three orange volumes of Adam Bede, sent with
                    the author's compliments.

                

                Here are two notes addressed to my father in the philosopher's handsome cramped handwriting:

                
                    
                        

                            "Chelsea, 24th May, 1860.
                            "Alas, dear Thackeray, I durst as soon undertake to dance a hornpipe on the top of Bond
                                Steeple as to eat a white- bait dinner in my present low and lost state ! Never in my
                                life was I at such a pass. You are a good brother man; and I am grateful. Pray for me,
                                and still hope for me if you can.
                            "Yours ever,
                                "T. CARLYLE."
                        
                    
                

                
                    
                        
                            "Chelsea, 26th May, 1860.
                                "DEAR THACKERAY,—
                            The thing I contemplated just now (or the nucleus of the thing) was a letter concerning
                                that anecdote about Fontenoy, 'Faites feu,
                                Messieurs,' on the part of the English, with answer from the Gardes
                                    Francaises, 'Begin you, gentlemen; wouldn't do such a thing for the world!' My
                                letter is from Lord Charles Hay, Captain of the Scots Fusiliers, main actor in the
                                business; it was sent me last year by Lord Gifford; and I could have made a little story
                                out of it which would have been worth publishing.
                            "But on applying to Lord Gifford, he (what he is himself, I believe, truly sorry for)
                                cannot at present give me permission. So the poor little enterprise falls to nothing
                                again; and I may be said to be in a state of ill-luck just now!
                            "If I ever in the end of this book have life left, you shall have plenty of things. But
                                for the time being I can only answer de profundis to the above effect.
                                "Fair wind and full sea to you in this hitherto so successful  voyage, for which the omens certainly are on all sides good.
                                Your people do not send me a copy (since No. I.); but we always draw our purse upon it
                                to the small extent requisite.
                            "Yours every truly,
                                "T. CARLYLE."
                        
                    
                
                These notes were written when the Cornhill was first started, an eventful time in our
                    lives.
                Some voices are those which speak to us; others speak for us. The first belong to the immortals who
                    dwell apart somewhere beyond the boundaries of common life and moodcYs, and it is, perhaps, for that
                    very reason they are best able to give utterance to oracles; the others belong to humanity itself,
                    and among these latter voices, who would not reckon Carlyle's?
                "I wish you could get Carlyle's miscellaneous criticisms," wrote my father in 1839, in a
                    letter to his mother. "I have read a little in the book. A nobler one does not live in our
                        language, I am sure, and one that will have such an effect on our ways of thought and
                        prejudices. Criticism has been a party matter with us till now, and literature is a poor
                        political lacquey. Please God we shall begin, ere long, to love art for art's sake. It is
                        Carlyle who has worked more than any other to give it its independence."
                I went out with my father one evening in the  winter of 1863, and
                    as we were driving along in the dusk by the Serpentine we passed Carlyle walking across the park,
                    and my father, seeing him, leaned forward and waved his hands. "A great, benevolent shower of
                        salutations," Carlyle called it, when he spoke in after-days of this last meeting.
                After Mrs. Carlyle's death, it was Carlyle that we used to go and see in the old drawing-room, which
                    he took to inhabiting altogether. It was no surprise, when his history was told, to realize that he
                    had been sometimes cross and often contrary; but that passion of tender love and remorse and
                    devotion came as a revelation all the more moving that one had almost guessed it at times. It was
                    when my own father died that something was revealed to us of his deep and tender feeling.
                After Carlyle himself was laid to rest I went for the last time to look at the house which I
                    remembered all my life; my little boy was with me, and he began crowing and pointing to the old
                    screen full of pictures, some of which his grandfather had drawn. It still stood in its place in the
                    dining-room. From behind the old screen came Mrs. Alexander Carlyle, carrying her little Tom, who,
                    seeing a fellow-baby, uttered three deep notes, and in them was some strange echo of the familiar
                    voice that had filled the house so long, and reached how far beyond its walls!


                

                P.S.—It will be remembered in Lewes's Life of Goethe there is an account of a birthday
                    gift sent by fifteen Englishmen to Goethe. "The young Carlyle, who had been cheered through his
                        struggling sadness and strengthened for the part he was to play in life by the beauty and the
                        wisdom which Goethe had revealed to him, conceived the idea that it would be a pleasant and a
                        fitting thing if some of the few admirers of Goethe in England forwarded to Weimar a trifling
                        token of their admiration. On reaching home Mrs. Carlyle at once sketched the design of a seal
                        to be engraved, the Serpent of Eternity encircling a star, with the words. 'Ohne Rast, ohne
                        Hast' (Unhasting, un- resting), in allusion to the well-known verses, "'Like a star
                            unhasting, unresting be each one fulfilling his God- given hest.'" It was the
                    remembrance of this little incident which suggested long years afterwards another small presentation
                    at a time when Carlyle was living in Cheyne Row with his niece. There had been some alarm of
                    house-breakers in Chelsea, which sacrilegious house-breakers, not content with robbing ordinary
                    people, broke into Mr. Carlyle's house and ran away again without carrying off anything more
                    valuable than a dining-room clock. It was, as I say, the remembrance of the little incident of the
                         seal which suggested to some one the idea of replacing the
                    stolen clock, and about fifteen of Carlyle's friends and admirers subscribed to purchase one, a
                    small sign of their respect and good-will. Among the subscribers were his old friends Lady Stanley
                    of Alderley, Lady Airlie, Mrs. Oliphant, and Mr. Lecky. Lady Stanley was asked to be spokeswoman on
                    the occasion, and to present the little gift. It was Carlyle's birthday, and a dismal winter's
                    day;* the streets were shrouded in greenish vapors, and the houses looked no less
                    dreary with- in than the streets through which we had come. Somewhat chilled and depressed, we all
                    assembled in Lady Stanley's great drawing-room in Dover Street, where the fog had also penetrated,
                    and presently from the farther end of the room, advancing through the darkness, came Carlyle. There
                    was a moment's pause. No one moved. He stood in the middle of the room without speaking. No doubt
                    the philosopher as well as his disciples felt the influence of the atmosphere. Lady Stanley went to
                    meet him. "Here is a little birthday present we want you to accept from us all, Mr. Carlyle,"
                    said she, quickly pushing up before him a small table upon which stood the clock ticking all ready
                    for his acceptance. Then came another silence, broken by a knell, sadly sounding in our ears.
                        "Eh, what have I 
                            
                            * 4th December, 1794.
                            
                         got to do with Time any more," he said. It was a
                    melancholy moment. Nobody could speak. The unfortunate promoter of the scheme felt her heart sinking
                    into her shoes. Had she but had the wit to answer him cheerfully, to assure him that any- how Time
                    had a great deal to do with him, the little ceremony might have been less of a fiasco than it
                    assuredly was; and yet I think afterwards the old man must have been pleased, and liked to think he
                    was remembered. Few people could value sincerity as he did, or better know the worth of love and
                    affectionate respect.
            

            
            

            
                IN VILLEGGIATURA


                
                
                IX
                 HAVE already mentioned my father's tour in America when he went to deliver those lectures which had
                    been so successful in England. Saying good-bye is the price one has to pay even for a prosperous and
                    fortunate expedition. I can still see him as he stood on the platform of the railway station at
                    Olten, in Belgium, where we parted. He stood by a slender iron column, looking very tall and very
                    sad as he watched the train go off in which we were bound for Switzerland with our grandparents. He
                    himself was returning to England through Germany. He had to correct the proofs of
                        Esmond before he left, and to give some more lectures in the provinces, and to
                    wind up things at home.
                My grandmother was very miserable and nervous. She had brought him a life-belt for his cabin as a
                    farewell gift, and thoroughly frightened herself by so doing. We were too young to be nervous, but
                    we were very unhappy. Our dear old grandfather did his best to cheer us all, and after we had parted
                    from my father he made out all sorts of pleasant  little plans,
                    and ordered various special compotes and tartlets at the
                    hotels suited to our youthful appetites. He took us for walks and to visit museums, and he always
                    consulted any fellow-travellers and sight-seers as to our next movements. Indeed, our journeyings
                    greatly depended upon these chance encounters and recommendations. The first night, when we put up
                    at some little inn, the waiter brought us the traveller's book to write our names in; I forget all
                    about the place, but I can see the book and the table-spread, and what I do most vividly remember is
                    our despair when, instead of the neat Mr. Thackeray and family, to which we were
                    used, we read the following announcement in our grandfather's handwriting: Schmid Major, en retraite, avec Madame sa épouse et ses deux Mademoiselles."
                    My grandmother, sad as she was, began to laugh, and we all entreated our dear old major to make some
                    changes in the inscription, but he stuck to it, and would not alter a single letter.
                We reached Geneva after some days. There at the poste
                        restante we found various letters waiting, and news of our father. "As for the arrival
                    at this place [he was writing from Salzburg], it's like entering into fairyland, it is so beautiful;
                    and the Tyrol is delightful too, but not like our Switzerland. And one Swiss cottage is uncommonly
                    like another, and with five or six days of rocks and pinewoods I 
                    feel somehow as if I've had enough!" Then a little further on he writes: "Give my love to my dearest
                    mother, and have her to understand that this blue devil of which I complain is only an artistic blue
                    devil, and that he comes always before I get to work, and that there is no other reason....There is
                    bad music here, for a wonder, at the beer garden; though I amused myself very well there yesterday,
                    opposite a pretty little child of three years, who ate three sausages with her fingers and without
                    any bread, all except a little bit which she gave out of her mouth to her mamma. And I went up a
                    hill to a Capuchin convent and saw some of my favorite dirty scoundrels with beards, and the town
                    clinks all over with Austrian sabres."
                I never think of Geneva and of those particular days without a curious feeling of terror and emotion.
                    We were in a tall hotel, with windows looking towards the lake, and it was lovely summer weather,
                    but it was a dismal time. My dear grandmother sought for sympathy among the people to whom she was
                    naturally drawn, the masters and teachers belonging to the Protestant Church in Geneva. They were
                    interesting and important personages, who inspired me with a curious mixture of respect and
                    discomfort, and to whom my grandmother had brought various introductions from her friends the French
                    Protestant pasteurs at Paris.


                
                There was a garden to which she took me, not far from our hotel, with beautiful shady trees and
                    spreading grass. In the garden stood a white chapel—clean, light, bare, decorous, with some black
                    and white marble ornamentations. A woman in a black frilled cap showed us to our seats, and there we
                    waited, listening for some time to a clanging bell. Then the service began. Only one or two people
                    came to it, but the place, although to others it might speak of most fervent and passionate emotion,
                    seemed oppressive with chill and silent religion to me. When all was over, my grandmother had some
                    low-voiced conversation with the woman in the black cap, who beckoned to the bell-ringer, and the
                    result of the whispering was that, after a short delay, we were led across the grass and under the
                    trees to a retired part of the garden, where in the shade of some bushes sat an old man of very
                    noble aspect, with long white hair falling on his shoulders. He looked to me like some superior
                    being. Indeed, to my excited imagination it seemed as if I were being brought up to the feet of a
                    prophet, to some inspired person who was sitting there in authority and in judgment on all the rest
                    of the world. This old man was M. César Malan, the head of a section of the Calvinist Church in
                    Geneva, whose name was well known and very widely respected. He had built the chapel in his garden.
                    Not a little to my  consternation, after a few words with my
                    grandmother, he immediately, with the utmost kindness, began asking me questions about myself, about
                    my coivictions, my religious impressions, my hopes, my future aspirations. He was very kind, but
                    even an angel from heaven would be alarming, suddenly appearing to a girl of fifteen with such a
                    catechism. The more kindly he pressed me, the less able I was to answer. Sometimes I said too much,
                    sometimes I was hopelessly silent, and in the midst of a nervous discussion as to the ultimate fate
                    of Judas (I felt somewhat akin to him myself) the scene ended in my bursting into tears of
                    embarrassment and hopeless confusion. I was consoled on our return to the hotel by my grandfather,
                    who was most sympathetic. "Those, my dear child," he said, "who have studied deeply, who are
                        able to read the Scriptures in the original, are far more likely than you or I to be able to
                        judge correctly upon such important subjects, and we had therefore better leave all such
                        speculations entirely to them."
                That next winter, which we spent in Paris, we used to attend the classes of a man even better known
                    than César Malan—Adolphe Monod, who remains to me one of the most striking and noble figures I have
                    ever met; his face, his dark eyes, all spoke as well as his eloquent voice, and, above all, his
                    earnest life and ways. To me he seemed the  St. Paul of my own
                    time; and those classes which cost so many tears, and which gave rise to so much agitated
                    discussion, are still among the most touching and heart-reaching experiences of my life. I can see
                    the girls' faces now, as they listened to their beloved pasteur. Our hearts were in our lessons, as
                    his was in his teaching, undoubtedly; we were allin earnest and ready to follow; only, though I
                    longed to be convinced, I could only admire and love the lesson and the teacher as well. He warned,
                    encouraged, explained in his earnest, gentle voice. "Ah, mes
                            enfants," I can hear him saying, "fuyez, fuyez ce
                            monde!" Fly the world! If ever the world was delightful and full of
                    interest it was then—the daily task, the hour and its incidents eventful and absorbing; if ever our
                    hearts were open to receive, not to reject, it was then. M. Monod himself was no unimportant factor
                    in my world. I once saw Faraday, who reminded me of him. The pasteur had come to see my grandmother on this occasion, and I met him on the
                    staircase; but he passed me by, and did not recognize me out of my place in the second row of
                    chairs, nor did I venture to speak to him. I still remember the strange thrill we felt, and which
                    ran in a whisper along the class, when we heard that Henrietta P. had been refused her first
                    communion for going to a ball within a week of the event. She came no  more to the meetings. The girls sat in their places on rows of straw
                    chairs, and many of the parents accompanied them. Sometimes in a corner by the window holding up a
                    small Bible, in which he followed the references with attention, there sat an oldish gentleman, who
                    was (so we were told) the great prime-minister, M. Guizot.
                My father did not sail for America till the autumn of that year, but we remained on at Paris with our
                    grandparents. The sun streamed into our apartments all day long, for we had windows looking to every
                    side of the compass. When Paris was getting intolerably hot, we started for the country, where my
                    grandfather had taken a country-house on a lease for two or three years, in a village called
                    Mennecy, near Corbeil. Mennecy was a straggling little village among peat fields, crossed by narrow
                    black streams, or canals, of the color of the peat. Growing by the banks were long rows of stumpy
                    willow-trees, cut year by year for the sake of the osiers, which were sold to the basket-makers.
                    Here and there, perhaps at the turn of the stream, some single tree had been allowed to grow to its
                    natural dimensions, forming a sequestered nook where some of us used to bathe on hot summer days.
                    Two young friends of my grandmother's—Laura and Pauline C.—were with us most of the time we were  living in this villeggiatura, and Pauline especially loved the water, and used to come home fresh
                    and smiling and pluming herself after her cool divings. Mennecy was a rural spot among willow-trees,
                    a perfect retreat for hot weather.
                There was an old paved place in the centre of the village, leading to a fine old
                    church well served and well frequented, of which the Sunday bells clanged far across the country. We
                    used to see the congregation assembling in cheerful companies, ar- riving from outlying farms, and
                    greeting each other in the market-place before the mass began; a con- gregation with more of talk
                    and animation than with us, with blue smocks and white linen coiffes, and picturesque country cloaks and sabots. We used somewhat ruefully to wish to follow Pauline and Louise (our cross
                    maid-of-all-work) through the swing-doors behind which the incense was tossing and the organ rolling
                    out its triumphant fugue. A Roman Catholic service seems something of a high festival, coming round
                    Sunday after Sunday, a rite bringing excitement and adoration along with it. Our own village
                    church-bells also ring out, calling to the peaceful congregations; calling us to something more
                    tranquil, more free, and more full of individual feeling—to an aspiration rather than to a rite.
                My grandparents' house had once been a hunting-lodge  belonging to
                    Henry IV., who loved the neighborhood, and frequented Compiègne long years before the President
                    Louis Napoleon, or the Emperor Napoleon III. and his courtiers, and their ladies in
                    hunting-costumes, and with spirited horses and fanfarons,
                    all followed the chase. I don't remember ever seeing any of them, but we had a general impression
                    that those hunting companies were about, and any day a gay procession, not unlike something out of a
                    fairy-tale, might come riding past our old gates. They were old creaking gates, which had once been
                    green, now gray and weather-stained; our high walls, which had once been white, were also green and
                    stained and overgrown by a vine. M. Roche had given us Jocelyn to read about a year
                    before, and I used to think of the description of the curé's home as I stood in the old court-yard at Mennecy, with its well and its
                    vine-clad walls. There was an old well with a wrought-iron top to it and a rope, and there was a
                    vine travelling along the margin and spreading beyond it, along the wrought-iron railing, to the
                    pretty old iron gate dividing the court-yard from the old garden at the back, which, with its
                    dainty, rusty iron scrolls, excluded the cocks and hens that flapped and picketed and strutted all
                    day long in tile front court, and roosted at night in the great empty stables opposite our
                    house.


                

                The hunting-lodge, before it had become our home, had been turned into a farm; the knights and
                    cavaliers had made way for blouses and cow-herds, and the hunters had given up their stalls to heavy
                    cart-horses, though, indeed, there was room to spare for any number of either. But the farmer died
                    in time, and his widow married the milkman, and she let the old place to my grandfather, who had a
                    special purpose in coming to Mennecy.
                A flight of stone steps led from the court-yard to the house, just as one sees in Scotland, which
                    looks so like France in places. Our front windows opened on to a garden, and the passages and the
                    sitting-rooms were panelled in some parts. We could walk all round the drawing-room between the
                    panels and the walls; nor was it dark within the wainscot, for there were two little windows at
                    either end to give light to the spiders and the active mice who chiefly frequented this passage. The
                    floors were all of brick, on which we had laid a carpet, and my grandmother had brought a blue sofa
                    and chairs from Paris, and hired a piano in Corbeil.
                "Quel charmant meuble!" our neighbor the Maire used to
                    say when he came in of an evening, bowing politely to the piano and then to us. Polished rosewood!
                    ivory keys! gilt handles! He was genuine in his enthusiastic admiration. To hear  him one would think there had never been such a piano since the world
                    began. It got very much out of tune, but that did not shake our faith in it. We gave parties on the
                    strength of the charmant meuble. Piano company (so we
                    considered ourselves) was not so very common in the neighborhood. Laura could play (as she still
                    does) to the delight of her listeners; Pauline had a very sweet mezzo soprano voice, and used to sing to the piano and to us of summer evenings. M.
                    le Maire was also very fond of singing and of being accompanied. His wife was not musical, but our
                    young ladies were very patient and kind, and used to repeat the more difficult passages over and
                    over again for him, and try not to laugh when he went very much out of tune. My sister and I used to
                    find the panelled passages a convenient retreat occasionally, when a note went very wildly astray;
                    or we could always run out through the French windows into the garden, where the grasshoppers'
                    concert would also strike up of fine summer evenings, and seemed to whistle and spread far, far
                    beyond the corn-fields and the poppy-heads. There was a terrace at the end of the garden where a
                    pavilion stood overlooking the high-road, from which we could see the regiments as they passed on
                    their way to Corbeil, and the dragoons watering their horses at the little village inn. All along
                    this terrace grew pumpkin  plants, which we scarcely noticed when
                    we first arrived, although we were full of admiration for the luxuriant vines hanging from all the
                    walls, and of which one charming tunnelled avenue ran right across a corner of the garden. Pauline
                    and I used to sit there that summer-time under the green shadows, making believe to learn Italian
                    with Goldoni and a dictionary—that is to say, I was making believe; she not only learned the
                    language, but married a Milanese gentleman in after-years. Only the other day, as we sat entranced
                    by Madame Duse's gracious inspirations, I seemed for the first time to enter into the real spirit of
                    those by-gone and almost forgotten studies. Goldoni suddenly came to life again, and I thought of
                    the old green vine avenue, and the books I had been bored by as a girl began to speak to me for the
                    first time. As the autumn went on myriads of wasps appeared; the grapes swelled and turned to golden
                    sweetness; we used to go into the garden with hunches of bread, and gather our own breakfasts and
                    luncheons growing on the walls. Along with the grapes came the pumpkins, and they also grew.
                    Cinderella's were nothing to them; the huge balls came swelling and rolling down upon us, coloring
                    and rising in every direction. We got frightened at last—it seemed wicked to waste them; we boiled
                    them, we passed them through sieves, we steeped  them in milk by
                    the Maire's advice. At the end of three or four days we absolutely loathed them. The pigs of the
                    neighborhood, already satiated with pumpkin, refused to touch them any more. On the fifth day a
                    neighbor sent us in a great basketful as a present. We were literally bombarded with pumpkins that
                    year, but let us hope it was a specially good year for fruit.
                I said that my grandfather had a special purpose in view when he brought us to Mennecy. Our dear
                    Colonel Newcome had a fancy that he could rehabilitate the family fortunes by establishing a
                    manufactory for peat fuel, which was to be made by the help of an ingenious machine. It had been
                    invented by an old friend, who had sold him the patent for a certain sum, and as a special favor.
                    This same friend, who seems to have been ingenious, though an expensive acquaintance, had also
                    invented a wooden horse, which was to supersede the usual living quadrupeds. It had the great
                    advantage of only eating coal and coke, but I believe it was found all the same to be much more
                    expensive than the real animal, and far less intelligent. I remember seeing the ingeniously carved
                    hoofs of the wooden horse standing on the piano, with a drawing for his cast-iron inside. I was only
                    once shown the peat-machine; it looked something like a stove, and used to be poked by an old woman,
                         while a little boy with a barrow brought up the peat, which
                    was then and there turned into black cakes. We never made our fortunes out of the peat, but we
                    burned a great stack of it, which glowed bright and clear, and lasted through several winters, and I
                    believe the whole thing was finally handed over to an experimentalist on the spot, who may still be
                    there for all I know. He was a short and swarthy man, who used to come and bargain in the
                    dining-room at enormous length.
                As my grandparents had spent several summers at Mennecy, they had made acquaintance with the two or
                    three neighbors, and with the family at the château. We
                    used to pass the château when we walked along the
                    high-road, which was divided from the park by a wall. Here and there were iron gates, through which
                    we could see into the shady avenues of poplar-trees and nut-trees, and in one place, where an old
                    bridge crossed a stream, we caught sight of the old white house, with its shutters and chimneys and
                    high slated roof. There had been another, a finer one, before this, we were told, standing in a
                    different corner of the same park. A fine old gateway still remained with its heraldic carvings and
                    mementos of the past, but the road had travelled on elsewhere, and no longer passed under it, as it
                    did once long ago when the king's hunt used to come along the avenue, which now led from nothing  to nowhere. There is a description of this very place in Lucien
                    Perey's delightful Memoirs of President Hénault and Madame Du Deffand: "The first
                            château belonged to the early days of Louis XV.,
                        and was inhabited by the great Maréchal de Villeroi," says the book. "Remy Hénault had a pretty
                        country-house at Éltioles [Étioles comes back to me with its willow-trees and dark amber
                        canals]; it was the house that Madame de Pompadour afterwards lived in. Hénault used to spend
                        part of the year there, and as his son was fond of sport, he bought for him from the Maréchal de
                        Villeroi a rangership and the place of Governor of Corbeil. The old Maréchal took a fancy to
                        young Hénault, and used to keep him to stay at the château, and also at his little house at Soisy, near Étioles. As ranger of the
                        district Hénault often received the Dauphin, the Duke of Burgundy, and the Duke of Berry, who
                        used to come with a small suite to Villeneuve-Saint-Georges. The Dauphin used to hunt wolves,
                        accompanied by the ranger; the young princes only shot pheasants. It is curious nowadays to
                        think of people hunting wolves at Villeneuve-Saint-Georges," continues Lucien Perey, still
                        conjuring up my past for me, and then he gives a note, saying: "The remains of the Château de
                        Villeroi still exist on the right hand of the road from Corbeil to Mennecy, a road which is
                        always called in the country ' La route de Villeroi.'" And this was the road along which we
                    used to straggle of summer evenings.
                The people who were living at the château when we lived at
                    Mennecy (the first château, I believe, was  burned down during the First Revolution) were retired manufacturers who
                    had given up business, and who now dwelt at ease and in dignity, sheltered by the high slated roofs
                    and chimneys of the old place. My grandparents had been introduced to the family by our friend the
                    Maire, and when we all went up to call with him one day, the younger members of the party were not
                    without hopes of finding some companions there, for we had seen a girl of about our own age, who
                    was, so the Maire told us, an heiress, and the only daughter of the house. As we walked up through
                    the park we met the gardener, who left his work to escort us to the front door, calling loudly to a
                    maid who sat darning stockings in the marble hall. She in turn put down her work and disappeared
                    through a tall carved doorway, returning almost immediately to ask us to go in. We found ourselves
                    in a big drawing-room with polished floors, and with many tall windows opening to the garden; some
                    of them were shuttered and curtained, and the room was rather dark. In it sat, in a semicircle with
                    chairs ready placed, the stout mother, the burly father, and the broad-shouldered heiress in her
                    plaid frock. They received us very coldly, looking at us with curiosity and aloofness, as if we had
                    been specimens of some strange, unknown race. I thought the gardener and the sewing-maid also stared
                    at us,  when they returned, almost immediately, with trays of
                    refreshment-biscuits and glasses of beer, which were handed round already poured out. I do not know
                    if this were a custom peculiar to the neighborhood, or only to this particular family. The young
                    lady seemed surprised that we should refuse. "What, English, and you do not take beer?"
                    she said, placing her tumbler between her knees. Between her draughts she then went on to ask us
                    many questions about that strange country to which we belonged, about our outlandish ways and
                    singular habits. It was a very different catechism from M. Malan's. "Did we ever go to church
                        at all?" "Did we ever say any prayers?" "Did not heretics fast every Sunday, instead of making
                        it a fête-day?" "Had we ever heard of the Virgin Mary [surprise expressed] and the saints [more
                        surprise]?" Our friend the Maire saw with pain that we young ladies were not getting on,
                    and tried to bring the conversation round to other more congenial topics than those fundamental
                    differences for which we should all have burned one another a century before; he therefore
                    introduced the piano by way of a diversion, the charmant
                        meuble from Corbeil, and I could see that we slightly rose in our host's estimation,
                    but I came away all the same very much put out. It is disagreeable to be both damned in the future
                    and looked down upon in the  present, as one belonging to an
                    ignorant and bar- barous race. I felt as if all the Catholic saints in Paradise, certainly all the
                    French ones, were shrug- ging their shoulders at us when we came away, and I spoke quite crossly to
                    M. le Maire when he asked me what I thought of the château.
                There used to be an odd stout figure walking about Mennecy in a workman's blouse and loose trousers,
                    and with a cropped head of black hair and an old casquette. We were told that it was a woman; and a
                    wholly supposititious impression once arose in some one's mind that it might have been George Sand
                    herself. I passed quite close by on one occasion, when the mysterious personage looked round and
                    then turned away, and I thrilled from head to foot. How odd those mysterious moments are when
                    nothing seems to be happening, but which nevertheless go on all the rest of one's life. I saw a
                    face, stolid and sad, giving me an impression of pain and long endurance which comes back still. It
                    seemed to be a woman's face, flabby and tanned, not old. There was no gayety in it, no adventure in
                    the eyes; but expiation, endurance, defiance, I know not what tragedy, was expressed by that
                    thickset, downcast figure. I have now, alas, no doubt that it was not George Sand. I had not read
                    any of her books then, but we had many things to read besides in the old garden. There were various
                        IN VILLEGGIATURA books my father had given us and told us to
                    read during his absence, Macaulay's Essays among them; and there was
                        Pendennis, which I had brought away from home, and which has always seemed to me
                    more like hearing him talk than any other of his books; and, above all, there were his letters which
                    came from time to time. He was giving lectures at Manchester and elsewhere before sailing for
                    America, and there is one of his letters folded in three, and addressed on the back to my sister at
                    Mennecy, Seine-et-Oise.
                "You see here is the stuck-up hand as you like it best.... I have not a great deal to say in the
                        stuck-up hand. Kensington is so gloomy that I can't stand it ... How dismal it must be for poor
                        Eliza [Eliza was the housekeeper], who has no friends to go to, who must stop in the kitchen all
                        day. As I think of her I feel inclined to go back and sit in the kitchen with Eliza, but I dare
                        say I shouldn't amuse her much, and after she had told me about the cat, and how her father was,
                        we should have nothing more to say to one another. Last week I was away at Manchester, when I
                        broke down in a speech before 3000 ladies and gentlemen. I felt very foolish, but I tried again
                        at night and did better, and as there is nothing more wicked in breaking down in a speech than
                        in slipping on a bit of orange-peel and breaking one's nose, why, I got up again, and made
                        another speech at night without breaking down. It's all custom, and most people can no more do
                        it than they can play the piano without learning. I hope you and —- are learning hard to play me
                        to sleep when I come back from America. I  believe I am going
                        to Birmingham next week with the lectures, and then to Manchester, and then— Steward, bring me a
                        basin!"
                Many years afterwards, long after I married, the good and beautiful Lady Pease gave us the great
                    pleasure of meeting Mr. John Bright at dinner at her house. I sat next Mr. Bright, and he began
                    speaking to me of my father, and of this very time. "I remember," he said, "taking him to a
                        meeting at Manchester, just before he went to America with his lectures. He broke down, and he
                        was very much annoyed, and he said to me: 'Who will ever come and hear me lecture if I
                            break down like this before such a number of people?' And I said to him: 'Never
                            you mind; very few people don't break down at one time or another. You come along with me
                            this evening; I'm going to another meeting; I'm not going to speak to fine fal-lal folks,
                            but to a set of good, honest working-men, and you must try again.' And he
                        spoke," said Mr. Bright, in his downright way, "and I never heard a better speech
                        in all my life; it was a capital speech, and they were all delighted with him." And then
                    and there Mr. Bright told me another little anecdote of my father, whom he had met a short while
                    before his death at the Reform Club. He said that as he was passing through the hall, he met him
                    standing in his way and he stepped back, took off his hat,  and
                    stood with it in his outstretched hand. "What is that for?" said Mr. Bright. "Why
                        do you hold your hat like that?"
                    "Because I see the most con- sistent politician I know going by," said my father,
                        "and I take off my hat to him."
                When my father sailed for America, people were very kind to us, and wrote to us with news of him.
                        Esmond came for my grandmother, and a box which we received at Paris puzzled us
                    very much, and delighted us no less than it puzzled us. It contained a magnificent iced cake,
                    anonymously and carefully packed with strips of many-colored paper. It was not my father who had
                    sent it, as we imagined, nor was it till long afterwards that we discovered that the sender was Mrs.
                    Procter. Many things are remembered of her, but how many kind deeds there have been of hers without
                    a name to them!
                Once the letters began to arrive from America we were all much happier, for we seemed in touch with
                    him once more, and to know what was happening. He was fairly well and in good spirits, and making
                    friends and making money. I remember his writing home on one occasion and asking us to send him out
                    a couple of new stomachs, so hospitable were his friends over the water, so numerous the dinners and
                    suppers to which he was invited. When the long summer and winter were over, and the still longer
                    spring, suddenly one day we  heard that he was coming back much
                    sooner than he expected. I believe he saw a steamer starting for home and could stand it no longer,
                    and then and there came off.
                I can still remember sitting with my grandparents, expecting his return. My sister and I sat on the
                    red sofa in the little study, and shortly before the time we had calculated that he might arrive
                    came a little ring at the front-door bell. My grandmother broke down; my sister and I rushed to the
                    front door, only we were so afraid that it might not be he that we did not dare to open it, and
                    there we stood until a second and much louder ringing brought us to our senses. "Why didn't
                        you open the door?" said my father, stepping in, looking well, broad, and upright,
                    laughing. In a moment he had never been away at all.
            

            

            

                TOUT CHEMIN


                
                
                X
                AFTER his return from America my father took an apartment in Paris for the autumn months, and it was
                    then that he told us he had made a plan for wintering in Rome. It almost seems to me now that all
                    the rest of my life dates in some measure from those old Roman days, which were all the more vivid
                    because my sister and I were still spectators and not yet actors in the play. I was just fifteen, my
                    sister was still a little girl, but I thought myself a young woman. I have written elsewhere of Mrs.
                    Kemble and Mrs. Sartoris and the Brownings, who were all living at Rome that winter, with a number
                    of interesting people, all drinking, as we were about to do, of the waters of Trevi. How few of us
                    returned to the fountain! But the proverb, I think, must apply to one's spiritual return. For,
                    though one may drink and drink, and go back again and again, it is ever a different person that
                    stands by the fountain, whereas the shadowy self by the Atone basin, bending over the rushing water,
                    is the same, and does not change.
                We started early in December, my father, my  sister, and I. He had
                    his servant with him, for already his health had begun to fail him. We reached Marseilles in bitter
                    weather late one night. We laid our travelling plaids upon our beds to keep ourselves warm, but
                    though we shivered, our spirits rose to wildest pitch next morning in the excitement of the golden
                    moment. The wonderful sights in the streets are before me still—the Jews, Turks, dwellers in
                    Mesopotamia, chattering in gorgeous colors and strange languages; the quays with their crowded
                    shipping and the amethyst water. I can still see, in a sort of mental picture, a barge piled with
                    great golden onions floating along one of the quays, guided by a lonely woman in blue rags with a
                    colored kerchief on her head. "There goes the Lady of Shalot," said my father; and when
                    we looked at him rather puzzled, for we knew nothing of onions and very little of Tennyson in those
                    days, he explained that a shalot was a species of onion, and after a moment's reflection we took in
                    his little joke, feeling that nobody ever thought of such droll things as he did. Then we reached
                    our hotel again, where there were Turks still drinking coffee under striped awnings, and a black man
                    in a fez, and a lank British diplomat, with a very worn face, who knew my father, arriving from some
                    outlandish place with piles of luggage; and we caught sight of the master of the hotel and his
                    family  gathered round a soup-tureen in a sort of glass
                    conservatory, and so went up-stairs to rest and refresh ourselves before our start that evening. All
                    this splendor and novelty and lux mundi had turned our
                    heads, for we forgot our warm wraps and half our possessions at the hotel, and did not discover,
                    till long after the steamer had started with all of us on board, how many essentials we had left
                    behind.
                The sun was setting as we steamed out of Marseilles, and the rocky island of If stood out dark and
                    crisp against the rush of bright wavelets, across which we strained our eyes to see Monte Cristo in
                    his sack splashing into the water of the bay. Then we got out to sea, and the land disappeared by
                    degrees. How the stars shone that night on board the big ship! The passengers were all on deck
                    talking in a pleasant murmur of voices, broken by laughs and exclamations. Among them were some
                    people who specially attracted us, a very striking and beautiful quartet from the north. There was a
                    lovely mother, oldish, widowed, but very beautiful still; the two charming daughters, one tall and
                    lovely, the other a piquante brunette; there was the son, one of the handsomest young men I have
                    ever seen. They were going to Rome, they told us, for the winter. Christina, the eldest girl, was
                    dressed in white. She seemed to me some fair Urania, controlling the stars in their wondrous maze as
                    she and  I and my sister paced the deck till it was very late, and
                    some bell sounded, and my father came up and sent us down to our cabin. Then the night turned bitter
                    cold, and, as we had left our shawls on the shores of France, we made haste to get to bed and to be
                    warm. Though it was cold, we liked fresh air and were glad to find that our port-holes had been left
                    open by the steward; we scrambled into our berths, and fell asleep. I lay at the top, and my sister
                    in the berth below. How well I remember waking suddenly in a slop of salt-water! The ship was
                    sinking, we were all going to be drowned, and with a wild shriek calling to my sister I sprang from
                    the cabin and rushed up the companion-steps on deck. I thought she called me back, but I paid no
                    heed as I reached the top of the companion-ladder, dripping and almost in tears, with my fatal
                    announcement. There I encountered the steward, who began to laugh, and who led me back crest-fallen
                    to our cabin, at the door of which my sister was standing. The water was dancing in, in a stream,
                    and the steward scolded us well as he screwed up the port-holes and got us some dry bedding. Next
                    morning, to my inexpressible mortification, I heard some people telling the story. "She rushed
                        on deck, and declared the ship was sinking," said one voice to another. I didn't wait to
                    hear any more, but fled.


                

                The wind went down again, but it was still bitter cold, and we shivered without our wraps, as we
                    steamed up to Genoa along the spreading quays with their background of gorgeous palaces and
                    cloud-capped towers. There were convicts in their chains at work upon the great steps of the quay,
                    who stared at us as we landed. And the very first thing which happened to us when we found ourselves
                    in Italy at last—the land where citrons bloom, where orange flowers scent the air—was that we drove
                    straight away to a narrow back street, where we were told we should find a shop for English goods,
                    and then and there my father bought us each a warm gray wrap, with stripes of black, nothing in the
                    least Italian or romantic, but the best that we could get. And then, as we had now a whole day to
                    spend on shore, and shawls to keep us warm, we drove about the town, and after visiting a palace or
                    two took the railway, which had been quite lately opened to Pisa. The weather must have changed as
                    the day went on, for it was sunshine, not Shetland wool, that warmed us at last; but the wind was
                    blowing still, and what I specially remember in the open Piazza at Pisa is the figure of a stately
                    monk, whose voluminous robes were fluttering and beating as he passed us, wrapped in darkness,
                    mystical, majestic, with all the light beyond his stateliness and the cathedral in its  glory and the Leaning Tower aslant in the sunlight for a background.
                Our adventures for the day were not yet over. At the station we found two more of the ship's
                    passengers, young men with whom we had made acquaintance, and we all returned to Genoa together. The
                    train was late, and we had to be on board at a certain time, so that we engaged a carriage, and
                    drove quickly to the quay, where the convicts clanking in their chains were still at work. A boat
                    was found, rowed by some sailors who certainly did not wear chains, but who were otherwise not very
                    unlike those industrious convicts in appearance. The bargain was made, we entered the boat all five,
                    and as we were getting in we could see our great ship in the twilight looking bigger than ever, and
                    one rocket and then another going off towards the dawning stars. "They are signalling for
                        us," said one of our companions; "we shall soon be on board."
                We had rowed some twenty strokes from the shore by this time, when suddenly the boatmen left off
                    rowing; they put down their oars, and one of them began talking volubly, though I could not
                    understand what he said. "What's to be done ?" said one of the young men to my father. "They say
                    they won't go on unless we give them fifty francs more," and he began shaking his head and  remonstrating in broken Italian. The boatmen paid no attention,
                    shrugged their shoulders, and waited, as if they were determined never to row another stroke. Then
                    the steamer sent up two more rockets, which rose through the twilight, bidding us hurry; and then
                    suddenly my father rose up in the stern of the boat where he was sitting, and standing tall and
                    erect, and in an anger such as I had never seen him in before or after in all my life, he shouted
                    out in loud and indignant English, " D—-n you, go on!" a simple malediction which carried more force
                    than all the Italian polysyllables and expostulations of our companions. To our surprise and great
                    relief, the men seemed frightened, and took to their oars again and began to row, grumbling and
                    muttering. When we got on board the ship, they told us it was a well-known trick the Genoese boatmen
                    were in the habit of playing upon travellers, and that they would have sent a boat for us if we had
                    delayed any longer.
                We reached our journey's end next morning, and landed at Civita Vecchia about mid-day. This land- ing
                    was no less wonderful than everything else, we thought, as we looked in awe at the glorious blaze of
                    color, at the square Campanile with its flat tilted roof, and at all that we were going to see, which was there to meet us on the very shore. To begin with, there was the
                    chorus from the Opera waiting 174 CHAPTERS FROM SOME UNWRITTEN
                    MEMOIRS in readiness-men with pointed hats and Italian legs, women in fancy dress, with fancy-dress
                    babies, all laughing, talking in Italian, and at home in Italy. We had some trouble in getting our
                    luggage through the dogana. Most of the other travellers
                    started before we did, and we were among the last to start for Rome. My father was anxious to get
                    on, for there were unpleasant rumors about brigands on the road. Another family (Russians) with a
                    courier and a great deal of luggage was to follow us, and some one suggested we should wait for
                    their escort; but, on the whole, my father decided to start. The afternoon shadows were beginning to
                    lengthen, when at length we were packed and ready. We had a mouldy post-chaise, with a gray ragged
                    lining, and our luggage on the top. We hoped to get to Rome before dark. I remember thrilling as my
                    father buttoned his overcoat and told us he had put his hundred louis for safety into an inner
                    pocket.
                The country is not very beautiful between Civita Vecchia and Rome—at least, I do not remember
                    anything to distract our attention fromour alarms. We were just frightened enough to be stimulated
                    and amused as we jolted past the wide fields where the men were at work. We sat all three abreast in
                    the jolting old carriage. My father's servant was on the box. We were reading our Tauchnitz TOUT CHEMIN books, being tired of watching the flat horizons, when
                    suddenly the carriage stopped, and Charles Pearman, with a pale face of alarm, came to the window
                    and said that one of the traces had broken, and that there were a number of people all coming round
                    the carriage. We were surrounded by people as if by magic-satyrs, shepherds, strange bearded
                    creatures with conical hats, and with pitch-forks in their hands. The sun was just setting, and
                    dazzling into our faces all the time. For some five minutes we waited, looking at each other in
                    silence, and wondering what was going to come next. At the end of that time, and after a good deal
                    of conversation with the postilions, the satyrs and fauns went their way with their pitchforks,
                    leaving us, to our inexpressible relief, to continue our journey. Then came the dusk at last, and
                    the road seemed longer and longer. I think I had fallen asleep in my corner, when my father put his
                    hand on my shoulder. "Look!" he said; and I looked, and, lo! there rose the dusky dome
                    of St. Peter's gray upon the dark-blue sky.
                Very soon afterwards some one with a lantern opened the gates of Rome and examined our passport, and
                    let us in. We drove to our hotel in the Via Condotti, and when we awoke it was to the sound of
                    countless church bells in the morning light.



                

                When we leaned from the window of our entresol sitting-room, with its odd yellow walls, we could
                    almost touch the heads of the passers-by. It was Sunday morning; all the bells were flinging and
                    ringing, and they seemed to be striking and vibrating against that wonderful blue sky overhead. How
                    well I remember my first Roman contadina as she walked majestically along the street
                    below—black-haired, white-becapped, white-besleeved, and covered with ornaments—on her way to
                    mass.
                The Piazza d'Espagna, at the end of our street, was one flood, of sunshine, in which other contadinas and bambinos and romantic
                    shepherds were all floating when we came out to look and to wonder. Wonderful as it all was, it
                    seemed also almost disappointing. We had expected, we didn't know what ; and this was something—something tangible, appreciable, and, so far, less than we expected. "Wait a
                    little," said my father; " people are always a little disappointed when they first come to
                    Rome."
                I remember long after hearing Mr. Appleton, that wise and witty American, say, "People expect
                        to taste the result of two thousand years of civilization in a morning. It takes more than a
                        morning to receive so much into one's mind ... a life- time is not too long." Mr.
                    Appleton was right when he said it takes a lifetime to realize some ideas. But now and then one
                    certainly lives a  lifetime almost in a comparatively flying
                    minute; land those two months at Rome, short as they were, have lasted my lifetime. The people, the
                    sights, the sounds, have never quite ceased for me yet. They have become an habitual association,
                    and have helped to make that mental standard by which one habitually measures the events as they
                    follow one another.
                The first evening in Rome, as we sat at dinner at the table d'hôte,
                    in the dark vaulted dining-room, all the people, I remember, were talking confusedly of an attack by
                    brigands upon some Russians on the road from Civita Vecchia—the very vagueness of the rumor made it
                    the more impressive to us. There is a letter from my father which he must have written to his mother
                    the very next day; it is dated Hôtel Franz, via Condotti, December 6. "We have very comfortable
                        quarters at the hotel where I lived before," he writes, "except for some animal that bit
                        me furiously when I was asleep yesterday on the sofa. It can't be a bug, of course— the
                        chambermaid declares she has never seen such a thing, nor so much as a flea, so it must be a
                        scorpion, I suppose," and he goes on to compare St. Peter's to Pisa. "We agreed Pisa is
                        the best," he says. "The other is a huge heathen parade. The founder of the religion
                        utterly disappears under the enormous pile of fiction and ceremony that has  been built ,round him. I'm not quite sure that I think St. Peter's
                        handsome. The front is positively ugly, that is certain, but nevertheless the city is
                        glorious. We had a famous walk on the Pincio, and the sun set for us with a splendor quite
                        imperial. I wasn't sorry when the journey from Civita Vecchia was over. Having eighty or ninety
                        louis in my pocket, I should have been good meat for the brigands had they chosen to
                    come."
                Very soon our friends began to appear—Mr. Browning, Mr. Sartoris, Mr. Eneas Macbean. Mr. Macbean was
                    the English banker. He was the kindest of bankers, and used to send us piles of the most delightful
                    books to read. Lockhart's Scott and Bulwer's heroes and Disraeli's saint-like politicians all came
                    to inhabit our palazzo, when we were established there. Zanoni and
                    that cat-like spirit of the threshold are as vivid to me as any of the people who used to come to
                    dinner. We met our late fellow-travellers (who now also seemed like old friends) hurrying about in
                    search of lodgings; we stood under the great dome of St. Peter's; we saw the Tiber rushing under its
                    bridges; then, no doubt in consequence of the scorpions, we went about to look for lodgings, and it
                    was Mr. Browning who told us where to go. One can hardly imagine a more ideal spot for little girls
                    to live in than that to which he directed us—to a great apartment over  the pastry-cook's in the Palazzo Poniatowski, in the Via Della Croce. We
                    climbed a broad stone stair-case with a handsome wrought-iron banister, we clanged at an echoing
                    bell, and a little old lady in a camisole, rejoicing in the imposing name of Signora Ercole, opened
                    the door, and showed us into a dark outer hall. Then she led the way from room to room, until we
                    finally reached a drawing-room with seven windows, at which we exclaimed in preliminary admiration.
                    Among the other items of Sour installation were a Chinese museum, a library, a dining-room with a
                    brazen charcoal-burner in the centre, and besides all these we were to have a bed-room, a
                    dressing-room, and a cupboard for my father's servant. My father took the dressing-room for himself.
                    He put me and my sister into the big bedroom to the front, and the man retired to the cupboard in
                    the hall. Signora Ercole, our land-lady, also hospitably offered us the run of her own magnificent
                    sitting-rooms, besides the four or five we had engaged. I have a vague impression of her family of
                    daughters, also in camisoles, huddled away into some humbler apartment, but we saw little of them.
                    We established ourselves in one corner of the great drawing-room, clearing an inlaid table of its
                    lamps and statuettes, its wax flowers, and other adornments. Then we felt at home. A stone-mason
                    suspended at his work began to sing in  mid-air just outside one
                    of the windows, there came to us the sound of the pfifferari from the piazza down
                    below, and the flutter of the white doves' wings and their flying shadows upon the floor, to- gether
                    with a scent of flowers and sense of foun- tains, and the fusty, fascinating smell from the old
                    hangings and bric-à-brac. I think the Ercoles must have done some business as brocanteurs, for the fur- niture was more like that of a museum than a hu-
                    man living-house; all over the walls they had rows of paintings in magnificent gildings, of which
                    the frames were the most important parts. All the same, the whole effect was imposing and
                    delightful, and we felt like enchanted princesses in a palace, and flew from room to room.
                About luncheon-time my father sent us down to the pastry-cook's shop, where we revelled among cream
                    tarts and petits fours, and then we ordered our dinner, as people
                    did then, from a trattoria near at hand. Then we went out
                    again, still in our raptures, and when dinner-time came, just about sunset, excitement had given us
                    good appetites, notwithstanding the tarts. We were ready, but dinner delayed. We waited more and
                    more impatiently as the evening advanced, but still no dinner appeared. Then the English servant,
                    Charles, was called, and despatched to the cook-shop to make inquiry. He came back much agitated,
                    saying the  dinner had been sent—that they assured him it had been
                    sent! It had apparently vanished on its way up the old palace stairs. "Go back," said
                    my father, "and tell them there is some mistake, and that we are very hungry, and waiting
                        still." The man left the room, then returned again with a doubtful look. There was a sort
                    of box came an hour ago, he said: "I have not opened it, sir." With a rush my sister
                    and I flew into the hall, and there, sure enough, stood a square, solid iron box with a hinged top.
                    It certainly looked very unlike dinner, but we raised it with faint hopes, which were not
                    disappointed! Inside, and smoking still upon the hot plates, was spread a meal like something in a
                    fairy-tale—roast birds and dressed meat, a loaf of brown bread and competes of fruit, and a salad
                    and a bottle of wine, to which good fare we immediately sat down in cheerful excitement—our first
                    Roman family meal together.
                When people write of the past, those among us who have reached a certain age are sometimes apt to
                    forget that it is because so much of it still exists in our lives that it is so dear to us. And, as
                    I have said before, there is often a great deal more of the past in the future than there was in the
                    past itself at the time. We go back to meet our old selves, more tolerant, forgiving our own
                    mistakes, understanding it all better, appreciating its simple joys  and realities. There are compensations for the loss of youth and fresh impressions; and one
                    learns little by little that a thing is not over because it is not happening with noise and shape or
                    outward sign; its roots are in our hearts, and every now and then they send forth a shoot which
                    blossoms and bears fruit still.
                Early life is like a chapter out of Dickens, I think— one sees people then; their
                    tricks of expression, their vivid sayings, and their quaint humors and oddities do not surprise one;
                    one accepts every-thing as a matter of course—no matter how unusual it may be. Later in life one
                    grows more fas- tidious, more ambitious, more paradoxical; one begins to judge, or to make excuses,
                    or to think about one's companions instead of merely staring at them. All the people we now saw for
                    the first time=-vivid but mysterious apparitions; we didn't know what they were feeling and thinking
                    about, only we saw them, and very delightful they all were to look at.
                Meanwhile our education was not neglected. We had a poetess to teach us a little Italian, a signora
                    with a magnificent husband in plaid trousers, to whom I am sure she must have written many poems.
                    Once she asked us to spend an evening in her apartment. It was high up in a house in a narrow
                    street, bare and swept, and we found a company whose conversation (notwithstanding all  Madame Eleonora Torti's instructions) was quite unintelligble to us. We
                    all sat in a circle round a great brass brazier in the centre of the bare room. Every now and then
                    the host took up an iron bar and stirred the caldron round, and the fumes arose. Two or three of the
                    elder people sat in a corner playing cards-but here'also we were at fault. The cards represented
                    baskets of flowers, coins, nuts, unknown and mysterious devices; among which the familiar ace of
                    diamonds was the only sign we could recognize.
                After these social evenings our man used to come to fetch us home, through moonlight streets, past
                    little shrines with burning lamps, by fountains plashing in the darkness. We used to reach our great
                    staircase, hurry up half frightened of ghosts and echoes, but, being too much alive ourselves to go
                    quickly to sleep, we opened Mr. Macbean's fascinating book, read by the light of our flaring candles
                    long after we had heard our father's door shut and till the bell of the Frate in the convent close
                    by began to toll.

            




            
            

            

                 MRS. KEMBLE

                
                
                XI

                MY father was a very young man when he first knew the Kemble family. In 1832 he himself was
                    twenty-one, a couple of years younger than Mrs. Fanny Kemble, 
                    who was born in 1809. The mentions of
                    the Kemble family in a diary which he kept about that time are very constant. "Called at
                        Kemble's. Walked with Kemble in the Park." (Kemble was John Mitchell Kemble, Mrs. Fanny Kemble's
                        brother.) "We met the Duke looking like an old hero," he continues. "Breakfasted with
                        Kemble. Went to see the rehearsal of the Easter piece at Covent Garden, with Farley in his
                        glory." Again: "Called at Kemble's. He read me some very beautiful verses by
                        Tennyson." On another occasion my father speaks of seeing a "Miss Tot, a very nice girl.
                        Madam not visible;" and again of "Miss Fanny still in Paris...."
                It was in the year 1851, or thereabouts, that my own scraps of recollections begin, and that I re-
                    member walking with my father along the high street at Southampton, and somewhere near the archway
                    he turned, taking us with him into the old  Assembly Rooms, where
                    I heard for the first and only time in all my life a Shakesperean reading by Mrs. Fanny Kemble. I
                    think it was the first time I ever saw her. She came in with a stiff and stately genuflection to the
                    audience, took her seat at the little table prepared for her, upon which she laid her open book, and
                    immediately began to read. My sister and I sat on either side of our father. He followed every word
                    with attention; I cannot even make.sure of the play after all these years, but Falstaff was in it,
                    and with a rout and a shout a jolly company burst in. Was it Falstaff and his companions, or were
                    they "Fairies, black, gray, green, and white, You moonshine revellers—"?
                Suddenly the lady's voice rose, with some generous cheery chord of glorious fun and jollity. I can
                    hear the echo still and see her action as she pointed outwards with both open hands, and my father,
                    with a start, bursting into sympathizing laughter and plaudit, began crying "Bravo!
                        Bravo!" and then again he sat listening and looking approvingly through his spectacles.
                    As we came away he once more broke into praise. "Don't you see how admirably she forgets
                        herself?" he said; "how she throws herself into it all? how finely she feels
                        it?" My father was the best of audiences, a born critic  and yet an enthusiast; and to the last he could throw himself into the passing mood, into the
                    spirit of the moment, while at the same time he knew what it was he was admiring, and why he
                    admired.
                Some years passed before we met Mrs. Kemble again, in Rome. It was at a very hard and difficult hour
                    of her life, so I have heard her say, a time when she needed all her courage to endure her daily
                    portion of suffering. I was then a hobbledehoy, and (though she was no less kind to me then than in
                    later years) I only stared and wondered at her ways, asking myself what she meant, and how much she
                    meant by the things she said; but when I, too, was an older woman the scales fell from my eyes.
                One had to learn something one's self before one could in the least appreciate her. When the gods
                    touch one's hair with gray, then comes some compensating revelation of what has been and still is.
                    Now I can understand the passionate way in which Mrs. Kemble used in early times to speak of
                    slavery; then I used to wonder, nor realize in the least what she felt, when she would sometimes
                    start to her feet in agitation and passionate declamation; she who with streaming eyes and wrung
                    heart had walked about the plantations feeling more, perhaps, than any slave could do what it was to
                    be a slave. To her free and ruling nature every hour of bondage 
                    must have seemed nothing short of torture. In those far-back Roman days of which I have been
                    writing, she used to take us out driving with her from time to time. "Where shall I drive
                        to?" asked the coachman. "Andate al
                            Diavolo!" said Mrs. Kemble, gayly. "Go where you will, only
                        go!" And away we drive through the streets, and out by garden walls and garden gates to
                    the Campagna, and as we drive along she begins to sing to us. I could box my own past ears for
                    wondering what the passers-by would think of it, instead of enjoying that by-gone song.
                I can also remember Mrs. Kemble sitting dressed in a black dress silently working all through the
                    evening by her sister's fireside, and gravely stitching on and on, while all the brilliant company
                    came and went, and the music came and went. In those days Mrs. Kemble had certain dresses which she
                    wore in rotation whatever the occasion might be. If the black gown chanced to fall upon a gala-day
                    she wore it, if the pale silk gown fell upon a working-day she wore it; and I can still hear an
                    American girl exclaiming with dismay as the delicate folds of a white silk embroidered with flowers
                    went sweeping over the anemones in the Pamphili Gardens. Another vivid impression I have is of an
                    evening visit Mrs. Kemble paid Mrs. Browning in the quiet little room in the Bocca di Leone, only
                    lit  by a couple of tapers and by the faint glow of the fire. I
                    looked from one to the other: Mrs. Browning welcoming her guest, dim in her dusky gown unrelieved;
                    Mrs. Kemble upright and magnificent, robed on this occasion like some Roman' empress in stately
                    crimson edged with gold. It happened to be the red-dress day, and she wore it. "How do you
                        suppose I could have lived my life," I once heard her say, "if I had not lived by
                        rule, if I had not made laws for myself and kept to them?" Out of this stress of feeling,
                    out of this passionate rebellion against fate, she grew to the tender, the noble and spirited
                    maturity of her later days. In time, by habit and degrees, we learn to understand a little more how
                    to fit ourselves to circumstances, and life begins to seem possible and to contain certain elements
                    of peace and of philosophy; it is in mid-life when we try to accommodate our own wants and wishes to
                    those of others that the strain is greatest and the problem occasionally passes beyond our powers of
                    solution. Indeed, very few solutions are possible, though wise compromises exist for us all. Some
                    are more adaptable than others, and not having very positive selves to manage, having impressions
                    rather than strong convictions to act upon, they run fairly well along other people's lines; but
                    when strong feeling, vivid realizations, passionate love of truth and justice, uncompromising  faith exist, then experience becomes hard indeed. When Mrs.
                    Kemble went to her rest only the other day, few among the critics who spoke so inadequately of that
                    great personality, who wrote their conventional praise or indiscriminating blame, had come into
                    touch with the magnetism of her personal inspiration. One only, her own and her daughter's personal
                    friend, Mr. Henry James, to whom she turned with confidence and love to the very last, has found
                    words to write that of her which those who knew her best will best appreciate. "A prouder nature
                        never fronted the long humiliation of life," he says, touching upon the more tragic side of
                    her history.
                One should have a different language to speak with of each of those one has loved and admired in
                    turn. Such a language exists in one's heart, but how can one translate it into print? Some people
                    seem like green places in the desert; one thinks of them, and one is at rest. It is also true that
                    there exist a certain number who oppress one with nameless discouragement, bores past and present.
                    But the Elect are those who put life into one, who give courage to the faint-hearted, hope out of
                    their own hearts' constancy; to these Fanny Kemble belonged indeed. To the end she retained the
                    power of making new friends, of being loved by them and of loving them. One member of my own family,
                         whom the elder lady was pleased to christen Rosalind, only
                    knew her when she was long past seventy years of age, but what a true and spontaneous friendship was
                    that which sprang up between them both, one which added, so wrote Mrs. Wister, to the happiness of
                    her mother's later years. Mrs. Kemble returned love with love in full measure, whether it came to
                    her in the shape of beautiful white azaleas from an old friend's hand, or of music played so as to
                    delight her fine taste, or even as dumme Liebe with
                    nothing to say, nothing to show.
                I once went out shopping with her one spring morning when she thought her room would look the
                    brighter for muslin curtains to admit the light. She carried a long purse full of sovereigns in her
                    hand. We drove to Regent Street to a shop where she told me her mother and her aunt used both to go.
                    It may have been over that very counter that the classic "Will it wash?" was uttered. The
                    shopman, who had assuredly not served Mrs. Siddons or he would have learned his lesson earlier in
                    life, produced silken hangings and worsted and fabrics of various hues and textures to Mrs. Kemble's
                    great annoyance. I had gone to another counter and came back to find her surrounded by draperies,
                    sitting on her chair and looking very serious; distant thunder seemed in the air. "Young
                        man," she  said to the shopman, "perhaps your
                        time is of no value to you—to me my time is of great value. I shall thank you
                        to show me the things I asked for instead of all these things for which I did not
                            ask," and she flashed such a glance at him as must have surprised the youth. He
                    looked perfectly scared, seemed to leap over the counter, and the muslin curtains appeared on the
                    spot.
                Mrs. Kemble once asked me suddenly what color her eyes were, and confused and unready I answered,
                        "Light eyes." At the moment indeed they looked like amber, not unlike the eyes of
                    some of those captive birds one sees in their cages sitting alone in the midst of crowds. Mrs.
                    Kemble laughed at my answer. "Light eyes! Where are your own? Do you not know that I have been
                        celebrated for my dark eyes?" she said; and then I looked again and they were dark and
                    brilliant, and looking at me with a half-amused, half-reproachable earnestness.
                It must have been in the early years of the century that Sir Thomas Lawrence sketched that well-known
                    and most charming head of Mrs. Fanny Kemble with which we are most of us acquainted. The oval face,
                    the dark eyes, the wise young brows, the glossy profusion of dark hair, represent her youth; she was
                    no less striking in her age, though  no great painter ever
                    depicted it. She grew to be old indeed, but it was only for a little while that she was an old
                    woman. Stately, upright, ruddy and brown of complexion, almost to the very last;, mobile and
                    expressive in feature, reproachful, mocking, and humorous, heroic, uplifted in turn. This was no old
                    woman, feeling the throb of life with an intensity far beyond that of younger people, splendid in
                    expression, vehement, and yet at times tender with a tenderness such as is very rare. She was indeed
                    one of those coming from the mountain, one of the bearers of good tidings. As a girl I used to watch
                    Mrs. Kemble stitching at her worsted work, and so in later days we have all seen her; sitting in her
                    arm-chair, dressed in her handsome black silk Paris dress and lace cap. She sits upright by the
                    window, with flowers on the table beside her, while her birds are pecking in their cage. For a long
                    time she kept and tended certain American mocking-birds, letting them out of their cages to fly
                    about the room, and perch here and there upon the furniture. "I have no right," she
                    used to say, "to inflict the annoyance of my pleasures upon my servants, and therefore I
                        attend to my birds and their requirements myself." She emphasizes her words as she sits
                    at work, stitching in the long colored threads with extra point as she speaks, or again, when she is
                    interested in what she  says, putting down her tapestry and
                    looking straight into your face, as she explains her meaning directly and clearly, and without fear
                    of being misunderstood. I once complained to her of something said by some one else. "I do not
                        care what any one thinks of me, or chooses to say of me"—I can almost hear her speak;
                        "nay, more than that, I do not care what any one chooses to say of the people I love; it
                        does not in any way affect the truth. People are at liberty to speak what they choose, and I am
                        also at liberty not to care one farthing for what they say nor for any mistakes that they
                        make." What Mrs. Kemble did care for, scrupulously, with infinite solicitude, was the
                    fear of having ever caused pain by anything that she had said in the energy of the moment; she would
                    remember it and think over it after days had passed. People did not always understand her, nor how
                    her love of the truth, as it appeared to her, did not prevent her tenderness for the individual; she
                    would also take it for granted that whoever it was she was talking to also preferred the truth to
                    any adaptation of it. Her stories of the past were endlessly interesting and various. She had known
                    everybody of interest. She had always detested banalities, preferring silence to commonplace. Even
                    as a girl she seems to have gone to the root of things, and made others speak from their hearts. Her
                    pathetic  story of Mary Shelley haunts one with the saddest
                    persistence, and seems to sigh back the cur- tain of the past. "Bring up a boy to think for
                        himself," she as a girl once said to Mrs. Shelley; and to this came the mother's
                    passionate reply, "Ah! no, no; bring him up to think like other people."
                Mr. Henry James instances among her social gifts her extraordinary power of calling up the
                    representation of that which was in her mind, and impressing others with her own impression. Those,
                    he says, who sometimes went with her to the play in the last years of her life will remember the
                    Juliets, the Beatrices, the Rosalinds, whom she could still make vivid without any accessory except
                    the surrounding London uproar.
                I myself fortunately once happened to ask her some question concerning "As You Like It,"which had
                    been her sister's favorite play. Suddenly, as if by a miracle, her little room seemed transformed;
                    there were the actors, not even actors; there stood Rosalind and Celia themselves, there stood the
                    Duke, there was Orlando in the life and spirit. One spoke and then another, Rosalind pleading, the
                    stern Duke unrelenting; then we were somehow carried to the Forest, with its depths and its
                    delightful company. It all lasted but a few moments, and there was Mrs. Kemble again sitting in her
                    chair in her usual corner; and yet I cannot to  this day realize
                    that the whole beautiful mirage did not sweep through the little room, with color and light and
                    emotion, and the rustling of trees, and the glittering of embroidered draperies.
                Mrs. Kemble told me that she herself had only once heard her aunt Mrs. Siddons read. She said the
                    impression was very overpowering, though she had been almost a child at the time. It was from the
                    witches' scene in "Macbeth" that Mrs. Siddons read. She was very old and broken at the time, and
                    living in retirement; but she forgot her suffering state in her theme. The sense of storm and
                    mystery and power was all round about, Mrs. Kemble said. One can imagine the scene, the dark-eyed
                    maiden sitting at the feet of the great actress and receiving the initiation from her failing
                    hands.
                The true dramatic faculty does not indeed depend on footlights, or on a stage; it is a special gift
                    from spirit to spirit. Fanny Kemble was almost the very last representative of the ruling race to
                    which she belonged, and in no small degree did she retain to the very end their noble gift of
                    illumination, of giving life to words and feelings. She herself has defined this power. "Things
                        dramatic and things theatrical are often confounded together" she writes. "English
                        people, being for the most part neither one nor the other, speak as if they were identical,
                        instead of so dissimilar that they  are nearly opposite. That
                        which is dramatic in human nature is the passionate, emotional, humorous element, the simplest
                        portion of our composition; that which imitates it is its theatrical reproduction. The dramatic
                        is the real of which the theatrical is the false. A combination of the power," she
                    continues, "of representing passion and emotion with that of imagining or conceiving it is
                        essential to make a good actor; their combination in the highest degree alone makes a great
                        one."
                I remember Mrs. Sartoris once saying: "I do not know if you will think it very conceited of me;
                        but it always seems to me that no one I ever talk to seems able to say anything clearly and to
                        the point, except myself and my sister Fanny. When she speaks I know exactly what she means and
                        wants to say; when other people speak, I have to find out what they mean, and even then I am not
                        certain that they know it themselves." As Mrs. Sartoris spoke she—looked at me with her
                    searching glance; her beautiful head was like that of some classical statue nobly set upon her
                    shoulders. But no classical statue ever looked at you as she did; her eyes and mouth spoke before
                    she uttered. She always seemed to me an improvisatrice. Both these women had the rare power of
                    stirring and stimulating one's sleepy makeshift soul, suggesting, satisfying. It was as if Mrs.
                    Sartoris could at will compel the  sound and the sense and the
                    color into that in which she was interested, so that we were all for the time, and indeed for a
                    lifetime since, illumined by her.
                Mrs. Sartoris was living in Paris in the Rue Royale, at one time, in a very stately apartment. It
                    seemed to suit her, as did all handsome and beautiful things. I don't suppose the modern aesthetic
                    taste would have suited her. She liked glorious things full of color, Italian, sumptuous, and she
                    liked them used for daily life and pleasure. She made a home out of her lovely bric-à-brac and
                    tapestries and cabinets. Something, of course, must be allowed for the grateful excitement of
                    inexperience; but to us in those days her houses seemed like succeeding paradises upon earth. I can
                    remember on one occasion gazing in admiration at a glowing shaded lamp, the first I had ever seen,
                    reflected from one glass to another, and listening to my hostess as she sang Oberon's "Mermaid
                    Song," from the far end of the room. Then came dinner in an octagon dining-room at a round table
                    with pink wax candles and ices, and then a quick drive to the theatre where our stalls were kept for
                    us. I remember neither the name of the theatre nor of the play, only the look of the bright lighted
                    stage, and the pretty white house full of spectators. Mrs. Sartoris was using a pair of turquoise
                    eye-glasses  through which she looked about, and presently she
                    whispered to me, "There, to your left, in the box on the first tier." I looked,
                    expecting I know not what, and my first impression was disappointment. I saw some figures in the
                    box—two men standing at the back, and a lady in a front seat sitting alone. She was a stout
                    middle-aged woman, dressed in a stiff watered-silk dress, with a huge cameo, such as people then
                    wore, at her throat. Her black shiny hair shone like polished ebony; she had a heavy red face,
                    marked brows, great dark eyes; there was something-how shall I say it?—rather fierce, defiant, and
                    set in her appearance, powerful, sulky; she frightened one a little. "That is George
                        Sand," said Mrs. Sartoris, bending her head and making a friendly sign to the lady with
                    her eyeglasses. The figure also bent its head, but I don't remember any smile or change of that
                    fixed expression. The contrast struck me the more, for my hostess, as I have said, scarcely needed
                    to speak to make herself understood; her whole countenance spoke for her even if she was silent.
                    George Sand looked half-bored, half-far-away; she neither lighted up nor awoke into greeting.*
                
                * I like better to think of George Sand as I never saw her, with
gray hairs and a softened life, outcoming and helpful, and living in
later years among her plants and her grandchildren and her poor
people; to imagine her as I have heard her described in her age, 
                    [con't on p.202] 
                    beneficent, occupied, tending and prescribing, distributing the simples 
out of her garden, healing the sick, softened by time, giving to
others day by day what she had earned by her nights of persistent
work.




                

                Mrs. Kemble once said she had heard George Sand described half in fun as "unamiable, very
                        emphatic, very dictatorial—very like herself, in short "; but perhaps the description was
                    as superficial in one case as it assuredly would have been in the other.
                Mrs. Kemble was dramatic rather than dictatorial. Her selection of facts was curiously partial and
                    even biassed; not so her uncompromising sense of their moral value. When she sat with her watch open
                    before her, reading, writing, working to rule, it was because time itself was of importance, in her
                    eyes, rather than her work. For her, life belonged to time, rather than time to life. "Do you
                        think I could have borne with my life if I had not lived by rule," she used to say. She
                    carried her love of method into everything, even into the game of patience with which she amused
                    herself. Evening after evening the table would be set and the appointed number of games would be
                    played conscientiously, as she sat, whether she was tired or not, inclined or not, as a beloved
                    enchantress dealing out past destinies to the pasteboard men and women on the table before her. Mrs.
                    Kemble once 
                    
                    
                    MRS. KEMBLE sent over for a neighbor to teach him patience; one
                    might moralize over the combination—Mrs. Kemble teaching patience in her grand-seigneur fashion, and
                    meekly subservient to its laws! It was indeed because she was so conscious of passionate interests
                    and diversities that she tried to shape her life to one recurring pattern. A friend recalls an
                    anecdote of Frederika Bremer, who was not willing to see Mrs. Kemble on one occasion, explaining
                    afterwards, "I could not see so many people as you are when I had a headache." She was
                    indeed many people—actors and musicians, philosophers, teachers, and poets—in one. She was eighty
                    before she attempted a novel, but her letters are models, especially the earlier ones. Her poems are
                    very lovely. Her farewell to the Alps was written after threescore years and ten had passed over her
                    head, and I heard her read it with tears. Once I asked her why she so disliked the stage, loving all
                    that belonged to it as she did. She said that it was because she loved her own being even more than
                    her art; that she found the constant stimulation of emotion in time destroyed in herself the
                    possibility of natural feeling, and that she wished to keep the possession of her own soul; but I
                    think she has also written this somewhere in her Records.
                Perhaps the most distinguishing stamp of her character was her great and fervent piety. Her  convictions were very deep; what she said of her own religious
                    faith was that it was "invincible, unreasoning."  I have heard a friend describe how, as they
                    came along the mountain-pass from Roselaui, Mrs. Kemble made her bearers set her down at the summit
                    of the ascent. "I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills," she said, breaking out into the
                    words of the psalm, and repeating verse after verse. She used to go regularly to church when she was
                    in London, though I do not think any of the steeples and pulpits which adorn South Kensington
                    exactly suited the deep and fervent spirit of her faith. She was neither high church nor low church
                    nor broad church, and once after witnessing a Catholic ceremony, the Fête Dieu, in some foreign city, she exclaimed to her man-servant, "Oh, Govert,
                        what an amusing religion you have!" But her faith was a noble one, and her great reverence
                    for what was good and great seemed to make goodness and greatness nearer to us.
                Of all possessions, that of the added power which comes to us through the gifts of bthers is one of
                    the most mysterious and most precious. We are in- adequate in a thousand ways, but the grace is
                    there; we are disappointed and inefficient, and yet we can be happy in a perfection which may be
                    revealed at any moment, in the twinkling of an eye. It is like some secret link binding humanity
                    together, some  fraction of the rainbow hidden among the clouds
                    and the tears of life.
                Mrs. Kemble possessed to a rare degree the gift of ennobling that to which she turned her mind.
                    Kindness is comparatively commonplace, but that divine touch which makes others feel akin to
                    qualities greater than they are conscious of in themselves, was, I think, the virtue by which she
                    brought us all into subjection.
                
                
                
                THE END

                
            
            
        
        
            
            
                LITERARY BIOGRAPHIES  AND REMINISCENCES
                
                    Records of Tennyson, Ruskin, Browning. By ANNE RITCHIE. 
                        Illustrated. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Uncut Edges and
                        Gilt Top, $2 oo.
                    
                    Boswell's Life of Johnson, including Boswell's Journal of a
                        Tour to the Hebrides, and Johnson's Diary of a Journey into
                        North Wales. Edited by GEORGE BIRKBECK HILL, D.C.L.
                        6 volumes. 8vo, Cloth, Uncut Edges and Gilt Tops, 
                        $1o oo.
                    
                    Letters of Samuel Johnson, LL.D. Collected and Edited by
                    GEORGE BIRKBECK HILL, D.C.L. 2 volumes. 8vo, Cloth,
                    Uncut Edges and Gilt Tops, $7 50.
                    
                    The Correspondence of John Lothrop Motley, D.C.L. Ed-
                    ited by GEORGE WILLIAM CURTIS. With Portrait. 2 volumes.
                    Royal 8vo, Cloth, Uncut Edges and Gilt Tops, $7 oo; Sheep,
                    $8 oo; Half Calf, $11 5o.
                    
                    Letters of James Russell Lowell. Edited by CHARLES ELIOT
                    NORTON. With Three Portraits. 2 volumes. 8vo, Cloth,
                    Uncut Edges and Gilt Tops, $8 oo; Three-quarter Calf, $12 50.
                    
                    The Journal of Sir Walter Scott, 1825-1832. From the
                    Original Manuscript at Abbotsford. With Two Portraits and
                    Engraved Title-pages. 2 volumes. 8vo, Cloth, Uncut Edges
                    and Gilt Tops, $7 50; Half Calf, $12 oo. Popular Edition.
                    2 volumes in I. Crown 8vo, Cloth, $2 50.
                    
                    Autobiographical Notes of the Life of William Bell Scott.
                    Edited by Professor W. MINTO. Illustrated. 2 volumes. 8vo.
                    Cloth, Uncut Edges and Gilt Tops, $8 oo.
                    
                    Memoir of the Life of Laurence Oliphant and of Alice Oli-
                    phant, his wife. By MARGARET OLIPHANT 
                        W. OLIPHANT.
                    With Two Photogravure Portraits. 2 volumes. Crown 8vo,
                    Cloth, Uncut Edges and Gilt Tops, $7 oo.
                    
                    A Sketch of the Life and Times of the Rev. Sydney Smith,
                    M.A. By STUART J. REID. With Steel-plate Portraits, Illus-
                    trations, and Autograph Letter. 8vo, Cloth, $3 oo.
                    
                    Personal Recollections of Nathaniel Hawthorne. By 
                        HORATIO BRIDGE. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, 
                        Ornamental, $1 25.
                    
                    The Life, Letters, and Literary Remains of Edward Bul-
                    wer, Lord Lytton. By his Son, the EARL OF LYTTON 
                        ("Owen Meredith"). Volume I. (containing Vols. I. and II. of the
                    English Edition). Illustrated. I2mo, Cloth, $2 75.
                    
                    
                    
                    The Life and Letters of Lord Macaulay. By his Nephew,
                    GEORGE OTTO TREVELYAN, M. P. With Portrait on Steel.
                    Library Edition. 2 volumes. 8vo, Cloth, Uncut Edges and
                    Gilt. Tops, $5 oo; Sheep, $6 oo; Half Calf, $9 50. Popular
                    Edition. Complete in 1 volume, I2mo, Cloth, $1 75.
                    
                    Letters and Memorials of Jane Welsh Carlyle. Prepared
                    for Publication by THOMAS CARLYLE. Edited by JAMES AN-
                    THONY FROUDE. 12mo, Cloth, $1 oo.
                    
                    Life of Thomas Carlyle. By JAMES ANTHONY FROUDE, M.A.
                    2 volumes. Illustrated. I2mo, Cloth, $1 oo each.
                    
                    Thomas Carlyle. By M. D. CONWAY. Illustrated. I2mo,
                    Cloth, $1 oo.
                    
                    What I Remember. By THOMAS ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE. 2
                    volumes. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75 each.
                    
                    Memoirs of a Man of the World. Fifty Years of London Life.
                    By EDMUND YATES. With Portrait. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75.
                    
                    An Autobiography. By ANTHONY TROLLOPE. With Portrait.
                    12mo, Cloth, $1 25.
                    
                    Some Literary Recollections. By JAMES PAYN. With Por-
                    trait. 12mo, Cloth, $I oo.
                    
                    Charles Reade, D.C.L., Dramatist, Novelist, Journalist. By
                    CHARLES L. READE, and the Rev. COMPTON READE. With
                    Portrait. 12mo, Cloth, $1 25.
                    
                    George Eliot's Life, as Related in her Letters and Journals.
                    Arranged and Edited by her Husband J. W. CROSS. Portraits
                    and Illustrations. In 3 volumes. Library Edition, I2mo, Cloth,
                    $3 75; Half Calf, $9 oo. PopularEdition, I2mo, Cloth, $2 25.
                    Special Edition in 3 volumes, Half Cloth Binding, $2 oo.
                    
                    Autobiography of Sir Henry Taylor, 1800-1875. With Por-
                    trait. 2 volumes. 8vo, Cloth, $3 oo.
                    
                
                
                    PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, 
                    NEW YORK
                
                
                    The above works are for sale by all booksellers, or will be sent by the 
                    publishers, postage prepaid, to any part of the United States, Canada, or
                    Mexico, on receipt of the price.
                
            
         
    
