
     ----CITATION----
        Borgo, Mary Elizabeth. Introduction to Snapdragons. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2012).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/vwwp/VAB8044_intro
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
                Introduction to Snapdragons
                By Mary Borgo
                 This book edition of 
                    “Snapdragons” and
                        “Old Father Christmas” (printed in 1888)
                presents these Christmas stories with fanciful illustrations by Gordon Browne. The
                tone of the tales is remarkably lighthearted compared to often heavy-handed
                children's literature popular at the time. Readers acquainted with Ewing's
                work will notice familiar figures, the bachelor and the faithful dog, as well as her
                creative use of proverbs. Taken as a pair, these stories describe two types of
                children on Santa's list: the naughty and the nice. 
             The family in “Snapdragons” are the Skratdjs, who (as their name suggests) squabble
                and bicker with each other constantly. This verbal biting and scratching turns
                physical when Harry meets the Snapdragons, fantastical emanations from a Christmas
                dish of raisins soaked in brandy set alight to crisp them. Transformed by this
                fantastical encounter, Harry resolves to stop his contentious ways. The moral
                message, however, is not just aimed at children. Ewing uses the framework of the
                children's story to approach very adult topics as well, such as marriage and
                temperance. Both the children and the parents begin the tale by discussing marital
                roles. The dialogue between Harry and his sister Polly, for example, proposes two
                views of marriage: one in which the man dominates, and the other in which the woman
                controls. Ewing does not settle this debate, but rather portrays the very battle for
                power within marriage as negative. The Skradtj parents, meanwhile, are no models
                themselves. Their house guests and their hosts are shocked by their bickering. And
                the adverse effects of the uncontrollable tongue are redoubled by the negative
                consequences of intemperance. Harry's delight in watching the brandy burn on the
                dish of raisins (to make the “snapdragons” that inspire the story's fantasy) turns
                into a nightmare when he tries to add more alcohol to the plate. This portrayal of
                the untamable tongue and the unquenchable thirst very effectively encourage children
                to behave with moderation.
             In contrast to the Skratdjs are Godfather Garbel and his sister Patti in “Old Father
                Christmas.” Models of Christmas spirit and cheer, they exhibit goodness, kindness,
                and hospitality. the narrative encourages children to emulate their manners through
                positive reinforcement of this behavior. The children have a strong respect for
                their parents, a resilient work ethic, and an exceptional knowledge of the Bible.
                The adults in this story play a very different role from those in “Snapdragons.” The
                parents uphold the magic of Christmas by using a case of mistaken identity to
                disguise their role as gift-givers. While the children have tea with a poor old man
                whom they have mistakenly taken for Father Christmas, the parents disappear to the
                parlor, and reappear only to announce that Father Christmas has decorated the tree.
                Their dedication keeps the spirit of Christmas unspoiled. 
             In both of these tales, Ewing uses bachelor male figures to guide the children and
                to give them moral instruction. The “Hot-Tempered Gentleman” of “Snapdragons” warns
                the children of what will come if they do not cease their bickering. His personality
                does not line up to his nickname: unrelated by blood to the Skratdjs, he bears it
                perhaps to ease his insertion into this family sphere of endless squabblers.
                Godfather Garbel, on the other hand, relates tales of his own childhood that model
                good behavior, and his memories of his own godmother reveal the power of the outside
                adult figure to tell stories for the family and, through these stories, to reshape
                it--much as Ewing herself, as a writer, and as “Aunt Judy,” may have hoped to
                influence her wide circle of readers through her tales. These figures occupy a space
                that is neither completely inside or outside the family circle, allowing them to
                connect with children at their own level whilst retaining some kind of of detached
                moral authority. 
            The smorgasbord of proverbs Ewing incorporates into her stories, many of which are
                featured in this edition as running titles, also underlines their moral value. These
                sayings are not exclusively English, but also French, German, and Danish. Almost all
                of them bear spelling and syntactical similarities to entries in Henry Bohn's 1857
                compilation of European proverbs, A polyglot of foreign proverbs: comprising French,
                Italian, German, Dutch, Spanish, Portuguese, and Danish, with English translations
                and a general index. With the wealth of continental European maxims his work opened
                up to her, Ewing draws upon their strong storytelling traditions to form her own
                distinctive style. 
        
    
