

       ----CITATION----
        Brevier Legislative Reports, Volume VI (1863). Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/law/brevier/VAA8558-06
       ----FULL TEXT----
        
            
                  
                  
                        
                               BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS: EMBRACING
                                    SHORT-HAND SKETCHES OF THE JOURNALS AND DEBATES OF THE General
                                    Assembly of the State of Indiana.
                               Meeting in the Capitol, in the Town of
                                    Indianapolis, in regular session under the Constitutional
                                    provision, January 8th, 1863.
                        
                        By ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER, Reporters.
                        
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                VOL. II
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              South Bend, Indiana.
                              PRINTED IN THE SOUTH BEND FORUM JOB OFFICE.
                              1863.
                        
                  
                  
                  
                        
                              Resolved. That the Doorkeeper be directed to contract with W.H.
                                    DRAPIER, for six hundred copies of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                    REPORTS being the usual number furnished for the use of the
                                    Senate every session since. 1857the same to be sent by express,
                                    an equal number of copies to each Senator, as soon as possible
                                    after the adjournment of the session; Provided, said Reports
                                    shall not cost more than one dollar per copy; that one copy for
                                    each Senator be bound, and that said Reports shall not be paid
                                    for till printed.--Senate Journal, February 27, 1863.
                        
                        
                              Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be directed to contract with W, H.D
                                    RAPIER, for six hundred copies of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                    REPORTS being the usual number furnished for the use of the
                                    House every session since 1857the same to be sent by express,
                                    and equal number of copies to each member, as soon as possible
                                    after the adjournment of the session, Provided, said Reports
                                    shall not cost more than one dollar per copy: that one copy for
                                    each member be bound, and that said Reports shall not be paid
                                    tor till printed.--House Journal, March 7, I863.
                        
                        
                              Postoffice address of W.H. DRAPIER, South Bend, St. Joseph county.
                                    Indiana.
                        
                  

                  

                  
                        In Senate, 42d General Assembly, Indianapolis.
                        
                              DIAGRAM of the INDIANA SENATE CHAMBER
                              Engraved for the Brevier Legislative Reports, Vol. VI.
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                        In the 42d General Assembly, Indianapolis, 1863.
                        
                              HALL OF REPRESENTATIVES of the PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
                                    INDIANA
                              Engraved for the Brevier Legislative Reports, Volume VI.
                        
                  
                  
            
            

                  

                  
                        SKETCHES OF THE JOURNALS AND DEBATES OF
                              The 42d General Assembly. 
                         Convened in the Capitol, Regular Session, in the Town of
                              Indianapolis, 1863.
                        
                               INDIANA LEGISLATURE. IN SENATE. 
                              
                                    THURSDAY, January 8, 1863.
                              
                              This being the day prescribed by the Constitution of the State of
                                    Indiana for the regular biennial meeting of the Legislature,
                                    Senators assembled in the Senate Chamber of the Capitol at ten
                                    o'clock, a.m., and were called to order by THOMAS M.
                                    BROWNE. Esq,. Principal Secretary of the last session.
                              Senators holding over answered to their names as follows:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  From the counties of Clark and
                                                  Scott--Charles P. Ferguson.
                                                  From the counties of Delaware and
                                                  Blackford--Walter March.
                                                  From the counties of Elkhart and
                                                  Lagrange--Chas. L. Murray.
                                                  From the counties of Fayette and
                                                  Union--Benjamin F. Claypool.
                                                  From the county of Fountain--Henry Campbell. 
                                                  From the counties of Gibson, Dubois and
                                                  Pike--Thomas Shoulders.
                                                  From the counties of Hamilton and
                                                  Tipton--George B. Grubb.
                                                  From the counties of Hendricks and
                                                  Boone--Solomon Blair.
                                                  From the county of Henry--Joshua II.
                                                  Mellett.
                                                  From the counties of Jennings and
                                                  Jackson--Medy W. Shields.
                                                  From the counties of Johnson and
                                                  Morgan--Franklin Landers.
                                                  From the counties of Laporte and
                                                  Starke--Abram Teegarden.
                                                  From the counties of Miami and
                                                  Fulton--Daniel R. Bearss.
                                                  From the county of Montgomery--Michael G.
                                                  White.
                                                  From the counties of Noble, DeKalb and
                                                  Steuben--Timothy R. Dickinson.
                                                  From the counties of Putnam and
                                                  Clay--Archibald Johnston.
                                                  From the county of Rush--Edward H. M.
                                                  Berry.
                                                  From the counties of Shelby and
                                                  Hancock--Martin M. Ray.
                                                  From the counties of Vigo and
                                                  Sullivan--Henry K. Wilson.
                                                  From the counties of Washington and
                                                  Harrison--Simeon K. Wolfe.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              Senators elect were then called, and the following appeared,
                                    presented their credentials, and took the oath of office at the
                                    hand of Judge SAMUEL E. PERKINS of the Supreme Court, (which is
                                    in the following words: "You and each of you do
                                    solemnly swear that you will support the Constitution of the
                                    United States and the Constitution of the State of Indiana, and
                                    that you will faithfully discharge your duty as Senators during
                                    your continuance in office, so help you God.")
                                    to-wit:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  From the counties of Adams, Jay and
                                                  Wells--Geo.S. Brown.
                                                  From the county of Allen--Pliny
                                                  Hoagland.
                                                  From the county of Bartholomew--Francis T.
                                                  Hord.
                                                  From the counties of Benton, Warren and
                                                  White--Alfred Reed.
                                                  from the counties of Carroll and
                                                  Clinton--Learner McClurg.
                                                  From the counties of Cass, Howard and
                                                  Pulaski--John Davis.
                                                  From the counties of Crawford and
                                                  Orange--Henry Jenkins.
                                                  From the county of Dearborn--James W.
                                                  Gaff.
                                                  From the county of Decatur--J. D.
                                                  Pleak.
                                                  From the county of Floyd--Augustus
                                                  Bradley.
                                                  From the county of Franklin--Thomas
                                                  Gifford.
                                                  From the counties of Huntington and
                                                  Whilley--A.J. Douglass.
                                                  From the counties of Jasper, Lake and
                                                  Newton--Ezra Wright.
                                                  From the county of Jefferson--John L.
                                                  Mansfield.
                                                  From the counties of Kosciusko and
                                                  Wabash--Wm. C. Graves.
                                                  From the counties of Knox and Daviess--James
                                                  D. Williams.
                                                  From the counties of Lawrence and
                                                  Martin--Thos. R. Cobb.
                                                  From the county of Marion--John C.
                                                  New.
                                                  From the counties of Madison and Grant--John
                                                  D.Marshall.
                                                  From the counties of Monroe and Brown--Paris
                                                  C.Dunning.
                                                  From the counties of Ohio and
                                                  Switzerland--Alex. C. Downey.
                                                  From the counties of Owen and Greene--GW.
                                                  Moore
                                                  From the counties of Parke and
                                                  Vermillion--Oliver P. Davis.
                                                  From the counties of Perry, Spencer and
                                                  Warrick--Benjamin L. Fuller.
                                                  From the counties of Posey and
                                                  Vanderburg--Geo. W. Finch.
                                                  From the county of Randolph--Thomas M.
                                                  Browne,(to fill a vacancy.)
                                                  From the county of Ripley--Wm. L.
                                                  Hartley.
                                                  From the county of Tippecanoe--Moses C.
                                                  Culver.
                                                  From the county of Wayne--Othniel
                                                  Beeson.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              

                              

                              
                                    ORGANIZATION.
                                    On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, it was
                                    Ordered, That the Senate now proceed to
                                          election of a President to preside over the deliberations
                                          of this body.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS nominated PARIS C. DENNING, of Monroe.
                                    Mr. MELLETT nominated OTHNIEL BEESON of Wayne.
                                    No other nominations being made--
                                    The Secretary called the roll and the result of the first
                                          ballot was as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Senators voting for Mr. Dunning were--
                                                   Messrs. Bradley,Brown of Wells, Cobb, Davis of
                                                  Cass, Douglass, Downey, Ferguson, Finch, Fuller,
                                                  Gaff, Gifford, Graves, Hartley, Hoagland, Hord,
                                                  Jenkins, Johnston, Landers, McClurg, Marshall,
                                                  Moore, Ray, Shields, Shoulders, Williams, Wilson
                                                  n, Wolfe--27.
                                                  Senators voting for Mr. Beeson, were--
                                                  Messrs. Bearss, Berry, Blair, Browne, of
                                                  Randolph, Campbell, Claypool, Culver, Davis, of
                                                  Parke, Dickinson, Grubb, Mansfield, March,
                                                  Mellett, Murray, New, Pleak, Reed, Teegarden,
                                                  White, Wright--20.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. Dunning having received a majority of all the votes cast,
                                          was declared by the Secretary, to be duly elected
                                          President of the Senate, and Senators Reckon and Williams
                                          were appointed to conduct him to the chair.
                                    The PRESIDENT, having been conducted to the Chair, said :
                                          Gentlemen of the Senate, in return for the distinguished
                                          compliment just conferred upon me by this election to the
                                          Presidency of the Senate, I promise you, in the discharge
                                          of the arduous and responsible duties which the
                                          Constitution imposes, all the ability of which I am
                                          possessed.
                                    The Senate of Indiana has assembled on this occasion under
                                          inauspicious circumstances. Our country which was once
                                          happy and united--which was prosperous, which was the
                                          greatest among the nations of the earth is now involved in
                                          civil war the like of which the history of the world gives
                                          no account. The Constitution of the United States has been
                                          imperilled, the integrity of the Union has been lost, and
                                          every attempt which a powerful people can make for the
                                          purpose of prostrating this government is now going on.
                                          These things should admonish us, that in our deliberations
                                          we should have harmony and co operation--that we should
                                          throw aside partizanship and act as statesmen. I trust
                                          that the legislation of this session will be characterized
                                          by statesmanship, and by the enactment of such laws and
                                          the expression of such opinions as will tend to put down
                                          this rebellion as will tend to uphold the Constitution of
                                          the country and to the reconstruction of this government.
                                          I promise you, Senators, co-operation on my part, and I
                                          trust there will be co-operation on the part of the every
                                          member of this body.
                                    Your duties are responsible--I repeat, your duties are
                                          responsible: Your constituents are looking to you with
                                          anxiety and not only your constituency, but the people of
                                          the world are looking to the legislation of Indiana as
                                          well as to the legislation of every loyal State of this
                                          Union to see what direction that legislation may take.
                                    I trust, I say, that our legislation may be characterized by
                                          such a spirit and by such tendencies as will restore peace
                                          and harmony to this once glorious country, but now divided
                                          and now distracted. That such may be the result of our
                                          legislation, if I may be permitted, I pray Almighty God
                                          who rules the every destiny of men, as well as the
                                          destinies of nations, to inspire us with the proper spirit
                                          for the station we occupy. I thank you, gentlemen, kindly,
                                          for the honor you have conferred upon me.
                                    I can say upon this occasion truly to my Republican and to my
                                          democratic fellow-senators, that I take this place without
                                          ever having uttered a word directly or indirectly, by way
                                          of seeking the intervention of any friend, for my election
                                          to the seat you have given me.
                                    The Senate pursued the organization.
                                    MR. COBB nominated for Principal Secretary James H. Vawter,
                                          of Jennings.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL nominated Azel P. Newkirk, of Fayette.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Mr. Vawter received 27 votes, and Mr. Newkirk
                                                  22 votes. Mr. Vawter was declared duly elected.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. WILSON nominated for Assistant Secretary Samuel R. Hamill
                                          of Sullivan.
                                    Mr. MARCH nominated John R. Cravens of Marion.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Mr. Hamill received 27 votes, and Mr. Cravens
                                                  22. Mr. Hamill was declared duly elected.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. SHIELDS nominated for Doorkeeper W.H. Montgomery of
                                          Martin.
                                    Mr. BERRY nominated Samuel G. Thomson of Wabash.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Mr. Montgomery received 27 votes and Mr.
                                                  Thomson 22. Mr. Montgomery was declared duly
                                                  elected.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. WILSON nominated for Assistant Doorkeeper Bruce Shields
                                          of Jackson.
                                    Mr. BROWNE of Randolph nominated Frederick F. Needham of
                                          Randolph.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Mr. Shields received 27 votes and Mr. Needham
                                                  21. Mr. Shields was declared duly elected.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    As each office was elected he forward and was sworn by
                                          Solomon Claypool, Judge of the Sixth Judicial
                                          District.
                                    On motion by Mr. RAY, it was--
                                    Ordered, That the Secretary inform the
                                          House of the organization of the Senate.
                              
                              
                                    PARTIZAN DECLARATION.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The suppression of
                                                  the rebellion, the restoration and preservation of
                                                  the Union of all the states is the great and
                                                  paramount object of all loyal citizens. Therefore,
                                                  be it

                                                  

                                                  >Resolved, That the members
                                                  of this Legislature will vote for no man for
                                                  office who is not in favor of a vigorous
                                                  prosecution of the war, and who is not unalterably
                                                  opposed to the severance of any State or States
                                                  from this Union.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. COBB moved to postpone any action on the resolution until
                                          next Tuesday week.
                                    Mr. MARCH had not come here to shirk from any duty to avoid
                                          or dodge the-expression of any opinion. While he had no
                                          disposition to pass judgment in advance, upon rumor, as to
                                          the loyalty of any candidate to he presented, yet it could
                                          not be denied that there were rumors out, and it was
                                          proper that the Senate should now define its views. He was
                                          prepared to vote for it now, but would consent to the
                                          postponement of the resolution until members could have
                                          time for consideration.
                                    Mr. WOLFE had no objection to a resolution on that subject,
                                          properly worded. There were some things in it that were
                                          proper, but there were other subjects that orient to be in
                                          that are not.

                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL thought there was nothing in the resolution that
                                          ought not to meet with a proper response now. If gentlemen
                                          wished to amend it, now was the time. Its object was that
                                          when it became necessary to elect officers none but those
                                          of undoubted loyalty should be voted for.
                                    Mr. McCLURG said the resolution should he more comprehensive
                                          in its wording. It should be definite and positive in its
                                          sentiments. No one could object to the war, if it be not
                                          prosecuted in a profligate manner.
                                    He withdrew his motion upon the suggestion of--
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS who moved to refer the resolution to the
                                                Committee on Federal
                                          Relations.
                                    Mr. MELLETT was not uneasy about being gagged. He was ready
                                          to vote for the resolution because it was a simple
                                          proposition and right in itself.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD, as one of the minority, would throw no
                                          obstacle in the way of the majority, but this question was
                                          a simple expression, and if gentlemen were willing to
                                          postpone elections until an expression was had on this
                                          resolution he would consent to postpone action on it now.
                                          He offered an amendment providing that the present
                                          Legislature shall not enter upon the election of United
                                          States Senators until action is had upon the subject
                                          embraced in Mr. Claypool's resolution.
                                    The PRESIDENT (Mr. Johnson in the chair.) deemed the
                                          amendment out of order.
                                    Mr. RAY advocated the reference to the Committee on
                                                Federal Relations. The resolution was not
                                          fall enough, and should go there to be perfected. There
                                          were many patriotic and loyal Senators who were in favor
                                          of a vigorous prosecution of the war, who thought the
                                          olive branch should accompany the sword. Others were
                                          satisfied that war alone could never restore the Union. He
                                          could assure Senators that, no man whose loyalty had a
                                          shade upon it would ever be elected to any high or
                                          responsible office.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL, to test the question, made an ineffectual
                                          motion to lay the motion to refer on the table--yeas 22,
                                          nays 27.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  The motion to refer was then agreed to--yeas
                                                  27, nays 22.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the present Legislature enter
                                                  upon no election of officers, until the resolution
                                                  denning the position of the nominees for office,
                                                  upon, the questions involved in the resolution,
                                                  offered by the Senator from Fayette [Mr. Claypool]
                                                  shall have been acted upon.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  The resolution was rejected by yeas 23, nays
                                                  26, as follows:
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bearss,
                                                  Beeson, Berry, Blair, Browne, of Randolph,
                                                  Campbell, Claypool, Culver, Davis, of Parke,
                                                  Dickinson, Downey, Graves, Grubb, Mansfield,
                                                  March, Mellett, Murray, New, Pleak, Reed,
                                                  Teegarden, White, Wright--23.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bradley,
                                                  Brown, of Wells, Cobb, Davis, of Cass, Douglass,
                                                  Dunning, Ferguson, Finch, Fuller, Gaff, Giffod,
                                                  Hartley, Hoagland, Hord, Jenkins, Johnston,
                                                  Landers, McClurg, Marshall, Moore, Ray, Shields,
                                                  Shoulders, Williams, Wilson, Wolfe--26
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEWSPAPERS.
                                    On motion of Mr. COBB, it was--
                                    Ordered, That the Doorkeeper be directed to
                                          contract for and place upon the desks of Senators and
                                          officers of the Senate, three copies of the Daily Sentinel and Journal, Provided they report and publish the
                                          proceedings of the Legislature in full: two of the
                                          aforesaid paper, to be wrapped and Stamped ready for
                                          mailing.
                                    A message was received from the House announcing the
                                          organization of that body.
                              
                              
                                    NOTICE TO THE GOVERNOR.
                                    On motion by Mr. RAY, it was--
                                    >Ordered, That a Committee of three be
                                          appointed to act with a like Committee on the part of the
                                          House to wait upon his Excellency the Governor, inform,
                                          him of the organization of the General Assembly, and
                                          inquire of him when it will be convenient for him to
                                          deliver his Message to the General Assembly.
                                    The PRESIDENT made the Committee to consist of Messrs. Ray,
                                          Hoagland and Davis, of Parke.
                              

                              

                              
                                    8TH OF JANUARY.
                                    Mr. MARCH offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That on this day
                                                  rendered ever memorable and glorious by the
                                                  victory achieved at New Orleans over the trained
                                                  armies of a foreign foe, by American citizen
                                                  soldiers under the lead of Andrew Jackson, we here
                                                  renew our pledges of loyalty to the national
                                                  constitution and Government, and of unalterable
                                                  devotion to the Union of all the States, and adopt
                                                  as our motto the living words of the hero of New
                                                  Orleans: "The Union, it must and shall be
                                                  preserved."
                                                  Resolved, That in honor of
                                                  the day, and of the living and departed heroes
                                                  whose deeds have made their names immortal, the
                                                  Senate do now adjourn until to-morrow morning at
                                                  nine o'clock.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion of Mr. RAY, all after the word
                                          "adjourn," in the last resolution, was
                                          stricken out, and the resolutions as amended were
                                          adopted--yeas 28, nays 19.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The Senate was called to order at 2 o'clock.
                                    On motion of Mr. MOORE a call of the Senate was ordered and
                                          being taken 29 members answered to their names.
                                    There being no quorum present--
                                    Mr. BROWNS, of Randolph, hoped that the Senate would excuse
                                          the Republican Senators who were absent. It was the
                                          anniversary of the battle of New Orleans, and the absent
                                          gentlemen desired to celebrate it with appropriate
                                          ceremonies.
                                    Mr. COBB stated that the Republican Senators would not be
                                          present this afternoon. Of this he was well assured. He
                                          therefore moved that the Senate adjourn, until nine
                                          o'clock to-morrow morning.
                                    The motion was agreed to.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              THURSDAY, January 8, 1863.
                              This being the day required by the Constitution for the biennial
                                    meeting of the Legislature, at 10 o'clock, the members
                                    elect of the House of Representatives of the forty-second
                                    General Assembly of the State of Indiana were in their places in
                                    the Hall, and Henry Crawford, Esq., Clerk of the former House of
                                    Representatives, called to order.
                              Members of the House of Representatives came forward to the area in
                                    front of the table & received the oath to
                                    "support the Constitution of the United States and the
                                    Constitution of this State, and to discharge their duties
                                    faithfully as members of the General Assembly of the State of
                                    Indiana," presenting their certificates of election, as
                                    follows:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  From the county of Adams--P. N.
                                                  Collins.
                                                  From the county of Allen--Ochmig Bird, John
                                                  P. Shoaff.
                                                  From the county of Bartholomew--O. H. P.
                                                  Abbett.
                                                  From the county of Boone--Sherman
                                                  Hostetter.
                                                  From the counties of Boone and
                                                  Hendricks--Thos. J. Cason.
                                                  From the county of Brown--Stephen V.
                                                  Cook.
                                                  From the county of Carroll--John B.
                                                  Milroy.
                                                  From the county of Cass--Charles B.
                                                  Lasselle.
                                                  From the county of Clark--Jonas G.
                                                  Howard.
                                                  From the county of Clinton--Cornelius J.
                                                  Miller.
                                                  From the county of Clay--Adam C.
                                                  Veach.
                                                  From the county of Crawford--absent.
                                                  From the county of Daviess--N. S.
                                                  Given.
                                                  From the county of Dearborn--O. F. Roberts,
                                                  Alf. Bregan.
                                                  From the county of Decatur--David R. Van
                                                  Buskirk.
                                                  From the county of Delaware--Alf.
                                                  Kilgore.
                                                  From the county of DeKalb--Miles
                                                  Waterman.
                                                  From the county of Dubois--B. R.
                                                  Kemp.
                                                  From the county of Elkhart--Matthew
                                                  Rippey.
                                                  From the counties of Elkhart and
                                                  Lagrange--Amos Davis.
                                                  From the counties of Fayette and
                                                  Union--Russell B. Perry.
                                                  From the county of Fountain--Samuel
                                                  Hatfield.
                                                  From the county of Floyd--Geo. V.
                                                  Howk.
                                                  From the county of Franklin--Redin
                                                  Osborn.
                                                  From the county of Fulton--N. G.
                                                  Shaffer.
                                                  From the county of Gibson--Silas M.
                                                  Holcomb.
                                                  From the county of Grant--Henley
                                                  James.
                                                  From the county of Greene--John
                                                  Humphreys.
                                                  From the county of Harrison--John
                                                  Lemmon.
                                                  From the county of Hancock--Geo. Y.
                                                  Atkison.
                                                  From the counties of Hancock and
                                                  Shelby--James L. Mason.
                                                  From the counties of Hamilton and
                                                  Tipton--James O'Brien.
                                                  From the county of Henry--Charles D.
                                                  Morgan.
                                                  From the county of Hendricks--James M.
                                                  Gregg.
                                                  From the county of Howard--J. M.
                                                  Leeds.
                                                  From the counties of Huntington and
                                                  Whitley--Samuel McGauchey.
                                                  From the county of Jackson--Jason B. Brown. 
                                                  From the counties of Jasper and
                                                  Pulaski--Paris Robinson.
                                                  From the county of Jennings--J. W.
                                                  Hutchings.
                                                  From the county of Jefferson--David C.
                                                  Branh, J.L. Roe.
                                                  From the county of Johnson--A. V.
                                                  Pendleton.
                                                  From the county of Jay--Samuel A.
                                                  Shoaff.
                                                  From the counties of Johnson and
                                                  Morgan--Thos.W. Woolen.
                                                  From the county of Kosciusko--Henry J.
                                                  Byerle.
                                                  From the counties of Kosciusko and
                                                  Wabash--Jos. Marshall.
                                                  From the county of Knox--William E.
                                                  Niblack.
                                                  From the county of Lagrange--Francis P
                                                  Griffith.
                                                  From the county of Lake--D. K.
                                                  Pettibone.
                                                  From the county of Laporte--James Forrester,
                                                  W.W. Higgins.
                                                  From the county of Lawrence--Nathaniel
                                                  Williams.
                                                  From the county of Madison--Richard
                                                  Lake.
                                                  From the county of Marion--John S.
                                                  Tarkington, W. H. Kendrick (contested.)
                                                  From the counties of Marshall and
                                                  Starke--M..A O. Packard.
                                                  From the county of Monroe--Samuel H.
                                                  Buskirk.
                                                  From the county of Montgomery--James F.
                                                  Harney.
                                                  From the county of Morgan--J. J.
                                                  Johnson.
                                                  From the county of Martin--John R.
                                                  O'Brien.
                                                  From the county of Miami--R. F. Donaldson. 
                                                  From the county of Noble--Timothy
                                                  Baker.
                                                  From the counties of Ohio and
                                                  Switzerland--R.N. Lamb.
                                                  From the county of Orange--George H.
                                                  Hon.
                                                  From the county of Owen--Jacob V.
                                                  Wolfe.
                                                  From the county of Parke--Casper Budd. 
                                                  From the county of Pike--Win. H. De
                                                  Bruler.
                                                  From the county of Perry--James
                                                  Harden.
                                                  From the county of Porter L. A. Cass.
                                                  From the county of Posey E. M.
                                                  Spencer.
                                                  From the county of Putnam--Austin M. Puett,
                                                  Geo.W. Priest.
                                                  From the county of Ripley--Edwin P.
                                                  Ferris.
                                                  From the county of Randolph--John H.
                                                  Moorman.
                                                   From the county of Rush--Win. S
                                                  Hall.
                                                  From the county of Scott--Daniel
                                                  Blocher.
                                                  From the county of Spencer--James W.
                                                  Lemmon.
                                                  From the county of Sullivan--Stephen G.
                                                  Burton.
                                                  From the county of Shelby--Jacob
                                                  Mutz.
                                                  From the county of Steuben--Enos B.
                                                  Noyes.
                                                  From the county of St. Joseph--Andrew
                                                  Anderson.
                                                  From the county of Tippecanoe--Joseph M.
                                                  Hersheyand Samuel Mustard.
                                                  From the counties of Vanderburg and
                                                  Posey--John A. Reitz.

                                                  

                                                  From the county of Vanderburg--Thos. E.
                                                  Garvin.
                                                  From the county of
                                                  Vermillion--absent.
                                                  From the county of Vigo--Bayless W. Hanna,
                                                  John Kemp.
                                                  From the county of Wabash--John L.
                                                  Stone.
                                                  From the county of Warren--Benjamin F.
                                                  Gregory.
                                                  From the county of Washington--Jamison
                                                  Lee.
                                                  From the counties of Washington and
                                                  Harrison--Aaron L. Hardin.
                                                  From the county of Wayne--Israel Woodruff,
                                                  Oliver T. Jones, E. B. Newman. 
                                                  From the counties of Wells and
                                                  Blackford--Geo. S. Howell.
                                                  From the counties of White and Benton--John
                                                  T. Richardson.
                                                  From the county of Warrick--Abram
                                                  Chambers.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    ORGANIZATION.
                                    On motion of Mr. NIBLACK, the House proceeded to the election
                                          of Speaker.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK nominated Samuel H. Buskirk, of Monroe.
                                    Mr. WOODRUFF nominated D. C. Branham, of Jefferson.
                                    The ballot resulted as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Those who voted for Mr. Buskirk. were--
                                                  Messrs. Abbett, Bird, Blocher, Bregan, Brown,
                                                  Burton, Collins, Cook,De Bruler, Donaldson,
                                                  Ferris, Garvin, Given, Hall, Hanna, Harden, of
                                                  Washington, Hardin, of Perry, Harney, Hatfield,
                                                  Holcomb, Hon, Howard, Howell, Howk, Humphreys,
                                                  Kemp, of Dubois, Kemp, of Vigo, Lake,
                                                  Lasselle,Lee, Lemmon, of Harrison, Lemmon, of
                                                  Spencer, Mason, McGauchey, Miller, Milroy, Mutz,
                                                  Niblack, O'Brien, of Martin, Osborn,
                                                  Packard, Pendleton, Priest, Puett, Reitz,
                                                  Richardson, Rippey, Roberts, Shaffer, Shoaff, of
                                                  Allen, Shoaff, of Jay, Spencer Veach, Waterman,
                                                  Williams, Wolf and Woolen--57.
                                                  Those who voted for Mr. Branham were--
                                                  Messrs. Anderson, Atkison, Baker, Budd, Byerle,
                                                  Cason, Cass, Chambers, Davis, Forester, Gregg,
                                                  Gregory, Griffith, Hershey, Higgins, Hostetter,
                                                  Hutchings, James, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick,
                                                  Kilgore, Lamb, Leeds, Marshall,Moorman, Morgan,
                                                  Mustard, Newman, Noyes, O'Brien, of
                                                  Hamilton, Perry, Pettibone, Robinson, Roe, Stone,
                                                  Tarkington, Van Buskirk and Woodruff--39.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. Buskirk was declared elected, and was conducted to the
                                          chair by Messrs. Niblack and Branham.
                                    The SPEAKER said:
                                    Gentlemen--I shall endeavor, by a prompt,
                                          faithful and impartial discharge of the varied, arduous
                                          and responsible duties of the Chair, to make to you some
                                          slight return for the high and distinguished honor that
                                          you have conferred upon me, by selecting me to preside
                                          over your deliberations. I fully appreciate the
                                          responsibility that you have imposed upon me, and I
                                          earnestly solicit your support and co-operation.
                                    I confidently trust, that at a time like the present, when
                                          our once united,happy, peaceful and prosperous country is
                                          distracted, divided and involved in civil war--when the
                                          Constitution, the Union of the States and the liberties of
                                          the people are imperilled--when the land is filled with
                                          mourning--when a hundred thousand of the brave and
                                          patriotic sons of our beloved State are exposed to the
                                          dangers, hardships and privations of the tented
                                          field--when the people are embarrassed with individual
                                          indebtedness and oppressed with taxation--when our
                                          financial, commercial, agricultural and industrial
                                          pursuits are deranged--and when our country demands our
                                          wisest, best and most patriotic efforts, that we, the
                                          honored and trusted Representatives of the sovereign
                                          people, will not be influenced and controlled by local,
                                          personal, selfish and partizan considerations, but that we
                                          will act the part of statesmen and patriots, and will take
                                          an enlarged, comprehensive and national view of all
                                          questions, affecting the interest, honor and prosperity of
                                          our common country.
                                    Gentlemen, the House is now ready for further business.
                                    On motion by Mr. BIRD, the House proceeded to the election of
                                          Principal Clerk.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB, nominated A. T. Whittlesey, of Vanderburg.
                                    Mr. VAN BUSKIRK nominated Henry Crawford, of Floyd.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  The whole number of votes cast was 98; Mr.
                                                  Whittlesey received 59 votes; Mr. Crawford, 39
                                                  votes. Mr. Whittlesey was declared elected.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    A message from the Senate was received by the hand of W. H.
                                          DRAPIER, Esq., Assistant Secretary of the last session.
                                          announcing that the Senate had completed its organization
                                          and was ready to proceed to legislative business.
                                    On motion by Mr. FERRIS the House proceeded to the election
                                          of Assistant Clerk.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB nominated J. J. Davis, of Fulton.
                                    Mr. BYERLE nominated Oliver Musselman, of Kosciusko.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Whole number of votes, 97; Mr. Davis received
                                                  59; Mr. Musselman, 38. Mr. Davis was declared duly
                                                  elected.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. OSBORN, the House proceeded to the election
                                          of Doorkeeper.
                                    Mr. HALL, nominated Benedict Burns, of Rush.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH nominated Elisha B. Spellman, of Lagrange.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Whole number of votes, 96; Burns received 61
                                                  votes; Spellman 35. Mr. Burns received a majority
                                                  of the votes cast, and was declared duly
                                                  elected,
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. NIBLACK, the House proceeded to the election
                                          of Sergeant-at-Arms.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Mr. HANNA nominated Michael Griffith of Vigo,
                                                  who was elected without opposition--receiving 62
                                                  votes, blank 24.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    The Doorkeeper received his oath of office at the hand of the
                                          Speaker; the other officers received their oath at the
                                          hand of Solomon Claypool, Judge of the sixth Judicial
                                          District.
                                    On motion by Mr. NIBLACK, it was--
                                    Ordered, That the Senate be informed ot the
                                          organization of the House.
                              
                              
                                    PARTIZAN DECLARATION.
                                    Mr. JONES offered a resolution identical with the one offered
                                          by Mr. Clay-  pool in
                                          the Senate the same hour. (See pages 8 and 9 of these
                                          Reports.)
                                    Mr. ROBERTS urged the reference of the resolution to the
                                                Committee on Federal Relations.
                                          He endorsed the resolution, but this was not the proper
                                          time for its introduction.
                                    Mr. ATKISON hoped a square vote would be taken on the
                                          resolution, and that it would pass.
                                    Mr. MILLER demanded the previous question, which was
                                          sustained, and under Its operation the resolution was
                                          referred by yeas 58, nays 38--a strict party vote.
                              
                              
                                    ARBITRARY ARRESTS.
                                    Mr. HANNA offered the following resolution which was
                                          adopted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The Secretary of
                                                  War of the United States, in his late official
                                                  report has declared that the political arrests
                                                  that have been made in the various States were
                                                  made by the advice, and with the consent of the
                                                  several Governors thereof, therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That his
                                                  Excellency, Governor Oliver P. Morton, be
                                                  requested at an early day, to furnish this House
                                                  with the facts in relation to the political
                                                  arrests that have been made throughout the State
                                                  of Indiana.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. BROWN. If not out of order I desire to give notice that I
                                          will at an early day, or as soon as an opportunity affords
                                          Introduce a resolution or resolutions asking that a
                                          special committee be raised with power to send for persons
                                          and papers and compel attendance, whose duty it will be to
                                          ascertain the number of political arrests that have been
                                          made in the State of Indiana, and report the character of
                                          the same to this House, and also to report by bill, or
                                          otherwise, the proper and necessary legislation to prevent
                                          such outrages, as in my opinion they are, from being
                                          committed in the future.
                              
                              
                                    SOLDIERS VOTE.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH offered a resolution directing the
                                                Judiciary Committee to enquire as
                                          to the expediency of amending the election law so as to
                                          allow soldiers serving in the field the privilege of
                                          voting, which was adopted.
                              
                              
                                    TO WAIT ON THE GOVERNOR.
                                    Mr. MOORMAN offered a resolution which was adopted,
                                          appointing a joint committee of the House and Senate to
                                          in-form the Governor of the organization of the
                                          Assembly.
                                    Messrs. Moorman, Branham and Hanna were appointed such
                                          committee on the part of the House.
                              
                              
                                    ELECTION OF U. S. SENATORS.
                                    Mr. MILLER offered a resolution providing for a joint
                                          convention for the election of United States Senators at 2
                                          p.m. to-morrow.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM objected. He wanted a little time to look around.
                                          Already had an important resolution bearing on this
                                          question been introduced and referred to the
                                                Committee on Federal Relations.
                                          He hoped the resolution would be withdrawn.
                                    Mr. PACKARD thought that the election of Senators was a matt
                                          r most important, and he was in favor of attending to
                                          important business first. He urged therefore the adoption
                                          of the resolution.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM made an ineffectual motion to adjourn.
                                    The resolution was adopted without a division.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The House met at 2 p.m.
                                    Mr. ABDILL, of Vermilion, presented his credentials and took
                                          the oath office.
                                    
                                          OUR SOLDIERS.
                                          Mr. MORGAN offered a resolution tendering the thanks of
                                                the House to Major Gen. Rosecrans and the officers
                                                and privates who served under him for their heroic
                                                conduct at the late terrible battle Murfreesboro,
                                                and that we sincerely sympathize with the friends
                                                and relatives of the many patriots who there
                                                sacrificed their lives on behalf of their country
                                                and that the Clerk transmit a copy of tin resolution
                                                to the commander of each regiment engaged in that
                                                battle.
                                          The resolution was adopted by yeas 92, nays 0.
                                          Mr. HOLCOMB offered a joint resolution instructing our
                                                Representatives in Congress to pass a law reducing
                                                the pay of all commissioned officers in the service.
                                                of the United States at least 25 per cent. and
                                                raising the pay of privates at least $4 per
                                                month.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM moved to amend by striking out all that
                                                part relating officers.
                                          Mr. BROWN moved to table the amendment.
                                          The motion was agreed to by yeas 65, nays 29.
                                          The resolution was adopted by yeas 78 nays 15.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION.
                                          Mr. BURTON offered a joint resolution instructing our
                                                Senators and representatives in Congress to oppose
                                                by all honorable means the passage of every bill or
                                                proposition which endorses the President of the
                                                United States in his infamous abolition
                                                proclamation, and which may look directly or
                                                indirectly to its faithful execution.
                                          Mr. HARNEY oppose the adoption of the resolution at
                                                present, as both parties would prefer to make a more
                                                mature and deliberate record. He favored its
                                                reference to the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations.
                                          Mr. NOYES made that motion and it was agreed to by yeas
                                                61, nays 35.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, January 9, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. WOLFE presented a memorial from W. H. Dill, claiming the seat
                                    of Mr. Dickinson for the Senatorial district composed of the
                                    counties of Noble, DeKalb and Stuben; and--
                              Mr. COBB presented the memorial of Alexander White, contesting the
                                    seat of Thomas M. Browne, of Randolph, which were read and
                                    referred to the Committee on Elections.
                              On motion by Mr. SHOULDERS, it was
                              Ordered, That each member of the Senate be furnished with three
                                    dollars in Postage Stamps.
                              
                                    THE SENATORIAL IMBROGLIO.
                                    On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON--
                                    The resolution of the House of Representatives inviting the
                                          Senate to a joint Convention at 2 o'clock p.m.
                                          this day, for the purpose of electing two United States
                                          Senators, was taken up,
                                    Mr. BROWNE moved to concur in the resolution with an
                                          amendment fixing the time at 2 p.m. on Monday.
                                    Mr. COBB moved to lay the amendment on the table, but no
                                          quorum voting--
                                    On motion by Mr. JOHNSON, a call of the Senate was ordered
                                          and proceeded, and 31 Senators answered, as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Messrs. Bradley, Browne, of Randolph, Brown, of
                                                  Wells, Cobb, Davis, of Cass, Douglass, Downey,
                                                  Dunning, Ferguson, Finch, Fuller, Gaff, Gifford,
                                                  Graves,Hartley Hoagland, Hord, Jenkins,Johnston,
                                                  Landers McClurg, Marshall, Moore, Murray, Ray,
                                                  Shields, Shoulders, White, Williams, Wilson and
                                                  Wolfe--31.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. WOLFE moved that the absentees be sent for.
                                    The motion was agreed to.
                                    Mr. McCLURG moved to reconsider the vote ordering the
                                          doorkeeper to send for absentees.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I regret that party has been brought into this
                                          contest, at all. I do not believe that the Democracy are
                                          traitors to the government, but I do believe they are, as
                                          a party, just as patriotic as the Republican party; and I
                                          came here with the expectation of meeting Democrats as
                                          patriots. My friend from Shelby [Mr. Ray] has exceeded in
                                          his patriotic efforts in behalf of the Constitution; I
                                          give him credit for that, and I give credit to the
                                          Democratic party for the same patriotism. I could vote for
                                          the gentleman from Shelby were he nominated for United
                                          States Senator and I could vote for the President of the
                                          Senate [Mr. Dunning,] after hearing his speech upon taking
                                          the chair, just as I could vote for a republican; but
                                          there has been some doubts expressed about the patriotism
                                          of one of the candidates for United States Senator, and
                                          for the simple reason that he has made no Declaration in
                                          behalf of upholding the government in this war. He has not
                                          lent his conceded abilities in the effort to sustain the
                                          government in this trial of strength between the traitors
                                          of the south and the loyal people of the north; but I
                                          believe him patriotic, and shall until some act of his
                                          defines his position to the contrary in this matter. I
                                          hope the Democracy will show, upon this occasion, some
                                          disposition for conciliation and compromise, for I really
                                          think that if they do not there will be no proceedings--no
                                          election; nothing done this winter. Now in regard to the
                                          candidates, the Republican press expected these very men
                                          to be elected, and the people expected it; but it is
                                          seized upon as an opportunity to make you define your
                                          position upon other points.
                                    Mr. HORD. These parties seem determined to bind the Democracy
                                          to carry out their purposes and their will irrespective of
                                          the wishes of the majority in this State. They seem
                                          disposed to compel us to pass the revenue bills, to thwart
                                          the will of the people, and drive us to measures, without
                                          coming and asking us upon equal terms; and I can say for
                                          one that I am unwilling to vote one dollar upon the
                                          revenue bills, or the military bill or any other bill, on
                                          any of the conditions they have annexed until we have
                                          elected our officers. We cannot be driven into measures,
                                          and I stand here in favor of bringing these parties into
                                          the Senate by the seargeant-at-arms. If they are
                                          determined upon revolution let it come, we are prepared to
                                          meet it. The Democratic party having a majority in this
                                          State--a majority in both Houses of the Legislature, let
                                          them stand to this question and not yield to the dictation
                                          of men who are in the minority here. It is no time for any
                                          wavering. It is our business as patriots to stand up to
                                          our duty. If we waive now they will continue these
                                          revolutionary measures during the session. If they are
                                          determined to break up the Legislature and prevent a
                                          quorum here let it be known to the people and let the
                                          people act up an it accordingly. I am for no half measures
                                          and I am opposed to re-reconsider the measure, adopted
                                          here requiring the doorkeeper to bring in these gentlemen
                                          who have proved delinquent to their duty.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. If these gentlemen will show that the majority are
                                          attempting to interfere with the rights of citizens, I
                                          will say I am ready at any time to make to these gentlemen
                                          every assurances that their fears are idle upon this
                                          subject. They have conjured into their heads an erroneous
                                          idea when they think that the Democratic party is not as
                                          loyal to the government as they themselves are: and yet
                                          they ask us in advance of any action, that we shall come
                                          in and make to them a pledge, I, for one, will never  consent to making
                                          any terms of that humiliating character. My programme is
                                          that we meet here day after day during the 61 days of this
                                          session and make every effort to bring these gentlemen up
                                          to their work, and if we cannot do it will not be our
                                          fault. It shall go out through-out the length and breadth
                                          of this great country, and even to the shores of Europe,
                                          that the union men of Indiana--God save
                                          the mark--that the union men, the only Union men of the State of
                                          Indiana, were the men that came here upon this floor and
                                          pursued such a policy as to revolutionize the State of
                                          Indiana. At the proper time I am willing to endorse the
                                          resolution of the Senator from Fayette [Mr. Claypool] upon
                                          this subject; and I think before we get through with this
                                          Assembly we will have a record that will be no reproach.
                                          But we are no more interested in legislation than they
                                          are--if they can get along without legislation we can. As
                                          far as their rebellion is concerned, they can get together
                                          in their king caucus and let them take their own course.
                                          If they fail to meet us on this floor for the purpose of
                                          legislation, and the legislation of the State is stopped,
                                          and great evil comes upon this people in consequence, who
                                          will undertake to charge that the men who sit here every
                                          day endeavoring to legislate, are responsible for the
                                          result? Let them take the responsibility and make their
                                          record and let it go out from day to day, through the
                                          papers and by telegraph that the Democratic party of the
                                          State are here in obedience to their sworn oaths, anxious
                                          to go on with legislation, but that the fault is in
                                          consequence of the non-attendance of union men of Indiana. I have at heart the
                                          interests of this country as much and more, I am
                                          satisfied, than any set of gentlemen that will so conduct
                                          themselves.
                                    As far as the loyalty of the candidates we have presented for
                                          United States Senators is concerned I take it that their
                                          record is above reproach, and if gentlemen want to make a
                                          point in regard to that matter, and if the standing of our
                                          candidates is not a sufficient pledge of the course they
                                          intend to pursue, nothing we could say would make it more
                                          so. They stand upon their reputation as statesmen,
                                          patriots, and loyal citizens. I am in favor of this motion
                                          not being reconsidered for this reason: we must make an
                                          honest effort to bring these gentlemen in. And if they
                                          intend to come in they had better come in very soon
                                          because the longer they put it off the harder it will be
                                          to come back--
                                    Mr. MURRAY (interposing) I would ask if the gentlemen speaks
                                          from experience. [Laughter.]
                                    Mr. WOLFE. I have but little experience, and I am not in
                                          favor of following any precedent unless they are good
                                          ones, even the precedents set by my party friends. I am in
                                          favor of letting by-gones as far as that matter is
                                          concerned, be bygones. But I will say to those gentle-men
                                          who stand in opposition to us on this floor they need
                                          apprehend no danger that the Democratic party of Indiana
                                          will pursue any course that will compromise in any degree
                                          the interests of this great union, I take it for granted
                                          that the Democratic party is as true to the Union as the
                                          needle to the north pole, I might say upon this subject,
                                          sir,and only do it for the purpose of explaining my own
                                          position that I have made more speeches for the purpose of
                                          assisting the present administration in raising men and
                                          money for the prosecution of this war, than every single
                                          republican in the county of Harrison: and it is a known
                                          fact at home. I am willing to pass a proper resolution
                                          pledging the State of Indiana to a vigorous prosecution of
                                          the war for proper purposes, but not to pledge
                                          unconditionally the State of Indiana to prosecute this war
                                          for the liberation of negroes. And the reason I will not
                                          do it for that purpose is that I believe such policy is
                                          detrimental to the Union and is a disunion scheme.
                                          Everything I do, as far as federal relations are concerned
                                          shall be with an eye single to the restoration of the
                                          Union.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. Mr. President: I am not here as an
                                          ambassador or minister plenipotentiary of the members of
                                          the republican party who I discover this morning, as I did
                                          yesterday afternoon, are absent from their seats in the
                                          Senate; and I do not propose to discuss that matter,
                                          although I know some of the reasons why they are not
                                          present in the Senate Chamber at this time.
                                    I can say to you and to the Senate that I came here hoping to
                                          see a harmonious session of the General Assembly, that the
                                          Legislature would proceed promptly with its legitimate
                                          business, and that nothing would be done by either party
                                          to embarrass a proper action upon the part of the
                                          people's representatives. I was very much pleased
                                          with the harmony which characterized the organization of
                                          the Senate, and I was pleased with the patriotic address
                                          delivered by the President of the Senate [Mr. Dunning.]
                                          upon assuming his duties as the presiding officer. Our
                                          republican friends had hoped that this harmony would
                                          continue to characterize the deliberations of this body.
                                          They regret, as I regret, the apparent necessity of
                                          following an exceedingly bad precedent that gentlemen have
                                          established until it has almost run so long that the
                                          memory of man runneth not to the contrary. I doubt very
                                          much whether any Senator can conscientiously absent him-
                                                 self from the
                                          legislative body for the purpose of embarrassing the
                                          action of the people's representatives. I think
                                          the representatives of the people, for the purposes of
                                          legislation, are the people themselves; and if you attempt
                                          to force them to legislate contrary to their con vic ions
                                          you strike at the foundation of republican institutions
                                          itself.
                                    But, gentlemen, don't tell me, if you please, that
                                          you have only sought to inaugurate this policy in trying
                                          times and when public liberty is at stake. I remember to
                                          the contrary. There are Senators around me who know this
                                          to be true, that in 1855 you refused to elect United
                                          States Senators by inaugurating this same system of
                                          revolution, and that too when there was but a bare
                                          Democratic majority of one in this Senate; and Indiana was
                                          not represented in the Senate of the United States in
                                          consequence of that action. I do not say these things in a
                                          spirit of recrimination, sir, but you remember, in 1857,
                                          when Hugh Miller was in his seat and Kline G. Shryock was
                                          contesting it, alter the papers in the case had been
                                          referred to the Committee on the
                                                Judiciary, and after that Committee had
                                          reported it back for the consideration of this Senate,
                                          every time the majority attempted to bring you to a vote
                                          upon that question you broke a quorum. And you remember
                                          further, that upon the last night of the session you
                                          dictated to my republican friends and told them that they
                                          should not pass the general nor special appropriation
                                          bills until they agreed to pass over this contested
                                          election case, and my friends c me down upon their knees
                                          and permitted you to put the collar upon their necks and
                                          let you call them your dogs, to come when you whistled.
                                          And in 1861, when certain measures were about to be
                                          passed, you retired, and when we sent our doorkeeper to
                                          politely ask you to come in, you politely told him he
                                          could go to--a warmer climate than this. [Laughter.]
                                          Finally you sat down and wrote out written propositions
                                          embodying the terms upon which you would come in, and my
                                          republican friends, acting conservatively or because they
                                          could not help it--I am rather inclined to think it was
                                          because they could not help it--granted the conditions you
                                          named, and you returned to your places and permitted
                                          legislation to proceed.
                                    But because you inaugurated a system of revolution it
                                          don't justify my republican friends in following
                                          it, I believe in a higher law of individual
                                          responsibility. I am here for the purpose of discharging
                                          an honest duty to my constituents and to the country, as I
                                          understand it, and I shall do that without regard to party
                                          caucuses or party dictation. The Republican party have not
                                          succeeded in their elections for the very reason that they
                                          have refused to entertain the idea of the immaculate
                                          conception of the party. Whenever we conclude that our
                                          party can do no wrong we can then accomplish our
                                          purpose.
                                    But what are the circumstances by which we are surrounded? I
                                          think I understand a little more of the purposes of my
                                          Republican friends than some gentle-, men upon the floor.
                                          It is said we want to prevent the election of United
                                          States Senators. Gentlemen, let me say the people of
                                          Indiana expected this Legislature to elect United States
                                          Senators and public feeling indicated very certainly that
                                          Thomas A. Hendricks would be the man elected for the long
                                          term. My Republican friends expected it But it wan
                                          somewhat doubtful who would be sent for the short term. It
                                          was thought by many that you would put Jesse D. Bright in.
                                          [Voices--"No,"
                                          ''No."] My Republican friends
                                          said to me, Let them do that thing-- that is just what we
                                          want them to do-- we will bring the action of the party
                                          for endorsement before the people; we will meet them
                                          there. There is where these questions ought to be met. I
                                          know my friend from Putnam [Mr. Johnston] would be glad to
                                          have it put in this shape. We got Democrats so anxious on
                                          that question that in the contest in my county they
                                          pledged themselves, as far as the election of United
                                          States Senator was concerned, that that patriot martyr should not be elected.
                                    The Constitution of this State makes it the duty of this
                                          Legislature to elect United States Senators, and my
                                          Republican friends do not propose to shrink from it.--
                                          Something has been said about this election. Gentlemen, I
                                          am--
                                    Mr. LANDERS (interrupting.) Didn't I understand the
                                          gentleman to say that Ms friends were bolting because the
                                          Democrats refused to nominate Jesse D. Bright?
                                    Mr. BROWNE. I don't know what the gentleman
                                          understood me to say. But, Mr. President, inasmuch as you
                                          have to nominate an objectionable man, I regret you did
                                          not make choice of the must objectionable one you had. I
                                          practice upon the rule that when I cannot get you to do a
                                          decent thing, I want you to do the very meanest thing you
                                          can. But you have disappointed me in doing it a little
                                          more decently this time than I had expected.
                                    But I was about to say something concerning the question of
                                          loyally, when the gentleman interrupted me. The heart of
                                          Indiana is loyal. It's every pulsation is true to
                                          the Union of these States. Demagogues and politicians
                                          only, affix conditions to their fealty. I have always
                                          entertained this idea, but believe you differ in the
                                          peculiar manifestation of that principle. You think that
                                          the Union ought  to be
                                          maintained within the limits of the Constitution. And I
                                          believe, as I believe I have to answer to God, that the
                                          war ought to be prosecuted for no other purpose than to
                                          maintain the perpetuity of the Constitution and the
                                          integrity of the Union as it was. [Applause on the floor
                                          and in the galleries.] But you and I differ when we come
                                          to define what is within the meaning of the
                                          Constitution--what will constitute the "Union as
                                          it was."-- You believe it is in violation of that
                                          instrument to deprive rebel masters of their slaves and
                                          you believe that the President's proclamation is
                                          not a legitimate war measure. I believe as much as I
                                          believe any other thing, that by the same power you
                                          deprive the rebel of his gun, with which he shoots down
                                          loyal, Union soldiers, by that same power we must strike
                                          down the relation which exists between him and his slave.
                                          But gentlemen say it can't be done. I suppose,
                                          Mr. President you will tolerate the widest discussion upon
                                          this point. You say the Constitution of the United States
                                          recognizes the institution of slavery and we have no right
                                          to interfere with that institution in the States. If I
                                          apprehend the position we assume, we don't
                                          propose to destroy the law by which slavery is recognized
                                          in any State, but simply propose to deprive the rebel of
                                          his slave, leaving the right as it is, so that whenever
                                          the Union is restored he may return as to the local law,
                                          to the same position he held previous to the commencement
                                          of hostilities. The Constitution guarantees the right of
                                          life, and yet you and the Senator from Lawrence [Mr. Cobb]
                                          have sent bayonets and muskets to destroy their lives--and
                                          why? because they are in rebellion against the
                                          Constitution of the United States, Let me ask you if the
                                          negro is to be held more sacred than the life or liberty
                                          of white men? and yet you make slavery more sacred than
                                          the right of life and liberty to the white rebel. I never
                                          thought a negro was better than a white man, and I am an
                                          ultra Republican in politics. Thomas A. Hendricks is a
                                          loyal man of that conditional school
                                          that don't come up to my ideas of what a loyal
                                          man should be, but you may elect him as far as I am
                                          concerned. I would avert the calamity, if I could do so by
                                          legal and Constitutional means. He is nominated--you have
                                          the power to elect, you are willing to assume the
                                          responsibility; do so, and I shall hold you answerable to
                                          that high tribunal, public opinion.
                                     These are stirring times in which we have fallen, and we
                                          have simply sought to enforce what is a very common method
                                          of legislation. If these gentlemen were elected to the
                                          United States Senate, it would be perfectly competent for
                                          this body to instruct them in reference to the prosecution
                                          of this great war. We simply propose to give them this
                                          instruction in advance. We ask to do what you Democrats
                                          always do; We ask to make a platform upon which we propose
                                          to elect men to the Senate of the United States We intend
                                          to make it out of good timber, and if they fall through,
                                          it shall not be our fault. As a distinguished politician
                                          in the fifth district, says, "if they
                                          don't stand on it we will use the timber to
                                          beat-out their political brains." I say we
                                          don't ask gentlemen to humiliate themselves--we
                                          ask you to meet us in the spirit of conciliation. We are
                                          willing to meet you in that spirit of conciliation that
                                          ought to characterise men who are attempting to rise to
                                          the dignity of statesmen. We are willing to meet and
                                          confer with you in the spirit of kindness--we will state
                                          our fears and you can give us your assurances.
                                    Mr. COBB (interposing,) You can meet us here.
                                    Mr. BROWNE. We do not know but you may have an infernal
                                          machine a political magazine and a slow match under the
                                          State House with which you want to blow us up after you
                                          get us in here. But ii you will give us your pledge, we
                                          will take it, and trust to your honesty. I remember that
                                          the gentlemen from Lawrence [Mr. Cobb,] yesterday told us
                                          kindly, but in such a spirit that we believed he meant
                                          what he said, "You gentlemen had your feet upon
                                          our necks last session, and we have ours upon yours this
                                          session." We took it, that the Senator from
                                          Lawrence meant what he said, and we come back this morning
                                          and say to him. "We won't let you do as
                                          you please. You mistake the men with
                                          whom you deal. We will not remain in this Senate except as
                                          the peers of the Senator from Lawrence
                                          and every other Senator."
                                    Mr. LANDERS assured the friends of the gentlemen who had just
                                          sat down that the Democracy did not intend to blow them up
                                          with a slow match; that was not their way of doing
                                          business. The nigger was blowing up that party fast
                                          enough. [Laughter.]
                                    Mr. WHITE, I suppose as there are but two Republican Union
                                          men in their seats, it will be thought that we are sent
                                          here for a certain purpose; but I will-state that I am
                                          here to-day because in 1860 I was elected to serve in this
                                          Senate. I am not here for the purpose of spying out what
                                          you are doing, or anything of that kind. I am opposed to
                                          bolting--I am pledged against bolting--and it would have
                                          to be under the most extraordinary circumstances if I
                                          should bolt--it would be when the price of liberty is at
                                          stake. The contingency of the election of United States
                                          Senators never shall control my actions for one moment. As
                                          far as the people of my district are con-  cerned, we fought you, and
                                          fought you nobly, last October, to see who should have the
                                          United States Senatorship, and we failed. The people I
                                          represent, both Republicans, Democrats and Union
                                          men--there are some union Democrats in our
                                          county--expected Thomas A. Hendricks to be the man;
                                          although he might not get the vote of my county as
                                          represented by the Democratic members--Judge McDonald
                                          being named in that connection and he having been an old
                                          and respected citizen of that county. As to who should be
                                          the United States Senator for the forty days ensuing, I
                                          had no hesitation in saying that David Turpie was the man;
                                          having run in his district for the good of the party, and
                                          with no expectation that he would be elected. When I voted
                                          yesterday for the adoption of the resolution of the
                                          Senator from Fayette [Mr. Claypool] I supposed there could
                                          be no difference in opinion in regard to it; and at the
                                          extra session I am sure it would have been unanimously
                                          adopted by the Senate.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON. Does the Senator say that the war is prosecuted
                                          now for the same avowed purpose it was prosecuted for at
                                          the time the extra session was in progress?
                                    Mr. WHITE. I may be carrying the question back to
                                          tender-ground but I ask, is there a gentleman here who
                                          understands that this resolution goes further than what
                                          was understood at the extra session, we were to go to
                                          suppress the rebellion?
                                    Mr. COBB. I will state I am one that does. If the Senator
                                          will permit me I will give a single reason. At the special
                                          session a proclamation had been issued by the President of
                                          the United States defining the policy to be adopted in the
                                          prosecution of the war. Since that time sir, that policy
                                          has been changed.
                                    Mr. WHITE. What is changed?
                                    Mr. COBB. The war policy of the administration, sir. For an
                                          interpretation of the resolution referred to by the
                                          Senator I take the public sentiment of the Republican
                                          party. I undertake to say the sentiment of that party
                                          to-day is that the war must be prosecuted for the
                                          suppression of the rebellion without regard to
                                          constitutional limits. The construction is clear that this
                                          resolution was intended to commit my friends in this
                                          Senate to a policy that in my opinion ought never to have
                                          been adopted by the party in power, I refer to the late
                                          proclamation of the President of the United States issued
                                          the 22d of September; the record of Congress in voting tor
                                          the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia, the
                                          confiscation act, and other matters of record claimed as
                                          war measures.
                                    Mr. WHITE (resuming.) So the gentleman interprets that as
                                          being the cause why his friends will not support this
                                          resolution. So far as the Abolition of slavery in the
                                          District of Columbia is concerned, I have never treated
                                          that of any significance, but if the Republican party has
                                          erred in abolishing slavery in the District of Columbia
                                          what harm to this republic so far has accrued by that
                                          error? But I did not get, up for the purpose of going into
                                          a general speech or of replying to anything that has been
                                          said here; but I may say further that whatever the action
                                          of members here may be I am not authorized to speak. I
                                          never sought such authority and don't ask it. I
                                          am opposed to bolting and I have no particular right to
                                          know upon what ground they will return. But sir. I will
                                          return to when my friend from Lawrence [Mr. Cobb,]
                                          diverted my attention. I wish to ask what there is in this
                                          resolution that; any gentleman cannot endorse? There are
                                          but two plain propositions in it. Are you not in favor of
                                          a vigorous prosecution of the war? Are you in favor of a
                                          separation of any State from this Union? If you are you
                                          can show your hands plainly.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. I believe there was no gentleman who spoke in
                                          reference to the resolution introduced by the Senator from
                                          Fayette [Mr. Claypool] who objected to a vigorous
                                          prosecution of the war. I think the gentleman must know
                                          the fact to be that the objection to the resolution was in
                                          regard to its peculiar phraseology, It was not full
                                          enough; it ought to have included matters that were not in
                                          it.
                                    Mr. WHITE. I am not vain enough of my ability to suppose that
                                          I can place the Democratic party in a false position, but
                                          I may be indulged in saying that I suppose they wanted to
                                          go further and make a hit at abolitionists. Well sir, if
                                          the abolitionists are opposed to the prosecution of this
                                          war for the suppression of rebellion I pledge myself in
                                          perpetual hostility to abolitionists. As to the party
                                          properly called Abolitionists--they who have been in favor
                                          from time immemorial of interfering with slavery in the
                                          slave States--those one idea men who never had a thought
                                          except about the doctrine of abolitionism--I never have
                                          sympathized with them for one moment; but sir, if the
                                          abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia will tend
                                          to the suppression of this rebellion, then I endorse that.
                                          If the proclamation of the President of the Unites States
                                          dated the first of January will tend to suppress the
                                          rebellion, then I endorse that proclamation.
                                    Mr. COBB (interposing,) If the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus will put down the
                                          rebellion are you in favor of it?
                                    Mr. WHITE. I am in favor of anything within the reach of
                                          loyalty to the Con- 
                                          stitution to suppress this rebellion. There are times when
                                          Constitutional barriers must be got over.
                                    Mr. COBB (interposing.) Are you in favor of breaking down the
                                          Constitution for the purpose of suppressing this
                                          rebellion?
                                    Mr. WHITE. I am in favor of suppressing this rebellion at
                                          every hazard.
                                    Mr. COBB (in his seat.) That is your resolution too.
                                    Mr. WHITE. I do not understand it so. I will repeat that I am
                                          in favor of suppressing this unholy rebellion at every
                                          sacrifice at every cost, I care not what it is
                                    A VOICE--"Sacrifice the liberties-of the
                                          people?"
                                    Mr. WHITE responded "No Sir," and then
                                          briefly referred to threats made in the Congress of the
                                          United States that there are States in this Union to be
                                          left out in the cold.
                                    Mr. DUNNING [Mr. Williams in the chair.] Those acquainted
                                          with my course, know that I follow no man and I will not
                                          suffer the remarks of the gentleman from Montgomery [Mr.
                                          White] to go unanswered. Such a sentiment the Democratic
                                          party never uttered and such a sentiment I would
                                          spurn.
                                    Mr. WHITE. I am glad to hear this come from the source it
                                          does. I would no more let South Carolina go out of this
                                          Union than I would let Massachusetts--I would no more let
                                          California than I would let Indiana go out. No State is to
                                          be severed from this glorious Union as far as I am
                                          concerned. Therefore I say if this resolution does not go
                                          far enough, if it does not denounce the Abolitionist far
                                          enough, make your resolution as broad as you can, as deep
                                          as you can, as denunciatory of them as you please, and I
                                          stand ready to vote for the resolution with you. I do not
                                          care where my vote falls so it gives a moral effect
                                          conducive to restore the Union and suppress the
                                          rebellion--I do not care it is with you or my Republican
                                          friends. I repeat, my vote shall go in denunciation of any
                                          party which is against the suppression of this
                                          rebellion.
                                    [Mr. White concluded his remarks by attempting to show that,
                                          the President of the United States opposed to introduction
                                          of Abolitionism into the conduct of the war.]
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. McClurg. I discover from the empty seats that the
                                          Republican members have not come in. I am aware of the
                                          fact that it is within the power of the minority to defeat
                                          the will of the majority: and I am satisfied they are
                                          prepared at all hazards to carry it out and we are assured
                                          it is their intention to do so. If there is any one thing
                                          more calamitous in its consequence than another it is
                                          rebellion and anarchy, and I regard it as the first duty
                                          of loyal citizens to take such a course as will avoid it.
                                          Patriotic hearts all over this land are watching with
                                          interest every motion of the body, and they demand us
                                          conservative Democrats to do all within the power of a
                                          sovereign State to bring about that word which would be so
                                          sweet to their ears, known in times past
                                          "peace." There never has been a
                                          legislature in Indiana since its organization, to whose
                                          action the citizens of the State look with so much
                                          interest. He recapitulated the action of the Republican
                                          party at the extra session, and reviewed the course
                                          pursued by the Executive in the appointment of Peace
                                          Commissioners. The people now look with intense anxiety to
                                          the action of the Legislature, and he eloquently pictured
                                          the arden desire of the masses of the people, shrouded in
                                          mourning as many of them were, for some hope of some time
                                          hearing that sweet word peace. The Democratic party could
                                          afford to let by-gones be by-gones and indulge in no
                                          factious spirit. The untrammelled freemen of the State
                                          have re-sorted to the ballot box and we have been
                                          endorsed, and what covers a multitude of wrongs that have
                                          been inflicted upon us. We can afford to be generous and
                                          can to-day grant the boon the factious members on the
                                          other side demand of us. If they demand to know what we
                                          propose to do, in advance, we can tell them we propose to
                                          do what the Democracy have done since the days of Thomas
                                          Jefferson--we will mete out the greatest good to the
                                          greatest number. However obnoxious the laws which may be
                                          passed by the government of the United States, we will not
                                          violate them. We propose to say to them, that we will not
                                          violate the Constitution of the United States. We will do
                                          all in our power to legitimately conduct this war for the
                                          purpose of bringing it to an honorable close, whether by
                                          compromise, or treaty or a vigorous prosecution. We will
                                          not violate the liberties of the citizen, the law of
                                          Congress or the Constitution--of all these things we can
                                          assure them. We can assure them, too, that we will elect a
                                          United States Senator for the long and the short term--men
                                          who are the embodyment of the political truth and
                                          political veracity--Thomas A. Hendricks and David
                                          Turpie--and when they take upon themselves that proud
                                          position, the liberties of the people will not be
                                          infringed. the Constitution of the United States will be
                                          revered and all that can be done will be done to avert the
                                          calamities that now hang over us. We can afford, I say, in
                                          the abundance of our success to proclaim to them in broad
                                          light--as plain as the noon day sun--that which we propose
                                          to do. When that is done if they still continue  factious, and treat with
                                          little regard the solemn oath they took one day ago, let
                                          the consequences be upon them and not upon us; but I
                                          appeal to Senators not to allow resentment, which is in
                                          every breast, to influence their acts, and when our
                                          country is groaning as it were in the agonies of death,
                                          not to allow personal considerations to step in and induce
                                          them to commit an act they would hereafter regret.
                                    A message was received from the House of Representatives
                                          requesting Senators to repair to the Hall of the House to
                                          hear the Message of his Excellency the Governor.
                                    The PRESIDENT. By consent of the Senate I will direct a call
                                          of the roll of Senators for the purpose of seeing whether
                                          there is a quorum present or not; and whether the
                                          Republican Senators will come in, and go with us to hear
                                          the Governor deliver his message to the General
                                          Assembly.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. I do not think they want to hear it,
                                          sir. [Laughter.]
                                    The roll was called and but 30 Senators answered to their
                                          names.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS. I see some Senators talk excitedly. I have been
                                          here long enough to take it coolly. I am satisfied that
                                          some time or other our friends will come in. Let us. go
                                          along for a day or two at least. I will say to them if
                                          they will come in and go down to the House to hear the
                                          message we can go without doing them any harm. We have
                                          joint rules that prohibit us from doing any thing in Joint
                                          Convention but the very business we assemble for. If we
                                          assemble for the purpose of hearing the
                                          Governor's Message there will be no danger of
                                          electing United States Senators. Without any authority I
                                          will pledge that the Democratic party will do that, then I
                                          think they might come in and hear the Governor's
                                          message.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. I would take the word of the
                                          gentleman from Knox, [Mr. Williams,] as soon as any other
                                          man, but I do not know where the absent members are, and
                                          if I were to go out after them I am afraid that other man
                                          from Randolph county would come in and take my seat.
                                          [Laughter.]
                                    The PRESIDENT. As far as the President of this Senate is
                                          concerned I have always been opposed to revolution. I had
                                          rather submit to a hardship for a time and rely upon the
                                          people at the ballot box to correct it, than to
                                          revolutionize. I would scorn to take advantage of the
                                          visit of Senators to the Hall of the House to go into an
                                          election of United States Senators. No such act should be
                                          done. with my sanction.
                                    Mr. COBB. I have no disposition to enter into this
                                          discussion, but I will ask why these vacant seats around
                                          us? Has the majority attempted to force upon the minority
                                          any action they have no right to have? I tell you, in a
                                          time like this, there is a terrible responsibility resting
                                          upon the heads of this minority if they intend to thwart
                                          the will of the people of the State of Indiana. Is there
                                          any reason for this action? I tell you there is none. Now
                                          sir, what course should we pursue? Should we bow in
                                          submission to these gentlemen who are so dignified that
                                          they will not come into the Senate? I can say frankly, for
                                          one. that I shall not let them dictate terms to us. I want
                                          to tell the Senator across the way [Mr. White] that I will
                                          hold up the Constitution as a beacon light and I ask him
                                          to follow it.
                                    Mr. WHITE (interrupting.) I will. I suppose it would be
                                          Constitutional to suppress the rebellion. I cannot
                                          conceive of any Union without the Constitution, and when I
                                          spoke of that I meant the restoration of the Union under
                                          the Constitution. Gentlemen talk a great deal about the
                                          Constitution as it is and the Union as it was. I am that
                                          kind of a man. I want the same Constitution our fathers
                                          made without the crossing of a t or the
                                          dotting of an i. If in the debate this
                                          morning gentlemen may have misunderstood me. I wish to
                                          make this correction.
                                    Mr. COBB. The Senator is much more Constitutional than I
                                          thought he was.-- The Senator's assertion was
                                          very broad this morning. He now defines himself much
                                          better and more in accordance with my feelings upon this
                                          subject. But does not the Senator know that when this war
                                          commenced the Crittenden resolution embodied the
                                          sentiments of the people and the sentiments of his party,
                                          because that resolution was voted for by every Republican
                                          Congressman except two: and when Mr. Lincoln defined his
                                          position did'nt he tall us that he had no power
                                          under the Constitution to abolish slavery or to interfere
                                          with it? Did he not tell our ministers abroad that he had
                                          no Constitutional right to do it? And did not Mr. Seward
                                          tell our foreign ministers that when this war closed
                                          whether it closed in a reunity or disintegration, that the
                                          condition of every slave in the southern States would be
                                          the same as before the rebellion begun? Why, sir, how has
                                          that party changed its policy? What is the sentiment now?
                                          Why, it is to prosecute this war for the purpose of
                                          abolishing slavery. The late proclamation of the President
                                          of the United States is clear upon that subject, and is it
                                          not in violation of his pledges? I speak in no
                                          disrespectful terms; but when the President has placed
                                          himself upon the record I have a right to discuss the
                                          merits and demerits of his course, and no man has more
                                          nerve to do it than I have. My voice in my county led on
                                          as many soldiers and as brave ones as that of any man in
                                          the State; and I will say that when my friends came to me
                                          and in  sisted, on
                                          every occasion when they made up companies, that I should
                                          come forth and make speeches for them, I did it with the
                                          understanding that the Constitution of my country should
                                          be strictly adhered to. I will permit no man to go farther
                                          than I will in the prosecution of this war for the purpose
                                          of suppressing the rebellion under the Constitution.
                                    Mr. WHITE (interrupting.) Are you in favor of amending the
                                          Constitution?
                                    Mr. COBB. I will discuss living issues The gentleman will not
                                          find me always adhering to things that may be wrong.
                                    Mr. WHITE. I am always going to ad here to the Constitution.
                                          The truth of it is that I am so planted and grounded upon
                                          the Constitution that I never think of qualifying
                                          myself.
                                    Mr. COBB. When the Senator will present his question in a
                                          shape that will make it apply to this rebellion, I can
                                          give him an answer. But there are living issues to talk
                                          about now. Then, sir, I will get back to the point; and I
                                          don't know how far I have strayed away. My course
                                          is marked out, sir. I will make no compromise with these
                                          gentlemen until they convince me I have done wrong. What
                                          right have they to come in here and say that we will
                                          disturb the military arm of the State of Indiana? Have we
                                          moved in that direction? When that question comes up they
                                          can act, and it is their duty to stand here until then.
                                          They have no right to come in here and compel us to place
                                          our signatures to a writing binding us not to do certain
                                          things, and for one I never will do it.
                                    Mr. MURRAY (interrupting.) Did you have any more right to ask
                                          that two years ago than these gentlemen have now?
                                    Mr. COBB. I waited until action was had by the
                                          gentleman's party. But I ask if there is any
                                          similarity between the two cases? Here is something to be
                                          acted upon in the future, but then action had been taken.
                                          It was well understood that the Senator from Elkhart [Mr.
                                          Murray] was the only man who had nerve to stand out
                                          against his party on. that occasion. and I say with
                                          pleasure that he acted the part of a patriot. We looked
                                          upon him as a conservative man. But the argument against
                                          our action two years ago is an argument against these
                                          gentlemen now. There are certain acts in the history of
                                          legislation that may be resisted by revolution in that
                                          way, but I think the Senators upon the other side were
                                          convinced that we acted justly and therefore they conceded
                                          what we asked upon that occasion. But suppose we had not,
                                          our action then was different from the action of this
                                          minority now, as I have before shown, and I am content to
                                          let them keep the responsibility upon their own
                                          shoulders.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I shall give my humble efforts to bring about a
                                          compromise between these conflicting parties to this
                                          controversy. I am not here as the mouth piece of the
                                          absent Senators--I am here against their wishes-- probably
                                          against their consent, sir. Assuming the prerogative of a
                                          Senator upon this floor I reserve the right to perform my
                                          duties as I see proper, and no party shall control my
                                          action where my conscience is in controversy. As I
                                          understand the grounds of compromise, I shall urge them
                                          from time to time, in order that we may get a quorum
                                          present. They ask a declaration of principles from the
                                          majority on this floor. Is there any thing wrong in that?
                                          When these gentlemen refused to vote for a simple
                                          resolution of support to this government the minority
                                          thought they saw a justification of their conduct. The
                                          Senator [Mr. Cobb] excuses his action by saying he could
                                          not vote for the resolution without amendment. Why did he
                                          not offer his amendment putting the word
                                          "Constitution" in it? I would have voted
                                          for it. And I would have voted for a more vigorous
                                          prosecution of the war.-- And let me tell democratic
                                          Senators that it was for the want of a more vigorous
                                          prosecution of the war that you hold a majority here
                                          instead of being in the minority." That I believe
                                          to be God's Truth. As a republican from the
                                          commencement to the present time, I have been dissatisfied
                                          with the progress of this war, and the people have been
                                          dissatisfied. I speak the words of soberness and truth,
                                          sir. I know the sentiments of the people upon that
                                          subject, sir. I live among the masses and attend all their
                                          local meetings, and permit me to say there are but two
                                          republicans living in the school district in which I
                                          reside, and I am one of them, sir. I am surrounded by
                                          democrats such as would not vote for me though a near
                                          neighbor.
                                    Mr. LANDERS (interrupting.) If the Democratic party is loyal,
                                          why offer these resolutions?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I say there is a suspicion abroad in regard to
                                          the leaders of the Democratic party, that their ultimate
                                          object is, sir, to take the North Western States from the
                                          present Union, urge the independence of the South and
                                          attach them to it.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. I say that charge is not true.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I do not believe a word of it. But as affording a
                                          ground work for suspicion I will ask if your party is not
                                          voting in concert with Vallandigham of Ohio? Is he not a
                                          leader of the Democratic party upon the floor of
                                          Congress?--Yes sir. And he has absolutely offered a
                                          resolution to dismember this government.
                                    Mr. COBB (interrupting.) I think the gentleman is mistaken on
                                          this subject.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. He did offer a resolution, sir, to cut up this
                                          government into two or three Republics.

                                    

                                     Mr. COBB. I have not seen it.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. Who are your distinguished Readers in New York?
                                          At the first breaking out of this rebellion the Democracy
                                          of New York boldly recommended the dismemberment of this
                                          government the secession of the city of New York and the
                                          setting of it up as a little kingdom by itself. But let me
                                          come nearer home, and see if this suspicion is not well
                                          grounded. I find upon my table in yesterday
                                          morning' Sentinel a
                                          correspondence between Democratic Senators upon this floor
                                          and Jesse D. Bright, soliciting him to run as one of their
                                          candidates; and what does he say in regard to this war?
                                          Let me read it:
                                    I have never believed that war was any remedy for existing
                                          differences between the two sections.-- As your agent in
                                          the councils of the country, I was opposed to all
                                          legislative acts in aid of this war, and if you were to
                                          offer me a seat in the Senate again, and I were to accept
                                          it, I would not during my stay there, contribute in any
                                          form to the support or encouragement of the in human
                                          crusade that those in power are waging, under the late
                                          proclamation of the President of the United States,
                                          against those who are "bone of my bone, and flesh
                                          of my flesh." On the contrary, I am for peace,
                                          peace, peace. I am now, as I have been from the hour of
                                          this inhuman, unnatural and anti-Christian war was
                                          inaugurated, in favor of a cessation of hostilities to the
                                          end that compromise might again, (as it has in times
                                          past,) perform its peaceful offices.
                                    There is a declaration from a gentleman that honorable
                                          senators on this floor have solicited to become their
                                          candidate for Senator of the United States. Now may there
                                          not be some ground work for this suspicion? And the
                                          distinguished gentleman nominated for the long term, what
                                          has been his record? Where has been the effort of this
                                          distinguished candidate in aiding the government in this
                                          death struggle with traitors? Has he made one solitary
                                          speech in behalf of his country? In the name of God, if he
                                          has, produce the record here to-day. Has he brought to the
                                          assistance of this country the vigor of the talents he
                                          enjoys in a preeminent degree ? If he has, where is his
                                          record, sir?
                                    Mr. RAY (interposing) I refer you to a letter of his in the
                                                Sentinel, early in the Extra
                                          Session of the Legislature of 1862a letter which was
                                          called out by the circumstances of the country, and
                                          perhaps the appeal of his friends.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I am glad if there is a little letter somewhere,
                                          where that gentleman has made a scratch in favor of this
                                          war. I say he should have stood by the honorable Senator
                                          from Shelby [Mr. Ray] the President of this Senate [Mr.
                                          Dunning] and other gentlemen who have contributed to this
                                          war, I am in favor of the Constitution without any
                                          amendment whatever, and I do not like such talk as being
                                          for the Constitution with an "if" and an
                                          "and."
                                    Mr. COBB (in his seat.) I say so, too.
                                    Mr MURRAY. It sounds like the talk of those hellians
                                          attempting to crush out the government. By these
                                          expressions and these acts of the leaders of your party
                                          there is given grounds for suspicion on the part of Union
                                          men that there are certain leading men in the north
                                          conniving in this rebellion and desiring the acknowment of
                                          southern independence--
                                    Mr. COBB (interrupting.) Does the gentleman believe there is
                                          a Democratic Senator here who entertains any such
                                          sentiments?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. No Sir.
                                    Mr. COBB. Then where is your reason for justifying such
                                          suspicions?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I am giving them, God bless you! [Laughter.]
                                    Mr. DUNNING (soto voce.) The Senator is
                                          making an argument for his friends and not for himself.
                                          [Renewed laughter.]
                                    Mr. MURRAY. Yes, sir.
                                    Mr. LANDERS (interrupting.) Do you not believe that the
                                          action of your Republican friends in revolutionizing this
                                          Senate is for the purpose of making political capital?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. In my opinion it is the very poorest possible
                                          course to manufacture political capital. I do not think
                                          they are such fools as to have that idea. Mr. M. continued
                                          at some length, his remarks having especial reference to
                                          the Emancipation Proclamation.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS. Gentlemen all state that the people expected
                                          before we convened here the election of Thomas A.
                                          Hendricks to the United States Senate, but that gentle
                                          man's course has been such they cannot suffer him
                                          to be elected.-- Now, if you are determined to break a
                                          quorum, there is no Democrat in the Legislature but will,
                                          if you will do the same, lay down his resignation and go
                                          home to the people. [VOICES--'I will,"
                                          "I will."] To call on us for a record
                                          the second day of the session! Was there any such thing
                                          ever done before?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. Who ever heard of an election on the second
                                          day?
                                    Mr. SHIELDS. There is a necessity for it. A man represents us
                                          in the United States Senate who has no right to.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. Is he not a Democrat?
                                    Mr. SHIELDS. No, sir. No more than the devil is an angel.
                                          [Laughter.] The people all over the State expected
                                          Hendricks and Turpie elected; and when the people want
                                          anything it must be done in this country.
                                    
                                          GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                          The regular biennial message of the Governor to the
                                                General Assembly was now announced and placed on the
                                                Secretary's table, hand of Wm. R.
                                                Holloway--his Excellency's Private
                                                Secretary.
                                          His Excellency's Message (coming in
                                                Irregularly) was never formally read in the  Senate. The
                                                document rehearses Governor Morton's
                                                external military administration for the past two
                                                years, under appropriate heads. Only that portion
                                                which relates to his internal administration is
                                                repeated here:
                                    
                                    
                                          SOLDIERS' FAMILIES.
                                          Notwithstanding all that was being done by public and
                                                private benevolence, toward supporting the families
                                                of soldiers, he evidence came to me from every part
                                                of the State, that many families were destitute, and
                                                that great suffering must ensue during this winter,
                                                unless active steps were taken to raise
                                                contributions and provide for the needy.
                                          Accordingly, I issued an appeal to the people of the
                                                State, a copy of which is herewith filed, stating
                                                the necessity, and calling upon all who were able to
                                                contribute of their means. I am gratified to be able
                                                to report, that a very generous response has been
                                                made to the appeal, that active measures have been
                                                initiated in many counties in the State to relieve
                                                the necessities, and provide for the comfort of the
                                                families of our soldiers who have abandoned home and
                                                all its endearments to fight the battles of
                                                our-country. The clergy of the State were especially
                                                called upon to engage in the work of visitation and
                                                collecting contributions, and have, as I am informed
                                                generally responded with zeal and energy.
                                          It is, however, manifest that all efforts will fall
                                                short of meeting the necessities of the case, and
                                                that Legislative aid will be required.
                                          The circumstances by which we are surrounded are novel
                                                and extraordinary, and should be met by prompt and
                                                extra-ordinary measures.
                                          I therefore earnestly invite the early and favorable
                                                consideration of this subject by the
                                                Legislature.
                                    
                                    
                                          LEGION.
                                          At the extra session of the Legislature a militia law
                                                was passed, providing for the organization of the
                                                Indiana Legion.
                                          Although this law was defective in many respects, and
                                                should be amended, yet it provided the frame-work of
                                                an organization which has rendered most valuable
                                                service during the war. To the officers and men of
                                                the Indiana Legion, the State chiefly owes the
                                                immunity she has enjoyed from invasion, plunder and
                                                murder, by the guerrilla and marauding bands which
                                                infested many of the adjoining counties in Kentucky.
                                                Not only so, their aid and protection has been
                                                cheerfully and successfully extended to the loyal
                                                citizens of Kentucky when it has been called for. On
                                                several occasions they met the enemy in battle, when
                                                they ably maintained the credit of the State, and
                                                behaved with that distinguished courage which has
                                                characterized the soldiers of Indiana throughout
                                                this war. Some have fallen in battle, and I
                                                earnestly recommend that their families be provided
                                                for, and placed on a footing at least equal to the
                                                families of those who fall in the Federal service.
                                                They also rendered prompt and efficient service in
                                                guarding rebel prisoners when the Federal forces
                                                performing that duty were called into the field.
                                                Although the organization and operation of the
                                                Legion has been chiefly confined to the counties
                                                bordering on the Ohio river, yet much has been done
                                                in some of the interior counties, and among them I
                                                would especially notice the counties of Jennings,
                                                Decatur, Shelby, Tippecanoe, Putnam, Parke and Vigo.
                                                The response which was made from these counties, on
                                                sudden calls for military force, was of the most
                                                energetic and satisfactory character. For a full
                                                account of the operations of the Legion, I refer you
                                                to the able and interesting report of Major General
                                                Love. Your attention is also specially called to the
                                                recommendations contained in his report relative to
                                                the amendment of the Militia law. It is very
                                                important that provision be made presenting
                                                inducements to join the Legion, by proper exemptions
                                                and payment conferring the authority and pointing
                                                out the manner, by which the members of companies
                                                shall be compelled to attend meeting for drill and
                                                response to call for service. Such authority is
                                                doubtless contained in the law now, but its mode of
                                                exercise is not determined. The Legislature
                                                appropriated, for the support of the Legion, $70,000
                                                for the year 1861, and $70,000 for the year 1862. As
                                                will appear from the Auditor's report, only
                                                the sum of $7,352 23 has been expended on these
                                                appropriations up to 31st day of October last. The
                                                distribution of the Fund among the counties and
                                                regiments, as required by the act was never made by
                                                the Adjutant General, because of insuperable
                                                difficulties growing out of defects in the law, and
                                                the organization of the companies. I trust the
                                                legislature will make prompt provision for the
                                                payment of all claims growing out of the operations
                                                of the Legion and for the proper distribution of the
                                                Fund.
                                          Strongly impressed how much the peace and security of
                                                the State depend on the efficiency of the Legion in
                                                the month October, I summoned the officers to this
                                                city to receive military instruction in a school
                                                temporarily organized and conducted by Maj. Gen.
                                                Love. Some 400 gentlemen were in attendance, and the
                                                spirit and devotion manifested by them, and their
                                                progress in military knowledge, were of the most
                                                encouraging and satisfactory character.
                                    
                                    
                                          PROCLAMATION CALLING OUT OF THE
                                                MILITIA.
                                          At the same time of the invasion of Kentucky by Kirby
                                                Smith, the guerrillas infested  the Kentucky side of the
                                                Ohio river, from Lawrenceburg to Mount Vernon, and
                                                at several points large bodies of rebel cavalry were
                                                assembled, and seemed to be awaiting an opportunity
                                                to cross the river and invade the State. The river
                                                was very low; in many places fordable, end much
                                                alarm prevailed in our border counties.
                                          Accordingly, I issued a proclamation, of which a copy
                                                is herewith filed, requiring all the able-bodied
                                                men, subject to military service, between the ages
                                                of 18 and 45 in the counties bordering on the Ohio
                                                river, to assemble at stated periods with whatever
                                                arms they could command, to organize themselves into
                                                companies--and be instructed in military tactics.
                                                This proclamation was very generally acquiesced in,
                                                and carried into execution by the people and was
                                                continued as long as the emergency seemed to
                                                require. The preparation thus made, in connection
                                                with the Legion, for repelling and punishing
                                                invasion, deterred the guerrilla and marauding
                                                parties who were plundering and murdering the Union
                                                men on the other side of the river, and protected
                                                the lives and property of our citizen. 
                                    
                                    
                                          ADJUTANT GENERAL.
                                          I lay before you the able and interesting report of
                                                Adjutant General Noble.
                                          It contains a brief history of the operations of the
                                                State in furnishing troops for the prosecution of
                                                the war and much more valuable information. I have
                                                instructed him to prepare another report, to contain
                                                the name of evey officer and private soldier who has
                                                entered the army from Indiana, with the number of
                                                the regiment, company or battery to which he
                                                belonged. Such a report would be invaluable
                                                hereafter as a work of history. 
                                    
                                    
                                          STATE AGENCY.
                                          The report of Hon. R. N. Hudson, the Agent of State, is
                                                herewith laid before you, and your attention invited
                                                to the recommendations contained in it , to change
                                                the form of indebtedness, by substituting coupon
                                                bonds for certificates of stock, and abolish the
                                                office of Agent of State, us at present organized.
                                                By the terms of the compromise with the bondholders,
                                                made in 1846, the State is required to keep an
                                                office in New York for the transfer of our stocks
                                                and the payment of the interest, on them. But this
                                                agreement can be complied with fully by selecting
                                                some responsible bank, in such manner as mar be
                                                determined upon by the Legislature, to perform the
                                                duties that are now devolved upon the Agent of
                                                State. Under the present system the risk attending
                                                the solvency of a bank has to be incurred, for the
                                                Agent, having no means of safe keeping the money
                                                remitted to him by the Treasurer of State, deposits
                                                it in bank,and in payment of interest to the holders
                                                of our stocks gives his checks upon the banks.
                                          So much of the business therefore, being necessarily
                                                done through the bank, I am of the opinion that the
                                                rest of it could be devolved upon the bank, with
                                                increased safety and economy to the State.
                                          In 1846 the State of Indiana made an adjustment with
                                                her creditors, under which the former State Bonds
                                                were to be surrendered and cancelled upon certain
                                                conditions, and new stocks issued in exchange. Out
                                                of this adjustment sprung the Indiana Five per cent.
                                                Stocks, as known in the New York market.
                                          One of the conditions of the adjustment was, that the
                                                State should establish an agency in the City of New
                                                York for the transfer of these stocks and the
                                                payment of the interest upon them.
                                          By express enactment of the Legislature, it was
                                                provided that these new certificates of stocks
                                                should be transferable only at the agency in the
                                                city of New York, on books provided for that
                                                purpose. When stock was transferred the old
                                                certificate was taken up and cancelled, and a new
                                                one issued, made payable to the person to whom the
                                                transfer was made. These certificates were not
                                                payable to bearer, did not pass by delivery from
                                                hand to hand, and were not negotiable in the sense
                                                of the law merchant. It was expressly intended they
                                                should not be. At and before the time of the
                                                adjustment spoken of it was claimed by the State
                                                that numbers of her bonds, which had been deposited
                                                in New York, or hypothecated for small sums of
                                                money, and for which the State had received little
                                                or no consideration, had been improperly and
                                                fraudulently put into circulation. But as they were
                                                genuine, made payable to bearer, and the property in
                                                them passed by mere delivery, she could not do
                                                otherwise than recognize them as valid obligations.
                                                These circumstances led to the peculiar provisions
                                                in regard to the new stocks. To carry out the new
                                                arrangement, printed forms of the certificates of
                                                stocks, signed by the Auditor and Treasurer of the
                                                State of Indiana, were deposited with the State
                                                Agent, in the City of New York, to be by him
                                                countersigned and filled up as to dates, amounts,
                                                names of parties, and registered in books provided
                                                by the State for that purpose, it is not improper to
                                                state here that this form and mode of transfer,
                                                before being enacted into a law, was submitted to
                                                and met the approval of Charles Butler, Esq , the
                                                agent and representative of the bondholders, at the
                                                time of the adjustment | referred to, as I am
                                                informed and believe. Fears were entertained
                                                however, that by the fraud or connivance of the
                                                State Agent, false certificates, might be issued and
                                                frauds perpetrated. Accordingly. the State
                                                Legislature, by an act which  took effect on the 11th
                                                day of March, 1859, changed the mode and place of
                                                issue of certificates of stock.
                                          By this act it was provided, that thereafter no
                                                certificates of stock should be issued by the Agent
                                                of State, but that on the presentation to him of
                                                certificates of transfer, he should receipt for
                                                them, and immediately transmit them to the Auditor
                                                of State, at Indianapolis; that the Auditor should
                                                cancel them and file them in his office, for
                                                preservation and reference, and issue, in the name
                                                of the person to whom the transfer was to be made,
                                                new certificates of stock, to be signed by him and
                                                the Treasurer of State, and after registering them
                                                in a book to be provided by the Auditor for that
                                                purpose, send them to the Agent of State, to be by
                                                him registered and delivered by a proper person,
                                                upon presentation of the receipt. The fourth section
                                                of this act declares that any certificate of stock
                                                issued or transferred in violation of the provision
                                                of this act shall be deemed fraudulent and void as
                                                against the State of Indiana. It will be perceived
                                                that this act throws additional and, in my opinion,
                                                abundant safeguards around the issue of the stock.
                                                To avoid the dangers and temptations which this
                                                change in the law was designed to guard against, as
                                                soon as the new law went into operation, the blank
                                                certificates, signed by the officers of State, in
                                                the hands of the State Agent, should have been
                                                promptly withdrawn by the officers of State and
                                                destroyed. This was not done.
                                          When Col. Hudson the present State Agent, came into
                                                office, early in February, 1861, he found in the
                                                office in New York, three bound volumes of the
                                                forms, which he immediately cancelled, by punching a
                                                hole through the signature of each form.
                                    
                                    
                                          STOVER FRAUD.
                                          In this connection I invite your attention to the
                                                gigantic forgeries of Indiana five per cent, stocks
                                                which have been committed in New York.
                                          The Hon. James A. Cravens was elected State Agent in
                                                February. 1859. He held the office about nine
                                                months, during which time D. C. Stover acted as his
                                                clerk. He then resigned, and Mr. Stover was
                                                appointed by Gov. Willard, to fill the vacancy. He
                                                continued in office under this appointment until
                                                February, 1861, when he was succeeded by Col.
                                                Hudson, the present incumbent, who had been duly
                                                elected by the Legislature. The forged certificates
                                                of stock were executed upon the blank forms left in
                                                the office of the Agent of State, which had been
                                                signed by W. R, Noffsinger as State Treasurer and H.
                                                E, Talbott as State Auditor. These gentlemen came
                                                into office early in 1855, and went out early in
                                                1857, having served two years. The forgery consisted
                                                in falsely filling up the blanks as to dates, names
                                                of payees and amounts, and signing the name of James
                                                A. Cravens as Agent of State. The forged
                                                certificates, so far as I am advised, bear date in
                                                March, April and June, 1859, thus purporting to be
                                                executed during the period in which Mr. Cravens was
                                                State Agent, though I believe they were executed and
                                                issued at a latter date. I am informed by Col.
                                                Hudson that the forged certificates were all made
                                                payable to Samuel Hallett except about $300.000
                                                payable to a person by the name of Deschaux. He
                                                further informs me that the whole amount issued, so
                                                far as he has been able to discover, is $2,538,000,
                                                of which amount $1,295,000 has been retired and
                                                destroyed. Col. Hudson states that he discovered the
                                                existence of this spurious stock in a few weeks
                                                after he came into office, and immediately charged
                                                the matter upon Mr. Stover, who confessed it all,
                                                but said there was only about $200,000kept secret,
                                                he, and those operation with him, would take up and
                                                destroy them, so that nobody should loose anything
                                                by them Col. Hudson further says, not knowing what
                                                might be the liability of the State upon these
                                                certificates he deemed it highly important for
                                                important for her interest that they should be
                                                gotten off the market and destroyed, and, for that
                                                purpose, agreed with them, for the time; to
                                                communicate the matter to nobody, without, however,
                                                giving them any assurance that they should not be
                                                ultimately exposed and prosecuted. 
                                          The knowledge of this forgery was first communicated to
                                                me about the latter part of January last, by Messrs.
                                                James M. Ray and Jesse J. Brown, two of the Loan
                                                Commissioners, appointed by the State to negotiate
                                                her War Loan. They had learned it from Mr. Lanier.
                                                of the firm of Wilson, Lanier & Co., who had
                                                discovered it in some way about the first of
                                                December previous. I immediately repaired to New
                                                York, and in company with the Hon. John P. Usher,
                                                then the Attorney general of Indiana, and Esq. Jesse
                                                J. Brown, endeavored to investigate the affair. In
                                                the opinion and confidence entertained by Col
                                                Hudson, and some other gentlemen who had been
                                                consulted, that Mr. Stover and those acting with him
                                                would retire the fraudulent stocks I did not share,
                                                and wan not for that or any other reason in favor of
                                                delaying their exposure and prosecution a single
                                                hour. 
                                          Accordingly, I proceeded at once to place all the facts
                                                of which I had any knowledge in the possession of Mr
                                                Hall the District Attorney prosecuting the pleas of
                                                the State, for the city of New York.
                                          The crime had been committed in New York, and to the
                                                laws and authorities of that State its punishment
                                                belonged.
                                          Mr. Hall, after deliberation, and such investigation as
                                                he could make, determine-  ed that an exposure and
                                                prosecution of the parties at that time would be
                                                highly inexpedient, and informed me that he took the
                                                responsibility of deferring any public disclosure
                                                and prosecution until such time as in his judgment
                                                it was proper to make them.
                                          Matters thus stood from February until about the 27th
                                                day of May, when, learning that the affair had
                                                become public in New York, and believing that no
                                                reason could exist for further delay in the
                                                prosecution, I caused the arrest of Mr. Stover, who
                                                was then in this State, and sent him to New York. On
                                                his arrest he freely consented to go, and waived all
                                                process of formal authority. The Hon. John F.
                                                Kibbey, then acting Attorney General, by my
                                                direction proceeded to New York, and under the
                                                instructions of Mr. Hall, filed a complaint before
                                                the Grand Jury, in the name of the State of Indiana,
                                                and demanded an investigation.
                                          The Grand Jury returned bills of indictment against
                                                Stover and Hallett. At the September term of the
                                                Court in which the bills were pending, the Court
                                                quashed the indictments against Hallett, on the
                                                ground that it was no crime against the
                                                laws'of New York to forge certificates or
                                                obligations purporting on their face to be executed
                                                by the State of Indiana. From this decision Mr. Hail
                                                has prosecuted a writ of error to the Court of
                                                Appeals, but no decision thereon has been had.
                                          The indictments against Stover are still pending.
                                          When this forgery was first made public, Indiana
                                                securities were suddenly depressed in the market
                                                from ten to twenty per cent., but soon after rallied
                                                to nearly or quite the former rates.
                                          To avoid all embarrassment in the future, which might
                                                arise from the existence of the forged Certificates,
                                                I recommend that the Auditor of State be authorized
                                                to procure a new plate, differing in form and
                                                appearance from the old, upon which new certificates
                                                shall be printed, and that the holders of all
                                                genuine stocks be requested to surrender them and
                                                receive instead certificates of the new
                                                impression.
                                    
                                    
                                          JULY INTEREST ON STOCKS.
                                          Many of the Western States, among them Ohio and
                                                Illinois, were making provision in New York to pay
                                                the interest on their debt, in coin, in order to
                                                maintain the credit of their stocks.
                                          As the credit of Indiana had received a shock by the
                                                development of forgeries of her stocks, and as the
                                                circulation of many of the Free Banks of Indiana was
                                                based upon Indiana stocks, it seemed to me
                                                especially important that she should take the same
                                                course, in order to assure her creditors and the
                                                public, that her ability and disposition to pay her
                                                debts, were in no wise disturbed or impaired by this
                                                assault upon her credit. Accordingly. I instructed
                                                Mr. Harvey, Treasurer of State, to provide if he
                                                could upon reasonable terms, the coin with which to
                                                pay the July interest upon our stocks. This he did.
                                                upon the terms and in the manner stated in his
                                                report. The announcement of the purpose of the State
                                                to pay her interest in coin, had an immediate and
                                                salutary effect in restoring confidence and bringing
                                                back the value of our stocks to its former
                                                standard.
                                          At the time I directed the payment of the July interest
                                                in coin, the premium on coin was very small, but has
                                                since increased so greatly as to forbid the like
                                                arrangement for the January interest.
                                    
                                    
                                          COMMON SCHOOLS.
                                          The operations of the common school system for the past
                                                two years have been quite successful. The amendments
                                                made to the School Law at the last regular session,
                                                so far as I can learn, have worked well, and met
                                                with general approval. The report of Prof. Miles J.
                                                Fletcher, Superintendent of Public Instruction, for
                                                the year 1861, is laid before you, but the report of
                                                the present Superintendent, Samuel L. Rugg, for the
                                                year 1862, has not been completed. The Rev. Samuel
                                                K. Hoshour was appointed to fill the vacancy
                                                occasioned by the death of Mr. Fletcher, who held
                                                the office until his successor was duly elector and
                                                qualified.
                                    
                                    
                                          DEARTH OF MILES J. FLETCHER.
                                          The death of Miles J. Fletcher was a misfortune to the
                                                State. Possessed of fine talents, highly educated,
                                                endowed with every accomplishment that can make a
                                                man attractive in society, with a heart full of the
                                                warmest affections and most generous impulses, he
                                                united with all these an indomitable energy of
                                                character that gave no rest, and ever pressed him
                                                forward in the path of duty. His industry was a
                                                marvel, and the amount of labor he accomplished
                                                wonderful. The duties of his office he discharged;
                                                not scantily as a task, but with a devotion and
                                                pleasure that were satisfied only with a full
                                                performance. The cause of education he regarded of
                                                the first importance, and the vocation and calling
                                                of the educator the most honorable and dignified,
                                                next to that of the Christian Minister. The
                                                misfortunes of his country deeply afflicted him. and
                                                notwithstanding the delight he took in the discharge
                                                of his official duties, and his untiring devotion to
                                                the education of youth, he would have resigned his
                                                office and gone to the field, had be not been
                                                dissuaded by his friends, who urged that he could
                                                serve his country better in the position he then
                                                held. He devoted much time, labor and money to the
                                                care of the sick and wounded soldiers. He visited
                                                the hospitals and the field of battle to hunt up and
                                                minister to the neglected and dy-  ing, and in carrying a
                                                wounded man upon a steamboat at Pittsburgh Landing,
                                                shortly after the battle of Shiloh, suffered a
                                                bodily injury, from which most likely he could never
                                                recover. When he was killed, he had started upon
                                                another mission of mercy to the army. I was standing
                                                by his side at the moment of his death, and never
                                                before did I have brought home to me that passage of
                                                Scripture which declares, "That in the
                                                midst of life we are in death." Had I been
                                                asked a moment before who among all the young men of
                                                Indiana, bade fairest for a life of great usefulness
                                                and fame. I would have answered, Miles J.
                                                Fletcher.
                                    
                                    
                                          BENEVOLENT
                                                INSTITUTION'S.
                                          The Reports of the Boards of Trustees of the Asylum for
                                                the Blind Institution for the Deaf and Dumb and
                                                Hospital for the Insane are herewith submitted. The
                                                management of these Institution for the past two
                                                years has been eminently successful and
                                                satisfactory. The Superintendents have displayed
                                                ability and fidelity, as well as the subordinate
                                                officers and teachers, and I commend the reports to
                                                your especial consideration and the Institutions to
                                                your fostering care and attention.
                                    
                                    
                                          PRISONS OF THE NORTH AND SOUTH.
                                          At the regular session of the Legislature in 1861, the
                                                sum of 10,000 dollars was appropriated for the
                                                purchase of material; and construction of the
                                                Northern Prison located at Michigan City, for the
                                                year 1861, and a like sum for the year 1862. At the
                                                extra session in 1861, the sum of 30,000 dollars was
                                                appropriated for materials and construction of the
                                                Northern Prison, and for the support of convicts,
                                                and the payment of the expenses incurred for the
                                                month of January, 1861.
                                          At the same session a law was passed for the transfer
                                                or 200 convicts from the Southern Prison, but not
                                                provision was made for their return in case their
                                                labor should be required. At the same session an act
                                                was passed providing that persons sent to the
                                                penitentiary from counties north of the National
                                                Road should be confined in the Northern Prison. The
                                                work in the construction of the Prison was
                                                vigorously pressed in the summer and fall of 1861,
                                                and it was found necessary by the Board of
                                                Directors, in order to keep convict labor e ployed,
                                                to anticipate, and draw upon the appropriation made
                                                for the construction of the prison in 1862; so that
                                                when the work for the year 1861 was closed up, there
                                                remained unexpended of the fund appropriated for the
                                                construction of the in 1862, but about 3,000
                                                dollars. It was apparent, then, that the labor of
                                                the convicts could not be employed in the
                                                construction of the prison during the year 1862, for
                                                the want of means with which to purchase the
                                                necessary materials. The labor of the convicts could
                                                not be leased or hired out to contractors for the
                                                want of shops in the prison in which they could be
                                                employed. To work the convicts out of the prison and
                                                about the town, would be so expensive, in the
                                                employment of guards, as to make their labor
                                                unprofitable, beside there was no authority for
                                                doing so, except as connected with the construction
                                                of the Prison.
                                          As the matter stood, it was inevitable that the convict
                                                labor should be almost wholly unemployed throughout
                                                the year 1802, and must so continue until the prison
                                                shops were constructed, when the labor might be
                                                hired to contractors as in other prisons. If the
                                                shops were constructed in 1862, this labor could be
                                                made remunerative through the year 1863, but if not
                                                constructed until 1863, this could not happen until
                                                1864. It was evident that the State would sustain a
                                                great loss by the delay in the construction of the
                                                shops and accordingly the Board of Directors
                                                convened in this city in February last, and myself
                                                and other State officers invited to be present for
                                                consultation; and after full consideration of the
                                                subject it was believed by all to be clearly to the
                                                interest of the State that the work of construction
                                                of the shops should be commenced at the earliest
                                                moment, provided the contract could be let at fair
                                                prices, and the contract, bring fully advised of the
                                                condition of affairs, should be willing to await the
                                                action of the Legislature for his pay. The Board of
                                                Directors then proceeded to advertise for proposals
                                                for the work, and a public letting was had. I
                                                directed Mr. John B. Stumph, of this city reputed to
                                                be an honest and capable builder, to be present at
                                                the letting, and see that contract was properly
                                                made, and in accordance with the plans and
                                                specifications before that time adopted by the State
                                                for the construction of the shops. The contract upon
                                                terms highly favorable to the State. This business
                                                is a proper subject for Legislative investigation,
                                                which I hope will be promptly made and that means
                                                will be speedily provided to pay the contractor the
                                                amount which shall be found to be honestly due. 
                                          The report of the Board of Directors, together with
                                                that of the Warden and Sea-  superintendent, are
                                                herewith the general administration of the of the
                                                prison have been satisfactory, and the Hoard of
                                                Directors have manifested much zeal and ability in
                                                the discharge of the important duties instructed to
                                                them.
                                          The report of the Board of Directors and Warden of the
                                                Southern Prison, at Jeffersonville, to herewith
                                                submitted. The affairs of this prison, I believe,
                                                have been well managed, and I know of no just
                                                grounds for complaint. I recommend how-ever, that
                                                the management, condition and wants of both Prisons,
                                                receive the early and thorough consideration of the
                                                Legislature.
                                    
                                    
                                          UNITED STATES ARSENAL AND
                                                ARMORY.
                                          At the last session of Congress an act was passed
                                                appropriating $100,000 for the purchase of grounds
                                                and construction of buildings and necessary
                                                machinery for an Arsenal and Armory to be located in
                                                this city.
                                          The grounds have been purchased and the construction of
                                                the buildings will be commenced as soon as the
                                                Legislature shall have relinquished the jurisdiction
                                                over such grounds, so far as required by the laws of
                                                the United States.
                                    
                                    
                                          CONGRESSIONAL DONATION.
                                          On the 2d day of July, 1862, the Congress of the United
                                                States passed an act donating to each of the States
                                                not in rebellion against the Government, an a-mount
                                                of public lands equal to 30,000 acres for each
                                                Senator and Representative in Congress to which the
                                                States are respectively entitled by the
                                                approportionment Indiana to 390,000 acres. Whenever
                                                there are public lands in the State, subject to sale
                                                at private entry at $1 25 per acre, the quantity to
                                                which the State is entitled shall be selected from
                                                such lands, but if there are no such lands in the
                                                State, or not enough, the Secretary of the Interior
                                                is to issue to the State land scrip for the
                                                requisite number of acres This scrip cannot be
                                                located by the State to which it is issued, but must
                                                be sold; but the purchaser may locate it upon any of
                                                the unappropriated lands of the United States
                                                subject to sale at private entry at $1,25 or less
                                                per acre.
                                          There being no public lands in this State for sale at
                                                private entry, held by Government at 1.25 per acre.
                                                Indiana is entitled to receive her donation in
                                                scrip.
                                          This donation is made up on the following
                                                conditions:
                                          
                                                --That all moneys derived from the
                                                  sale of lands or script shall be invested in
                                                  stocks of United States, or of the States, or some
                                                  other safe stocks yielding not less than five per
                                                  centum per annum, on the par value.
                                                --that no monies so invested shall
                                                  constitute a perpetual fund, the capital of which
                                                  shall never be diminished, except as hereinafter
                                                  stated.
                                                --The interested on the stocks to be
                                                  inviolably appropriated by the State, to the
                                                  endowment and support of at least one College in
                                                  which the leading object shall be, without
                                                  excluding scientific and other classical studies,
                                                  and including Military Tactics, to teach such
                                                  branches of learning as are related to Agriculture
                                                  and the Mechanic arts.
                                                --If any portion of the fund thus
                                                  invested shall, by any contingency be lost, it
                                                  shall be fully restored by the State.
                                                --That no portion of the said fund
                                                  shall be applied to the purchase, repair, or
                                                  erection of any building, but that a sum not
                                                  exceeding ten per cent. of the original amount may
                                                  be expended for the purchase of sites or
                                                  experiment farms.
                                                --No State shall be entitled to the
                                                  donation, unless the Legislature shall express its
                                                  acceptance thereof, within tow years from the date
                                                  of the approval of the Act by the
                                                  President.
                                          
                                          I recommend that the Legislature promptly express its
                                                acceptance of the grant, pledging the faith of the
                                                State for the performance of the conditions upon
                                                which it is made.
                                          The necessity for scientific instruction in agriculture
                                                is generally acknowledged, and Congress intended by
                                                this magnificent donation to provide means for the
                                                permanent establishment of at least one efficient
                                                Agricultural College in each State.
                                          The question presents itself as to the disposition
                                                which shall be made of the grant. Shall it be given
                                                to the State University, or apportioned among all
                                                the Colleges in the State, upon such terms and
                                                conditions as the Legislature may prescribe; or
                                                shall a new institution be created expressly
                                                designed to carry out the will of Congress? It may
                                                be difficult now to determine the question upon the
                                                fact that we cannot know how much may be realized
                                                from the sale of scrip. If an amount should be
                                                realized large enough to endow respectable and
                                                successful Professorships in each of the Colleges
                                                now in the State, attaching to them experiment
                                                farms, it would perhaps be the best disposition of
                                                it that could be made. But if it should not be large
                                                for such division, which I apprehend will be the
                                                case, then I recommend that it be applied to the
                                                establishment of an Institution for Agricultural and
                                                Military instruction, to which the children of
                                                soldiers who shall die in the service during this
                                                war, shall be admitted free of charge.
                                          OLIVER P. MORTON. OLIVER P.
                                                MORTON.
                                          
                                                January 9th, 1863.
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, January 9. 1863.
                              
                              Mr. MILLER offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                          Judiciary Committee to inquire whether
                                    further legislation is necessary for the enforcement of the 13th
                                    article ot the Constitution of Indiana.
                              
                                    ARBITRARY ARRESTS.
                                    Mr. GIVEN offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, Many citizens of
                                                  this State have been arrested by persons acting,
                                                  or pretending to be acting, under the authority of
                                                  the General Government, and have been confined in
                                                  military prisons or camps without any public
                                                  charge being preferred against them, and without
                                                  any opportunity being allowed them to learn or
                                                  disprove the charges made or alleged to be made
                                                  against them and refused a trial--there being no
                                                  insurrection or rebellion or any other obstruction
                                                  to the constitutional authority of the Government
                                                  existing within this State; and
                                                  WHEREAS, It is a sacred
                                                  right, guaranteed to every citizen by the
                                                  Constitution of our common country, that he shall
                                                  not be deprived of his liberty, unless by due
                                                  process of law, and when arrested shall have a
                                                  speedy and public trial by an impartial jury, be
                                                  informed of the nature and cause of the
                                                  accusation, and be confronted by the witnesses
                                                  against him; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, By the House of Representatives, That
                                                  the General Assembly of the State of Indiana do
                                                  hereby denounce and condemn all such arrests as
                                                  acts of tyranny, as flagrant violations of the
                                                  rights of the people, as unwarranted by the laws
                                                  and Constitution under which we live, and do
                                                  hereby demand that all such arrests shall
                                                  hereafter cease.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. NEWMAN moved, to lay the resolution on the table.
                                    The motion was rejected by yeas 39, nays 56.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM opposed the adoption of the resolution, A grave
                                          charge was brought against the Government in it. He had
                                          not heard of any arbitrary arrests. He thought that
                                          arrests enough had not been, made of traitors against the
                                          Government.
                                    Messrs. PACKARD, BROWN and FERRIS replied, bringing proofs of
                                          such arrests as indicated in the resolution, and
                                          denouncing them with indignant patriotism. They were for
                                          the resolution, because they were resolved to maintain the
                                          liberty of the citizen against all acts of despotism on
                                          the part of the Government. Bitterly did they denounce the
                                          acts of abolition demagogues and traitors in this
                                          regard--men who would overthrow the liberties of the white
                                          man, claiming everything for the "free American
                                          citizen of African descent."
                                    After farther debate, in which Messrs. BRANHAM, NEWMAN, VAN
                                          BUSKIRK, HARNEY, and others, took part--
                                    Mr. ROBERTS argued at length in favor of the resolutions. He
                                          himself knew of arbitrary arrests. He brought two notable
                                          instances of such arrests, in his own section of the
                                          State, to the notice of the House. He wanted the facts
                                          brought here. He was for the most thorough investigation,
                                          and for protecting the liberty of the citizen at all
                                          hazards.
                                    Mr. CASON inquired what right this body had to inquire into
                                          what other departments of the Government had done? These
                                          arrests had been made under the General Government. He
                                          undertook to say that when the facts came to light the
                                          Government would be fully justified. He knew of an arrest
                                          in Boone county of a man who, at a Democratic meeting, had
                                          hurrahed for Jeff. Davis. He richly deserved, not only
                                          being arrested, but being hung between heaven and
                                          earth--to rot.
                                    Mr. MILROY was in favor of the resolution. If a government
                                          did wrong, and could not be assailed--could not be held to
                                          the Constitution and the laws--what sort of a Government
                                          have we? Was it the Government of a free people?
                                    Mr. NIBLACK argued in favor of the resolution. Grave errors
                                          had been committed. Either arrests had been made
                                          despotically or guilty persons had been suffered to escape
                                          punishment. Nobody would deny this. A motion had been made
                                          to lay the resolution on the table, and a test vote was
                                          had upon it. He was for completing the record by the
                                          adoption of the resolution.
                                    Mr. MILLER demanded the previous question.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON moved to adjourn.
                                    On this motion tie yeas and nays were demanded by ten
                                          members, and being ordered and taken, resulted--yeas 40,
                                          nays 58.
                                    So the House refused to adjourn.
                                    The demand for the previous question being sustained, the
                                          resolution was adopted by yeas 58, nays 30.
                                    Mr. BROWN offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The Constitution of
                                                  the United States and of the State of Indiana
                                                  solemnly guarantees to the people thereof freedom
                                                  of speech, freedom of the press, the sacred right
                                                  of the writ of habeas corpus, security from arrest
                                                  without due process or law, and that in all
                                                  criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the
                                                  right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial
                                                  jury of the State and district wherein the crime
                                                  shall have been committed, and to be informed of
                                                  the nature and cause of the accusation, to be
                                                  confronted with the witnesses against him, and
                                                  have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses,
                                                  counsel, &c., and,
                                                  WHEREAS, We have witnessed
                                                  within the past twenty months the violation of all
                                                  these provisions so indispensable to a free
                                                  government and necessary for the enjoyment of
                                                  public liberty, by means aliko arbitrary, violent,
                                                  insulting and degrading to a degree unknown to any
                                                  Government on earth, except those avowedly and
                                                  notoriously wicked, cruel and despotic; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, We, the
                                                  representatives of the people, now assembled in
                                                  legislative capacity, charged with the high duty
                                                  of enacting laws for the protection of the people
                                                  and the preservation of their rights, deem it our
                                                  first duty to ascertain the facts connected with
                                                  the criminal usurpations and wrongs which have
                                                  been practiced by political arrests, and in order
                                                  to give those who have unlawfully mads them, or
                                                  caused them to be made, the prominence to a
                                                  position of lasting infamy their conduct merits
                                                  alike as punishment and as a warning to others
                                                  hereafter, and to enable us to act intelligently
                                                  and efficiently in providing such legislation as
                                                  will prevent their repetition; therefore
                                                  Resolved, That a committee of
                                                  seven be appointed by this House, whose duty it
                                                  shall be to report  to this body the number
                                                  of arrests for political causes made within the
                                                  limits of the State, and all the facts connected
                                                  with each, showing by whose order, procurement or
                                                  influence, either immediate or remote, the arrests
                                                  were made, the place, time and manner of the same,
                                                  and by whom made; the charges (if any) made
                                                  against them, and the probability of their truth
                                                  or falsity; the place and duration of their
                                                  imprisonment, and their treatment; the trial, or
                                                  opportunity for trial, which they may have had, if
                                                  any; the circumstances of their discharge, if
                                                  discharged; the injury to their persons or
                                                  families (if any) which have resulted from their
                                                  un lawful detention, and the damages or pecuniary
                                                  loss sustained by them, in consequence of their
                                                  imprisonment.
                                                  Resolved, That said committee
                                                  also inquire into and report if there have been
                                                  obstructions to the free exercise of the liberty
                                                  of speech or press, or any abridgement thereof
                                                  within the past two years in this State, and if
                                                  so, report the facts connected therewith.
                                                  Resolved, That said committee
                                                  be authorized to report a bill that shall contain
                                                  provisions adequate to protect the people from the
                                                  arbitrary commission of unconstitutional acts, by
                                                  such penalties and punishment upon those guilty of
                                                  the same as may effectually prevent their
                                                  repetition, and provide means for redress and
                                                  restitution by damages or otherwise to requite
                                                  their wrongs, while serving as an exemplary
                                                  warning to other usurpers in all time to come.
                                                  Resolved, That said committee
                                                  be and are hereby authorized and empowered to send
                                                  for persons and papers, or visit any locality
                                                  within the State, that may beseemed necessary to
                                                  the fall and complete discharge of their duty.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. TARKINGTON moved to strike out the preamble.
                                    On motion by Mr. PACKARD the motion was laid on table.
                                    Mr. PACKARD demanded the previous question.
                                    The demand was sustained.
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded on the adoption of the
                                          resolution, and being ordered and taken resulted--yeas 60,
                                          nays 26--as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett,
                                                  Atkison. Bird, Blocher, Bregan, Brown, Burton,
                                                  Collins, Cook, Donaldson, Ferris, Garvin, Given,
                                                  Hall, Hanna, Harden, of Washington, Hardin, of
                                                  Perry, Harney, Hatfield, Holcomb, Hon, Howard,
                                                  Howell, Howk, Humphreys, Kemp, of Dubois, Kemp, of
                                                  Vigo, Lake, Lasselle, Lee, Lemmon, of Harrison,
                                                  Lemmon, of Spencer, Mason, McGauchey, Miller,
                                                  Milroy, Mutz, Niblack, O'Brien, of
                                                  Martin, Osborn, Packard, Pendleton, Priest, Puett,
                                                  Reitz, Richardson, Rippey, Roberts, Robinson,
                                                  Shaffer, Shoaff,of Allen, Shoaff, of Jay, Spencer,
                                                  Stone, Veach, Waterman, Williams, Wolf, Woolen,
                                                  and Mr. Speaker--60.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Anderson,
                                                  Baker, Burnham, Budd, Cass, Chambers, Forester,
                                                  Gregg, Gregory, Griffith, Higgins, Hostetter,
                                                  Hutchings, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick, Kilgore,
                                                  Moorman, Mustard, Noyes, O'Brien, of
                                                  Hamilton, Pettibone, Roe, Tarkington, Van Buskirk
                                                  and Woodruff--26.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the resolutions were adopted.
                              
                              
                                    GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                    Mr. MOORMAN from the select committee appointed to wait upon
                                          the Governor, reported that he would deliver his message
                                          this afternoon to the House of Representatives at such
                                          time as the House might designate.
                                    The SPEAKER, citing from the Constitution, said that a
                                          question arose whether, under that instrument, His
                                          Excellency could deliver his message to the House alone,
                                          or must he deliver it to the General Assembly in joint
                                          meeting? This question had never arisen before, and the
                                          Chair was at present unable to decide up on it. It would
                                          be remarked that the report was from the committee
                                          appointed en the part of the House alone, and not from the
                                          joint committee.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The SPEAKER said: Previous to the morning adjournment, a
                                          verbal report from the committee appointed to wait on the
                                          Governor to ascertain when he would deliver his message,
                                          had been submitted. That report had since, by the Chairman
                                          of the committee, been reduced to writing and now the
                                          Clerk would read it.
                                    The report set forth that His Excellency would deliver his
                                          message to the House of Representatives whenever they
                                          desired to hear him.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK offered a resolution, which was adopted, inviting
                                          the Senate to repair to the Hail of the House or
                                          Representatives instanter to hear the message of His
                                          Excellency.
                                    
                                          NEGRO EMANCIPATION.
                                          Mr ROBERTS introduced a bill [H R. 1] supplemental to
                                                an act for the enforcement of the 13th Article of
                                                the Constitution, with reference to negro
                                                emigration; which was read the first time and passed
                                                to the second reading.
                                    
                                    
                                          COMMON PLEAS COURTS.
                                          Mr. MASON offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                                instructing the Judiciary
                                                  Committee to inquire as to the
                                                expediency of abolishing the Common Pleas
                                                Courts.
                                    
                                    
                                          EMANCIPATION.
                                          Mr. WATERMAN offered a joint resolution instructing
                                                Senators and requesting Representatives in Congress
                                                to use all honorable means to defeat the project
                                                known as the compensated emancipation scheme, vote
                                                for the repeal of all laws heretofore passed looking
                                                to that end, and against all like measures hereafter
                                                to be introduced, which was referred to the
                                                  Committee on Federal
                                                Relations.
                                    
                                    
                                          ARBITRARY ARRESTS.
                                          Mr. GRIFFITH offered the following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That the unconditional Union men of
                                                  Indiana do not endorse any act of the General or
                                                  State Governments manifestly despotic in its
                                                  character, relative to arrests made by such
                                                  Governments, but that we hold it to be the duty of
                                                  every citizen of the United States to support the
                                                  constituted authorities thereof; therefore in this
                                                  period of rebellion against such authority, we
                                                  cheerfully submit to any acts of the General and
                                                  State Governments, the object of which is the
                                                  maintenance of the integrity of the Union and the
                                                  supremacy of the law, though the act should work
                                                  personal detriment to the individual, believing
                                                  that the powers that be do not propose to trample
                                                  upon the rights of any citizen, but otherwise to
                                                  protect and preserve the prosperity of the whole
                                                  people; and that as citizens we should be as ready
                                                  to perform our duty to our country as we are to
                                                  assert the rights and privileges which she has
                                                  given to us. 
                                                  
                                                
                                          

                                          

                                          On motion by Mr. HANNA the resolution was referred to
                                                the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations.
                                    
                                    
                                          NOTICE OF CONTEST.
                                          The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from
                                                Messrs. James K. Plummer and James H. Kennedy;
                                                giving notice of contest of the election of Messrs.
                                                Tarkington and Kendrick, occupying seats on the
                                                floor of the House as members from Marion. The
                                                communication set forth at length the grounds of the
                                                contest, charging fraud, force and violence at the
                                                polls by the friends of said Tarkington and
                                                Kendrick; which was read and referred to
                                                  Committee on Elections.
                                    
                                    
                                          GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                          The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from
                                                the President of the Senate, setting forth that
                                                because of the absence of a number of Senators there
                                                was no quorum, and consequently the Senate could not
                                                comply with the invitation of the House to repair to
                                                the Hall to hear the Governor's
                                                message.
                                          Mr. PACKARD offered the following resolution, which was
                                                adopted, and Messrs. Branham and Packard appointed a
                                                committee in pursuance thereof:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved,That the House of
                                                  Representatives, by a committee of two of its
                                                  members, be requested to wait on His Excellency,
                                                  the Governor, and say to him that, owing to the
                                                  Senate having no quorum, it is unable to attend in
                                                  the Hall of the House as a Senate; and that, as
                                                  there is no General Assembly at this day in
                                                  session, the House is unable to say when it can
                                                  have the pleasure of hearing the message of the
                                                  Governor of the State.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          [Mr. FERRIS submitted a resolution asking the Governor
                                                for information relative to drafted troops, and
                                                matters relative to the army from Indiana generally
                                                which was referred to a select committee of five--
                                                viz: Messrs. Ferris, Brown, Kilgore, Shaffer and
                                                Johnson.]
                                          A communication was received from His Excellency, the
                                                Governor, by his private Secretary.
                                          The SPEAKER said the document communicated by the
                                                Governor was his annual message, addressed to the
                                                General Assembly. The Constitution of our State
                                                provided that the Governor should give to the
                                                General Assembly information upon the condition of
                                                the State, and should recommend such measures as he
                                                might deem proper. It is under this provision of the
                                                constitution the Governor transmits his annual
                                                message. The constitution further provides that a
                                                General Assembly shall consist of a Senate and a
                                                House of Representatives, and that all veto messages
                                                should be communicated to the House in which the
                                                bill originated. In addition, it had been the
                                                uniform and invariable practice, since the
                                                organization of the State, for the Governor to
                                                deliver his annual message to the Legislature in
                                                joint convention assembled. For these reasons he was
                                                satisfied that the annual message of the Governor
                                                should be delivered to the Legislature in joint
                                                convention. But if he was mistaken in that opinion,
                                                there was another reason why the message should not
                                                  now be received. The House had
                                                been officially informed within an hour, that there
                                                was no quorum in the Senate. The House had thereupon
                                                passed a resolution, and which had been communicated
                                                to the Governor previous to the transmission of his
                                                message to the House, in which they declared that
                                                there was no General Assembly in
                                                session, and that the message could not be received
                                                until a quorum was present in the Senate. Wherefore
                                                the message could not be received and read. 
                                          Mr. LASSELLE moved that the message be received and the
                                                consideration of it postponed until to-morrow
                                                morning. Let gentlemen, he said, act coolly and
                                                calmly. He had his doubts upon the question. If the
                                                Senate were in session the Governor might legally
                                                transmit his message to each House separately. But
                                                the Senate not being in session, he did not know
                                                that we could receive the message.
                                          Mr. PUETT regretted that in high quarters efforts were
                                                made to defeat the action of this Legislature. It
                                                was an insult to every member who had taken the oath
                                                to support the Constitution, that such a
                                                communication should be transmitted by his
                                                Excellency. His Excellency had set the example to
                                                the bolters--the seceders--professing Union all the
                                                while. There was no Union, unless within the pale of
                                                the Constitution, where every Democrat stood. That
                                                message we should not receive as if from the
                                                Governor. He warned those who thought with him that
                                                it was time to stop. It was time we were retracting
                                                our steps. The people were determined that the light
                                                of liberty should not be put out. Since those who
                                                are in power over us began to violate the
                                                Constitution and the laws, we have been on the down
                                                hill road. Our authorities must stop. The people of
                                                this great and free State have told them to stop.
                                                The message would have been delivered as usual were
                                                it not feared that the two Houses, once together,
                                                would go into an election of United States Senators.
                                                He was for no such a arrangement. He was for no such
                                                trickery; no such clap trap. The honest way was the
                                                right way. The Governor could come in and deliver
                                                his message and no Democrat would attempt to into an
                                                election of any sort. The bolters, loud professors
                                                of love for the Union, were new secessionists, were
                                                trampling upon all constitutions, laws and
                                                precedents. Let us behave as men ought to behave
                                                toward one another, reverencing our oaths, with an
                                                eye single to our duties, and all would be
                                                right.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK protested at this juncture against
                                                endorsing any revolutionary  proceedings. He
                                                counseled moderation on all sides. He argued in
                                                favor of receiving the communication, from the
                                                Governor for the future consideration of the
                                                House.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM was willing to let bygones be bygones. He
                                                was ready to meet the gentlemen, in this crisis of
                                                our country, in the performance of the great duties
                                                imposed upon us by the people. He was for no more
                                                revolutions.
                                          Mr. KENDRICK indorsed every word the member from
                                                Jefferson, [Mr. Branham] had said. He admired the
                                                spirit of many of his Democratic friends on this
                                                floor. He admired the spirit of that old man from
                                                Putnam, [Mr. Puett]. He shook hands with him. in
                                                God's name, and acknowledging his
                                                responsibilities to the people who sent him here, he
                                                [Kendrick] would strike hands with every patriot,
                                                whether he called himself a Democrat or not.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE
                              
                                    SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1863.
                              
                              The question pending at the adjournment was the motion to
                                    re-consider the vote directing the Doorkeeper to bring in absent
                                    Senators.
                              Mr. McClurg withdrew his motion.
                              By the direction of the President the call was proceeded with 39
                                    Senators answered to their names. 
                              On motion by Mr. BROWN of Wells, further proceedings under the call
                                    were dispensed with.
                              
                                    PARTIZAN DECLARATION.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, It is desirable in
                                                  the present perilous and distracted condition of
                                                  the country to secure harmony in legislation and
                                                  unity in action, therefore be it.
                                                  
                                                  Resolved 1, That we are in
                                                  favor of a vigorous prosecution of the present war
                                                  within the limits of the Constitution and in
                                                  accordance with the recognized usages of civilized
                                                  warfare, for the suppression of the rebellion and
                                                  the restoration of the union of all the States,
                                                  and that all necessary appropriations should be
                                                  made by this General Assembly to assist the State
                                                  in answering all requisitions of the General
                                                  Government in the prosecution of such war and for
                                                  the payment of any proper expenses that have
                                                  accrued that have not heretofore been provided
                                                  for; and are opposed to obstructing in any manner,
                                                  whatever the General Government in the exercise of
                                                  any its legitimate powers.
                                                   That we are opposed to the creation
                                                  by this General Assembly of a State Military
                                                  Board, for the transaction of the military affairs
                                                  of the State or to interfere with, or
                                                  circumscribing the Constitutional military powers
                                                  of the Executive of the State.
                                                   That we are in favor of a rigid
                                                  economy in the public expenditures in every
                                                  department of the Government, civil or military,
                                                  and of a thorough and impartial investigation of
                                                  all past public expenditures, and the exposure of
                                                  fraud or corruption wherever found.
                                                   And, as it has been charged that
                                                  loyal citizens of the State of Indiana have been
                                                  arbitrarily arrested and imprisoned without legal
                                                  process or just cause, we will therefore favor, to
                                                  the extent of our power, the investigation of all
                                                  such charges, and insist that all persons
                                                  hereafter arrested, shall receive a prompt and
                                                  impartial trial, so far as is consistent with
                                                  public safety.
                                                   That it is the duty of this General
                                                  Assembly to make a fair equitable apportionment of
                                                  the State for Congressional and Legislative
                                                  purposes, making the Distracts in regular and
                                                  convenient form, and as near as may be with equal
                                                  population, and without reference to their
                                                  political character.
                                                   That it is the duty of this General
                                                  Assembly to elect United States Senators and State
                                                  officers, the election of which is imposed by law,
                                                  at the earliest practicable moment.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. WOLFE, the resolutions were referred to a
                                          select committee of nine.
                                    The PRESIDENT subsequently made this committee to consist of
                                          Messrs. Wolfe. Johnston, Williams, Hoagland, Cobb,
                                          Mansfield, Mellett, White and Davis of Vermillion.
                                    On motion by Mr. March, it was
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That when the Senate adjourn it
                                                  adjourn until Monday 2 o'clock p.m.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                              
                                    SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1863.
                              
                              
                                    GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                    Mr. PACKARD from a select committee appointed to wait on the
                                          Governor and inform him of the readiness of the House, as
                                          a constituent branch of the General Assembly, to hear his
                                          message, reported that the duties enjoined had been
                                          performed, and that is Excellency declined to appear in
                                          person before the two houses in joint Convention, as the
                                          Constitution of the State provides. 
                                    Mr. PACKARD offered a resolution that the House respectfully
                                          decline to receive the message of his
                                          Excellency's private Secretary, and that the same
                                          be returned to his Excellency, to be delivered hereafter
                                          by him in person to the General Assembly of Indiana, the
                                          House meanwhile notifying his Excellency when it will suit
                                          it's convenience to hear him.
                                    Mr. PACKARD detailed the circumstances of the interview of
                                          the Committee with the Governor. The manner of
                                          transmitting the message was an act of discourtesy to the
                                          House. It was a positive insult. This House should demand
                                          of every co-ordinate branch of the Government not only
                                          respectful consideration, but an adherence to the
                                          Constitution and laws and all the precedents grounded
                                          thereon. 
                                    Mr. FORESTER went into a legal argument to show that the
                                          method proposed by the Governor in transmitting his
                                          message was in accordance with the practice in Congress by
                                          the President, and also obtained in many of the States.
                                          The communicated, therefore, being respectful in its
                                          character, and not irregularly before the House, should be
                                          received and respectfully considered.
                                    Mr. NEWMAN followed in a like argument

                                    

                                    Mr. HARNEY argued to show that a long line of precedents had
                                          established the manner of delivering the
                                          Governor's Message. It was expected by the people
                                          that he should appear in person before the General
                                          Assembly and deliver it. This was a time which demanded of
                                          every man that he should do his duty. He would hold the
                                          Governor to his. He would tell him that this General
                                          Assembly was no mob, to have his communications
                                          contemptuously thrust in their faces by a clerk. He would
                                          hold that gentleman to precedent, usage, the Constitution
                                          and laws. No revolution should be attempted by him and his
                                          friends. In consideration of past usage, in consideration
                                          of the present crisis, in consideration of the character
                                          of this General Assembly, the Executive of this State must
                                          stand before the representatives of the sovereign people
                                          and give an account of the manner in which he had
                                          performed the momentous duties entrusted in his hands. The
                                          interests, the vital interests of the whole State, nay, of
                                          the whole country demanded this. Upon this the majority on
                                          this floor would Insist.
                                    Mr. VAN BUSKIRK argued in favor of receiving the message as
                                          the Governor had transmitted it.
                                    The SPEAKER, in explanation, said he had permitted the
                                          discussion to proceed thus far, although it was out of
                                          order, unless his decision of yesterday, that the message
                                          could not be received, was reversed by the House. The
                                          ruling yesterday was placed on two grounds; 1st. That the
                                          message should be delivered in joint convention, Although
                                          he had taken counsel of a number of gentlemen in high
                                          legal position, he had not yet been convinced that his
                                          position was erroneous. The second position was that there
                                          must be two Houses in session to constitute a General
                                          Assembly in the purview of the Constitution Of this there
                                          is no doubt. This House, then, had been officially
                                          notified, yesterday. that the other branch of the General
                                          Assembly was not in session; so that, therefore, no
                                          session of the General Assembly was being held. The
                                          Speaker did not desire to assume any responsibility not
                                          imposed on him, but he would execute the orders of this
                                          House. The House had appointed a committee to inform his
                                          Excellency that there was no General Assembly in session,
                                          and that it would not receive his message. So long as the
                                          resolution, adopted yesterday is not reconsidered, it is
                                          the duty of the Speaker to enforce it.
                                    Mr. MORGAN doubted somewhat the propriety of transmitting the
                                          message in a manner not customary; yet as it has been done
                                          we should receive it. We should not, in disrespectful
                                          terms, send it back to His Excellency. He could see
                                          nothing which would justify us in returning the message.
                                          The practice in the National Congress was referred to by
                                          him in support of his proposition.
                                    Mr. BROWN urged that the reception of the Governor's
                                          Message was a thing that could only be done in joint
                                          convention. That was written in the Constitution.-- Some
                                          good had arisen out of this discussion--some good at
                                          least. It had caused Republicans to look into the
                                          Constitution, an instrument which they had been trampling
                                          on for the last two years. His Excellency had, by one of
                                          his hirelings--a man whom he kept to sweep out his office
                                          sent his message to be flung contemptuously on the
                                          Speaker's desk.
                                    Mr. KENDRICK called the gentleman to order; he should not
                                          speak disrespectfully of the Governor's private
                                          secretary.
                                    Mr. BROWN repeated what he had said, and argued that the
                                          General Assembly must convene before, under the
                                          Constitution, the message could be received. If the
                                          Governor did not choose to give us his august presence, he
                                          should at least be held to the observance of the
                                          Constitution. He was not for running to Congress in these
                                          days of Abolitionism for precedents. The State of Indiana
                                          was one thing, and Congress was another. The message of
                                          the Governor of Indiana should be delivered to us as our
                                          fathers were accustomed to receive it. If we would but
                                          return to the practice of our fathers, the whole country
                                          brought to ruin by Abolition misrule, would soon again be
                                          reunited under one flag. This Legislature should pay
                                          respect to the construction which had been placed upon the
                                          Constitution and laws by Governors, Legislative bodies and
                                          courts of justice for the past twenty-five years.
                                    Mr. VAN BUSKIRK replied, repeating his argument, relying upon
                                          Congressional precedents and customs in other States.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON took a like view of the matter; going to Great
                                          Britain, and adducing the practice in the English
                                          parliament to show that his Excellency's message
                                          ought to be received.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM said that the Governor was ready to deliver his
                                          message yesterday at two o'clock. There being no
                                          quorum in the Senate he could not deliver it in person. He
                                          (Branham) was confident no disrespect was meant toward the
                                          House by the manner in which circumstances had forced his
                                          Excellency to transmit Ms message.
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK, (Mr. Holcomb in the chair) argued relying on
                                          precedents, that the message must be d livered not to the
                                          Senate, not to the House but to the General Assembly. Was
                                          there a General Assembly in session yesterday? What did
                                          this House legislatively say yesterday? You said under
                                          oath there was no General Assembly in session yesterday.
                                          You said that you would not receive this message.  The presiding
                                          officer of this House must carry oat your orders and
                                          resolutions.-- He said to his republican friends that it
                                          was time for them to pause; to consider what they were
                                          doing. You come here, take an oath to support the
                                          constitution, and in twenty-four hours you secede from the
                                          Legislative halls, and by revolutionary conduct prevent
                                          all business. You denounce revolution in the South--and
                                          justly do you denounce it, for infamous traitors are
                                          engaged in attempting; to overthrow the constitution--you
                                          do all this, yet you at home are revolutionists! Pause and
                                          consider, gentlemen, what you are doing. If you have a
                                          right to say that you will not have United States Senators
                                          elected, that you will revolutionize to prevent necessary
                                          legislation, has not the majority the same right to say
                                          that they are opposed to your measures-- nay, even to the
                                          war itself? Because traitors had seceded from the Union in
                                          the South, it did not justify Republicans in seceding from
                                          the Legislature of Indiana. He had been told before this
                                          Legislature met that the election of United States
                                          Senators would be prevented by bolting. O yes!, said his
                                          Republican friends, this would be revolution, but only on
                                          a small scale! Don't tempt us too far, gentlemen!
                                          if you determine that we shall not elect United States
                                          Senators, we may come to the conclusion that your
                                          Republican Governor may manage the affairs of the State of
                                          Indiana without money. The majority will not submit to
                                          dictation by the minority, You can't dictate to
                                          us. If there is no legislation you will be held
                                          responsible. We, the Democracy, are determined to do our
                                          duty to the people of the State, and, if necessary, every
                                          one of us will resign and appeal again to the people,
                                          confident of an endorsement of our conduct and an emphatic
                                          condemnation of yours.
                                    Mr. GREGORY urged the reception of the message. A little
                                          informality should be overlooked. He was opposed to doing
                                          any thing that would widen the breach between the Governor
                                          and the House, He urged coolness, calmness and
                                          moderation.
                                    Mr. MILROY argued in favor of the resolution. This was a time
                                          of all times when precedent should be enforced. Tins was a
                                          time of all times when the dignity and rights of the white
                                          man should be enforced. When it came to talking about the
                                          rights of the black man he had nothing to say.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK supported the resolution, To say the least of it,
                                          the Governor, by the manner in which he sought to transmit
                                          his message, had violated all precedent, and had been
                                          guilty of an act of unquestionable discourtesy toward the
                                          House. The practice with regard to transmitting
                                          President's messages to the national Congress,
                                          referred to by gentlemen, was not applicable to our method
                                          of conducting affairs in Indiana. This was our State, and
                                          its government was our government, to be administered as
                                          it had been administered when the constitution and the
                                          laws were obeyed by all in authority. He indorsed fully
                                          the expressions of the Speaker [Mr. Buskirk] and he
                                          sincerely believed, as that gentleman had said, if this
                                          revolution should be persisted in by Republican members,
                                          and by his Excellency the Governor, and the Democratic
                                          members should resign, compelling also the resignation of
                                          the Republicans, appealing again to the people, in view of
                                          the conduct of the minority here, and especially since the
                                          President's emancipation proclamation of the 1st
                                          of January, there would not be returned here enough
                                          Abolitionists to break a quorum, prevent legislation,
                                          disorganize, revolutionize and secede, notwithstanding any
                                          oath of office they might have taken to support and obey
                                          the Constitution and the laws.
                                    Messrs. KEMP, HUMPHREYS, HOLCOMB and others continued the
                                          debate.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM, one of the Committee who had waited on the
                                          Governor said that he was sure his Excellency meant no
                                          disrespect to the House by the manner in which he had
                                          transmitted his message. Nothing should deter him from
                                          doing his duty as the representative of a free people?
                                          Never could he countenance revolution. The majority on
                                          this floor might elect every officer they wanted, but in
                                          his opinion the Constitution in certain circumstances
                                          justified the minority in bolting. He would bolt for one
                                          whenever in his judgment the public good demanded it. He
                                          would not bolt on a trifling occasion. But the right to
                                          bolt was guaranteed by the Constitution to the minority,
                                          He concluded, protesting his devotion to the Constitution
                                          and Union. He had tent one motto: One country, one destiny
                                          or one graveyard. Being interrogated by several members he
                                          admitted that the right of revolution belonged to a State
                                          and also the right of secession.
                                    Mr. ROBERTS. Two years ago the honorable gentleman from
                                          Jefferson [Mr. Branham) and myself occupied seats on this
                                          floor. I wish to ask him if then he did not declare
                                          against all bolting against all revolution?
                                    Mr. BRANHAM, I recognize under certain circumstances, the
                                          right of revolution. The only question is, does sufficient
                                          cause for revolution exist?
                                    Mr. BROWN. Will the gentleman be kind enough to define the
                                          difference between secession and revolution?
                                    Mr. BRANHAM. There is none at all. Secession is
                                          revolution.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK. Now, who are to determine the question as to
                                          whether there Is sufficient cause for revolution? 

                                    

                                    Mr. BRANHAM. The party proposing to revolutionize or
                                          secede.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK. That is good enough i secession doctrine,
                                          pronounced by a Republican.
                                    Mr. MOORMAN demanded the previous question.
                                    The demand was sustained by the House and under the operation
                                          of the previous question the resolution was adopted by the
                                          following vote:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs, Abbett,
                                                  Abdill, Atkison, Bird, Blocher, Bregan, Brown,
                                                  Barton, Collins, Cook, Davis, Donaldson, Ferris,
                                                  Garvin, Given, Hall, Hanna, Harden, of Washington;
                                                  Hardin of Perry; Harney, Hetfield, Holcomb, Hon,
                                                  Howard, Howell, Howk, Humphreys, Kemp, of Dubois,
                                                  Kemp, of Vigo, Lake, Lasselle, Lee, Lemmon, of
                                                  Harrison; Lemon, of Spencer; Mason, McGauchey,
                                                  Miller, Milroy, Mustard, Mutz, Niblack,
                                                  O'Brien, of Martin; Osborn, Packard,
                                                  Pendleton, Priest, Puett, Reitz, Richardson,
                                                  Rippey, Roberts, Shaffer, Shoaff of Jay Shoaff, of
                                                  Allen, Spencer, Veach, Waterman, William, Wolfe,
                                                  Woollen & Mr. Speaker--61.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Anderson,
                                                  Baker, Branham, Budd, Byerle, Cass, Chambers,
                                                  Forester, Gregory, Hershey, Higgins, Hostetter,
                                                  James, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick, Kilgore, Lamb,
                                                  Leeds, Marshall, Moorman, Morgan, Newman, Noyes,
                                                  O'Brien, of Hamilton; Perry, Pettibone,
                                                  Robinson, Stone, Tarkington Van Buskirk, and
                                                  Woodruff--32.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the SPEAKER ordered the Clerk to return the communications
                                          to his Excellency the Governor, together with the
                                          resolution adopted rejecting it.
                              
                              
                                    THE $200 EXEMPTION
                                    Mr. DONALDSON offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The sixth section
                                                  of the twelfth article of the Constitution
                                                  provides that no person conscientiously opposed to
                                                  bearing arms shall be compelled to do Indiana
                                                  duty, but such person shall pay an equivalent for
                                                  exemption, the amount to be prescribed by law.
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Military Affairs
                                                  be instructed to inquire by what authority such
                                                  equivalent was fixed at two hundred dollars and
                                                  whether any legislation is necessary upon the
                                                  subject, and to report by bill or otherwise.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    The resolution was adopted.
                              
                              
                                    NEW JUDICIAL CIRCUIT
                                    Mr. BIRD introduced a bill [2] creating the 16th judicial
                                          district, which was read the first time and passed to the
                                          second reading.
                                    On motion by Mr. HARNEY, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That when the House adjourn it be
                                                  till 2 p.m. on Monday.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE
                              
                                    MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 1863.
                              
                              The Senate met at 2 o'clock p.m.
                              Mr. MELLETT presented the memorial of John H. Baker contesting the
                                    seat of Charles L. Murray, Senator from Elk hart and Lagrange,
                                    which was read and referred to the Committee on
                                          Elections with instructions to inquire whether
                                    said contestant held a lucrative office at the time of his
                                    election.
                              
                                    SOLDIER'S VOTE.
                                    On motion by Mr. LANDERS, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Judiciary Committee be
                                                  instructed to inquire into the constitutionality
                                                  of a law providing for the voting of Indiana
                                                  soldiers who may be absent from their respective
                                                  townships and on duty outside of the State at the
                                                  time of the election.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Hon. HORACE CORBIN, Senator elect from St. Joseph and
                                          Marshall, came forward presented his credentials, and was
                                          sworn in my Judge J. W. Chapman.
                              
                              
                                    LEGISLATIVE EXPENSES
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, introduced a bill [S. 1]
                                          appropriating $25,000 to defray the expenses of the
                                          present General Assembly, which was read twice and
                                          referred to a select committee with instructions to so
                                          amend the bill that no member shall receive any pay who
                                          shall absent himself from the Senate.
                                    The PRESIDENT makes this Committee to consist of Messrs.
                                          Moore, Wilson and Browne, of Randolph.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                              
                                    MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 1863.
                              
                              The House met at 2 p.m.
                              Mr RYAN, member elect from Crawford county appeared, presented his
                                    credentials and was sworn in.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS
                                    Mr. MOORMAN introduced a bill [H. R. 3] to appropriate
                                          $30,000 for the expenses of the present Legislature, which
                                          under a suspension of the rules was read twice and
                                          referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                                Means.
                                    Mr. MILLER introduced a bill [4] to amend the 406th section
                                          of the Practice Act, to facilitate the issuance of
                                          executions on judgements after the lapse of five years,
                                          which was read the first time and passed to the second
                                          reading.
                              
                              
                                    RAILROAD TARIFF
                                    On motion by Mr. BROWN, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, By this House (the
                                                  Senate concurring,) that a committee of two on the
                                                  part of the Senate, and three on the part of the
                                                  House, be appointed to examine and report at an
                                                  early day whether certain railroad companies in
                                                  this State are charging higher rates for the
                                                  transportation of passengers and freights than is
                                                  allowed by their charters, and also whether the
                                                  same rate per mile is charged for transporting the
                                                  same without regard to distance.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    The SPEAKER makes this committee to consist of Messrs. Brown,
                                          Holcomb and Newman.
                                    Mr. LAMB offered a resolution which was adopted instructing
                                          the Committee on the Judiciary with
                                          regard to paying the Home Legion for services on the
                                          border.
                                    The bill [H. R. 1] to enforce the 13th Article of the
                                          Constitution was read the second time and referred to the
                                                Judiciary Committee.
                                    The bill [H. R. 2] creating the 16th Judicial District was
                                          read the second time and referred to a select
                                          committee.
                              

                              

                              
                                    EMANCIPATION.
                                    Mr. WATERMAN offered a resolution, instructing Senators and
                                          requesting Representatives in Congress to use all
                                          honorable efforts to defeat the President's
                                          compensated emancipation scheme, which was referred to the
                                                Committee on Federal
                                          Relations.
                                    Mr. PACKARD submitted the following, which was also referred
                                          to the Committee on Federal
                                          Relations:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The President of
                                                  the United States, at the second session of the
                                                  Thirty Seventh Congress, submitted the project of
                                                  a law or pledge for compensation to any State or
                                                  States which may emancipate the slaves existing in
                                                  or being inhabitants of, such States, and whereas,
                                                  such law, so passed, provides for the creation of
                                                  a large and onerous public debt, by the issuing of
                                                  the bonds of the United States, with interest
                                                  running thereon till redeemed, in payment of said
                                                  slaves so manumitted and set free, and
                                                  WHEREAS, The said Congress,
                                                  at its second session, did enact the same into the
                                                  form of a law, with the approval of the President;
                                                  and
                                                  WHEREAS, This was done in
                                                  derogation of all notice to the people of the
                                                  several States; that the same was intended and
                                                  contemplated, and against the solemn pledges of
                                                  the President and Congress, that neither had the
                                                  "lawful right or power" to
                                                  interfere with slavery in any of the States of the
                                                  American Union, therefore,
                                                  Resolved, By the General
                                                  Assembly of the State of Indiana, that the said
                                                  action of the President and Congress of the United
                                                  States had no warrant in the Constitution--that it
                                                  was an assumption of authority not delegated by
                                                  the people, or the States to the Executive or
                                                  Legislative branches of the General Government--in
                                                  bold and wicked defiance of the rights of the
                                                  people, and the pledges made to the nation, and in
                                                  manifestly oppressive to the citizens of the
                                                  several States having no connection or interest in
                                                  the existence of African slavery.
                                                  Resolved, That this General Assembly, in behalf
                                                  of the people represent therein, do most solemnly
                                                  protest against the enactment of that law or
                                                  project by Congress; and that we deem it an act of
                                                  common honesty to declare that the people of
                                                  Indiana, already burthended by excessive taxation
                                                  for the legitimate expenses of the existing war,
                                                  will oppose by all lawful and constitutional
                                                  means, every attempt to subject their property and
                                                  industry to new and unconstitutional exactions,
                                                  and for purposes so irreconcilable with the
                                                  requirements of the National Constitution, and at
                                                  war with the sacred rights of the citizens of the
                                                  various States. 
                                                  Resolved, That our Senators in Congress be
                                                  instructed, and our Representatives requested, to
                                                  vote for the prompt repeal of said law or pledge,
                                                  at the present session.
                                                  Resolved, That His Excellency, the Governor, be
                                                  requested to transmit, without delay, certified
                                                  copies of this joint resolution to each of our
                                                  Senators and Representatives in Congress.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    ANNOUNCEMENT OF COMMITTEES
                                    The SPEAKER announced the following Select Committee
                                                on Arbitrary Arrests--one from each
                                          Congressional District--appeared in pursuance of Mr.
                                          Brown's resolution adopted on Friday: Messrs.
                                          Brown, Given, Howard, Ferris, Morgan, Gregg, Hanna,
                                          Gregory, Lasselle, Baker and Shoaff of Jay.
                                    Also the following Standing Committees:
                                    
                                          Elections--Messrs. Roberts,
                                                Howell, Atkison, Spencer, Abdill, Hall and
                                                Morgan.
                                          Ways and Means--Messrs. Niblack,
                                                Puett, Branham, Harney, Bird, Waterman and
                                                Jones.
                                          Judiciary--Messrs. Howk, Burton,
                                                Anderson, Lake, Lasselle, Packard and
                                                Kilgore.
                                          Organization of Courts--Messrs.
                                                Brown, Shaffer, O'Brien of Hamilton, Mason,
                                                Garvin, Newman, Howell and Lamb.
                                          Banks--Messrs. Puett, Shoaff of
                                                Jay, Harney, Woollen, Branham, Jones and Bird
                                          Federal Relations--Messrs.
                                                Packard, Given, Tarkington, Howell, Niblack,
                                                Anderson and Gregg.
                                          Education--Messrs. Holcomb, Wolfe,
                                                Van Buskirk, Pendleton, Higgins, Given and
                                                Griffith.
                                          The affairs of the State Prison
                                                  North--Messrs. Packard, Milroy, Priest,
                                                Tarkington, Collins, Rippey and Kilgore.
                                          Swamp Lands--Messrs. Shaffer,
                                                Richardson, Atkison, Davis, Forester, Puett and
                                                Waterman.
                                          Military Affairs--Messrs. Hanna,
                                                Milroy, Baker, Roberts, Kemp of Vigo, Lemmon of
                                                Spencer, and Johnson.
                                          Claims--Messrs. Howell, Lemmon of
                                                Harrison, Pendleton, Stone, Wolfe, Veach, Roe and
                                                Hutchings.
                                          Trust Funds--Messrs. Burton, Hon,
                                                Hardin of Washington, Gregory, Cass, Hall, Lamb and
                                                Blocher.
                                          Fees and Salaries--Messrs.
                                                Humphries, DeBruler, Higgins, Waterman, McGauchey,
                                                Hershey and Perry.
                                          Sinking Fund--Messrs. Lemmon of
                                                Harrison, Osborn, Chambers, Bregan, Pettibone,
                                                Forester and O'Brien of Martin.
                                          Rights and Privileges--Messrs
                                                Ferris, Lake, Kilgore, Moorman, Spence, Gregory and
                                                Miller.
                                          Railroads--Messrs Branham, Bird,
                                                Mutz, Abbett, Morgan, Newman, and Donaldsen.
                                          Commerce and Manufactures--Messrs.
                                                Rippey, Reitz, Kemp of Dubois,Hardin of Washington,
                                                Hostetter, Woodruff and Marshall.
                                          County and Township
                                                Business--Messrs. Miller, Priest, Stone, Shoaff
                                                of Allen, Pettibone, Perry and Cook.
                                          Agriculture--Messrs. Milroy
                                                Harney, Van Buskirk, Collins, Hall, Blocher and
                                                Budd.
                                          Roads--Messrs. Shoaff of Jay,
                                                Cook, Davis, Hardin of Perry, O'Brien of
                                                Martin, Hutchings and Hershey.
                                          Scientific and Benevolent
                                                  Institutions--Messrs. Woollen, Mason, Cass,
                                                Ryan, Richardson, Griffith, and Lemmon of
                                                Spencer.
                                          Temperance--Messrs. Abbett, Hon,
                                                Van Buskirk, Williams, Noyes, Griffith and
                                                Priest.
                                          Mileage and Accounts--Messrs.
                                                Mutz, Hardin of Washington, Kendrick, Leeds, Hardin
                                                of Perry, James and Veach.
                                          Corporations--Messrs. Garvin,
                                                Hanna, Mustard, Higgins, Tarkington, Howk and
                                                Woollen.
                                          Public Expenditures--Messrs.
                                                Donaldson, McGauchey, Abdill, Marshall, Lee,
                                                Hetfield and James.
                                          Engrossed Bills--Messrs. Lasselle,
                                                Osborn, Cason, Byerle, Baker, Howard and
                                                Given.
                                          Canals--Messrs. Hetfield, Shoaff
                                                of Allen, DeBruler, Humphries, Reitz, Budd and
                                                Mustard.
                                          Public Printing--Messrs Mutz,
                                                Ryan, Cason, Robinson, Kemp of Dubois, Brown and
                                                Chambers.
                                          The Affairs of the City of
                                                  Indianapolis--Messrs. Kendrick, Lee,
                                                Williams, Hostetter, Robinson, Hardin of Perry and
                                                Cook.
                                    
                              
                              
                                    JOINT STANDING COMMITTEES
                                    
                                          Enrolled Bills--Messrs Wolfe,
                                                Pendleton, Ferris, Leeds, Noyes, Lake and
                                                Kendrick.
                                          Public Buildings--Messrs. Collins,
                                                Hardin of Washington and Hershey. 
                                          The State Library--Messrs.
                                                Pendleton, Anderson and Richardson.
                                          The Canal Fund--Messrs. Spencer,
                                                Mustard and Donaldson.
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS
                                    The following bills were introduced, real the first, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading.
                                    By Mr. GARVIN [5] Granting to Circuit Courts concurrent
                                          jurisdiction  with
                                          Common Pleas Courts in all cases not exclusively within,
                                          the jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace.
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN, [6] To regulate the number of jurors required
                                          to agree on verdicts--two-thirds to be sufficient.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, January 15, 1863.
                              
                              The PRESIDENT announced, the Standing Committees of the Senate,
                                    to-wit:
                              
                                    Judiciary--Messrs. Ray, Downey, Wolfe,
                                          Cobb, McClurg, Brown of Wells, March, Browne of Randolph,
                                          Claypool and Graves.
                                    Finance--Messrs. Williams, Landers,
                                          Bradley, Hoagland, Wilson, Claypool, Davis of Parke,
                                          Mellett and Beeson.
                                    Organisation of Courts--Messrs. Wolfe,
                                          Cobb, Corbin, Downey, White, Dickinson and Mellett.
                                    Elections--Messrs. Shields, Wolfe, Brown
                                          of Wells, Landers, White, Blair and Beeson.
                                    Federal Relations--Messrs. Cobb, Wolfe,
                                          Johnston, Hoagland, Ray, Davis of Cass, March, Mansfield,
                                          Browne of Randolph, Mellett and White.
                                    Education--Messrs. Douglass, Ferguson,
                                          Hord. Corbin, Gifford, White, Berry and New.
                                    Corporations--Messrs. Davis of Cass,
                                          Fuller, Moore, Hartley, Culver, Reed and White.
                                    Military Affairs--Messrs. Landers,
                                          Shields, Ray, Corbin, Downey, Mansfield, Davis of Parke,
                                          Beeson and Murray.
                                    Roads--Messrs. Finch, Jenkins, Moore,
                                          Shoulders, Campbell, Pleak and Wright.
                                    Canals and Internal
                                          Improvements--Messrs. Hoagland, Finch, Davis of Cass,
                                          McClurg, Culver, Campbell and Reed.
                                     The Affairs of the Town of
                                          Indianapolis--Messrs. Jenkins, Gaff, Hartley, Berry,
                                          Pleak and New.
                                    Claims--Messrs. Moore, Williams, Wilson,
                                          Shoulders, Blair, Grubb and Pleak.
                                    State Prisons--Messrs. Ferguson,
                                          Bradley, Gifford, Shoulders, Cobb, Wilson, Wolfe,
                                          Hoagland, Graves, Bearss, Murray, Browne of Randolph,
                                          Culver, Teegarden and Wright.
                                    Expenditures--Messrs. Marshall, Shields,
                                          Fuller, Douglass, Grubb, Bearss and Campbell.
                                    Banks--Messrs. Wilson, Gaff, Landers,
                                          Johnston, Bradley, Beeson, Graves, Claypool and
                                          Teegarden.
                                    Manufactures--Messrs. Fuller, Marshall,
                                          Williams, Gaff, Beeson, Grubb and New.
                                    Agriculture--Messrs. Shoulders,
                                          Johnston, Moore, Williams, Marshall, Campbell, Murray,
                                          Berry and Reed.
                                    Unfinished Business--Messrs. Graves,
                                          Hartley, Finch, Brown of Wells, Bearss, Teegarden and
                                          Wright.
                                    Benevolent Institutions--Messrs. Corbin,
                                          Clifford, Douglass, Downey, Ferguson, New, Teegarden,
                                          Mellett and Mansfield.
                                    Swamp Lands--Messrs. McClurg, Hord,
                                          Marshall, Shields, Culver, Dickinson and Reed.
                                    Temperance-- Messrs. Gaff, Jenkins,
                                          Finch, Cobb, Berry, New and Murray.
                                    County and Township Business--Messrs.
                                          Johnston, Moore, Wilson, Graves, March, Davis of Parke and
                                          Blair.
                                    Phraseology and Arrangement of
                                          Bills--Messrs. Gifford, Ray, Douglass, Dickinson and
                                          Bearss.
                                    Printing--Messrs. Bradley, Wolfe,
                                          Williams, Davis of Cass, Murray, New and Mansfield.
                                    Enrolled Bills--Messrs. Brown of Wells,
                                          McClurg, Hord, Grubb, Blair and Browne of Randolph.
                                    Rights and Privileges--Messrs Downey,
                                          Ray, Hord, McClurg, Corbin, March, Claypool, Davis of
                                          Parke and Dickinson.
                              
                              
                                    JOINT COMMITTEES.
                                    
                                          Public Buildings--Messrs. Hartley,
                                                Jenkins, Landers, Pleak and New.
                                          State Library--Messrs, Hord,
                                                Fuller, Ferguson, Mansfield and Blair.
                                    
                                    Mr. MOORE reported back the bill [S. 1.] making
                                          appropriations to defray legislative expenses with an
                                          amendment "That no Senator or Representative
                                          shall be entitled to receive his per diem, for such time
                                          as he may be absent, without leave from the Senate or
                                          House of Representatives."
                                    The amendment was concurred in and the bill was read the
                                          third time and passed--yeas 32, nays 13.
                              
                              
                                    COMMON PLEAS COURTS.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, offered a resolution instructing the
                                                Judiciary Committee to report a
                                          bill abolishing Common Pleas Courts, increasing districts
                                          of Circuit Courts to twenty, and extending the
                                          jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace.
                                    On motion by Mr. SHIELDS the consideration of the resolution
                                          was postponed until Friday next at 2 p.m.
                              
                              
                                    IMMIGRATION OF NEGROES.
                                    On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved,That the
                                                  Committee on Rights and Privileges of the
                                                  Inhabitants of the State be instructed
                                                  to inquire into the expediency of amending the law
                                                  on the subject of the immigration of free negroes,
                                                  as to entirely prohibit the immigration of such
                                                  persons into this State, and the removing of all
                                                  such persons as are within this State in violation
                                                  of the Constitution and laws of the State.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. DICKINSON, [2] to authorize the board of Commissioners
                                          of the several counties of the State of Indiana, and the
                                          authorities of any incorporate city or town in said State,
                                          to make appropriation for the protection and maintenance
                                          of the families of volunteers, and for the encouragement
                                          of volunteers, and to provide for wounded and disabled
                                          Soldiers, and for the disinterring, transportation and
                                          interring of the bodies of any deceased soldier: and for
                                          the erecting of monuments their memories, and to make
                                          appropriations for the purchase of arms and equipments for
                                          the raising and maintaining military companies for home
                                          defense, or for State or United States service, and for
                                          such other necessary expenditures for the defense of their
                                          respective counties, cities and towns, as the exigencies
                                          of the times may require, and to empower the County Boards
                                          and authorities of incorporated towns and cities, to make
                                          regulations for disbursements of same, to legalize any
                                          appropriations heretofore made, and to authorize a special
                                          tax for the same.
                                    By Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, [3] amending the 103d section of
                                          the practice act, approved June 17, 1852.
                                    By Mr. BLAIR, [4] to amend the 1st and 3d sections of an act,
                                          regulating docket fees of District Attorneys, approved
                                          June 4, 1861.

                                    

                                    By Mr. DICKINSON, [5] amending section six of an act approved
                                          May 20, 1862, touching the laying out and vacating towns,
                                          streets and alleys.
                              
                              
                                    GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved to take up the message of the
                                          Governor.
                                    The PRESIDENT said that no communication from the Governor
                                          was properly before the Senate. A communication had been
                                          pent in by the private Secretary of the Governor, but
                                          there was no quorum present in the Senate at the time; we
                                          could transact no business except such as would bring in
                                          absent members, and it could not, for that reason, be
                                          considered as before the Senate.
                              
                              
                                    PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                    A message was received from the House informing the Senate of
                                          the passage of a concurrent resolution instructing our
                                          Senators and requesting our Representatives in Congress to
                                          vote for a law to reduce Hie pay of commissioned officers
                                          in the army at least twenty-five per cent, and to increase
                                          the pay of privates at least $4 per month.
                                    On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON it was amended by increasing the
                                          pay of noncommissioned officers also $4 per month.
                                    The resolution, as amended was referred to the
                                                Committee on Military
                                          Affairs.
                              
                              
                                    PARTIZAN DECLARATION.
                                    Mr. WOLFE, from the select committee to whom was referred the
                                          resolutions of Mr. Browne of Randolph, reported them back
                                          with a recommendation that the first be referred to the
                                                Committee on Federal Relations,
                                          the second to the Committee on Military
                                                Affairs, the third to the
                                                Committee on Finance, the fourth
                                          to the Committee on Rights and
                                                Privileges, the fifth, to a special
                                          committee, and that the sixth be adopted.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD presented the report of the minority,
                                          recommending the adoption of the resolutions with an
                                          amendment "that nothing herein contained shall be
                                          construed to imply an endorsement or censure of the course
                                          pursued by the President of the United States or the
                                          Governor of Indiana."
                                    On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, the amendment was laid on the
                                          table, by yeas 26, nays 22.
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to concur in the majority report with an
                                          amendment adding to the last resolution the following:
                                    After this General Assembly shall have briefly declared the
                                          principles by which such officers, especially United
                                          States Senators, should be governed in the discharge of
                                          their official duties in aiding the General Government in
                                          its efforts to put down the existing rebellion, preserve
                                          the Constitution intact and restore the Union of all the
                                          States.
                                    On motion by Mr. COBB the amendment was laid on the
                                          table--yeas 26, nays 22.
                                    Mr. BEESON moved to amend by adding to the last resolution
                                          the following:
                                    But no person will be supported for any office to be filled
                                          by this General Assembly, who shall not first have
                                          publicly declared his opinion in relation to the aid which
                                          ought to be rendered to the General Government in its
                                          efforts to put down the existing rebellion, preserve the
                                          Constitution and restore the Union of all the States.
                                    The PRESIDENT decided the amendment out of order, a similar
                                          one having been just laid on the table.
                                    The majority report was then concurred in--yeas 26, nays
                                          22.
                              
                              
                                    RAILROAD TARIFF.
                                    A House resolution to appoint a joint committee to enquire it
                                          any and what railroads were charging higher rates for
                                          transportation and fare than by law they are allowed to
                                          do, was taken up and concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    THE SENATORIAL IMBROGLIO.
                                    The message from the House informing the Senate that the
                                          House would meet the Senate in joint convention at 2
                                          o'clock p. m. to go into an election for United
                                          States Senators, was taken up.
                                    Mr. MELLETT moved to postpone the resolution until 10
                                          o'clock to-morrow.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Shields in the Chair.) I hope the Senate
                                          will vote down the proposition to postpone. If there is a
                                          conservative man in this Senate Chamber I believe I stand
                                          side by side with him for the Constitution of the Country.
                                          I would scorn to speak to a man who was opposed to the
                                          Constitution of his country and the unity and integrity of
                                          the best government ever given to man. What in the
                                          necessity of equivocating in this matter? There can be
                                          none. A caucus is called of the Republican members of the
                                          Senate and House of Representatives for to-night, and the
                                          Senator from Henry [Mr. Mellett] will not undertake to
                                          tell this Senate, nor will any Republican Senator, that
                                          they are not acquainted with the opinions and characters
                                          of the prominent republican men who are likely to become
                                          candidates for these high and important stations. Let us
                                          determine now the time we will go into this election. The
                                          people of the State demand there shall be an election and
                                          that at an early day. If the Republican Senators will
                                          agree now upon a time that the election of United States
                                          Senators shall be gone into, I have no objection if it is
                                          postponed till even a longer period than to-morrow: but it
                                          in high time the majority in this senate shall know at
                                          what time their Republican fellow Senators intend to go
                                          into this election. Indiana is at this time without a
                                          representative of the mind of the majority, in the Senate
                                          of the United States, and an appeal has come from the
                                          loyal and conservative men of the State that we shall have
                                          Democratic principles rep-  resented in the United
                                          States Senate by a staunch and reliable Democrat who will
                                          represent their interests at the proper time in the
                                          councils of the nation. And I can assure Senators on the
                                          other side they need have no fears that the Democratic
                                          party are going to elect a disloyal man. I do, in
                                          conclusion, earnestly appeal to Republican Senators that
                                          they will return to their seats upon this floor and meet
                                          this question manfully; let us as men who love the
                                          Constitution and Government of the country, if we cannot
                                          at all times and on all occasions have things go as we
                                          de-sire, show our patriotism by submitting to what shall
                                          be the voice of the people at the time, and trust to the
                                          ballot-box to remedy the evil.
                                    Mr. MELLETT. Mr. Presidents I disclaim party. I was elected
                                          as a partisan but I am not now a partizan. I took grounds
                                          against party in the last election and voted for neither
                                          of our candidates for congressmen because they were
                                          partisans, and looked more to the advancement of party
                                          than to the good of the country. I have no use for such
                                          men in times like these. We have submitted propositions
                                          here to see if we can compromise. I am ready to
                                          compromise. I am for the Constitution as it is and the
                                          Union as it was. Now I ask you to be more magnanimous than
                                          I was two years ago. Two years ago gentlemen told us we
                                          must lay down a platform pledging our southern brethren
                                          that the Lincoln administration would not do thus and so.
                                          They said these southern gentlemen were alarmed. I said
                                          they had no right to suspicion us. Now certain Senators of
                                          the minority ask some pledges from the present majority.
                                          If the Democrats were right then, they are wrong now. At
                                          the extra session the parties were united in prosecution
                                          of the war. Are the skies any brighter now than they were
                                          then? The country is in no better condition now than it
                                          was then. In my judgement it is not improved on particle.
                                          Senators say they have been deceived in Abraham Lincoln.
                                          That is very true; they may say it justly. And if they
                                          have, have they not been deceived in Joseph A. Wright and
                                          James Hughes and fifty others I might name? Have not the
                                          opinions of Senators on this floor undergone a change? Are
                                          they prepared to say Hendricks and Turpie will not
                                          change.
                                    Mr. COBB (interrupting.) As far as I am concerned, my opinion
                                          of Wright and Hughes has changed, and for that reason I am
                                          anxious to see Wright removed from the Senate of the
                                          United States. I can see no change as far as Hendricks and
                                          Turpie are concerned, they are embodyment of the
                                          Democratic sentiment of the people of Indiana and for that
                                          reason we desire to elect them. The Democratic sentiment
                                          is in a large majority in the State, and it should be
                                          represented in the Senate of the United States. That is
                                          why the elections should be had at once. As to the views
                                          of Mr. Hendricks and Mr. Turpie, they are known. The
                                          banner of the party was thrown to the breeze with their
                                          platform inscribed upon it, and it triumphed. The
                                          gentlemen selected to represent us in the United States
                                          Senate endorsed that platform.
                                    Mr. MELLETT. The gentlemen says their platform was put forth,
                                          but I apprehend there is more than one Democratic Senator
                                          who did not approve of their 8th of January platform. But
                                          to come back to the main point. This Democratic party
                                          ought to adopt a gentlemanly course. If gentlemen would
                                          fix their minds upon the great issues at stake and lay
                                          aside the party a little while, I think it would be a
                                          great advantage to the country. The Republicans are as
                                          guilty in this respect as Democrats are. Perhaps their
                                          party prejudices are not so strong from the fact that they
                                          are not so old as the Democratic party, but for their age
                                          they have perhaps stronger prejudices. But I say in times
                                          like these we ought to come together. When I move to
                                          postpone the consideration of this resolution till
                                          to-morrow I do it in good faith. I cannot tell you just
                                          precisely what the minority will do at that time; but I
                                          say this, as far as I am concerned, on to-morrow the
                                          Senator from Monroe [Mr. Dunning] will know what I will
                                          do.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (interrupting.) I hope the Senator does not
                                          understand me as impugning his motives.
                                    Mr. MELLETT. No sir, not at all. But you must remember,
                                          gentlemen, that the minority are human as well as you on
                                          the other side. You have voted down every proposition we
                                          have offered. We offered all sorts of propositions with a
                                          view of getting something, but we have got nothing. I can
                                          stand all that, too, but it might induce some Senators to
                                          act ugly on our side and I do not want to see that done.
                                          God knows I will have nothing to do with making a party
                                          record for the next two years. 
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS. The Senator from Henry [Mr. Mellett] proposes
                                          to postpone this resolution till to-morrow morning at ten
                                          o'clock. I can see no good to result from it. We
                                          have delayed this thing to the sixth day, and now are
                                          asked to postpone it. Is there not ample time given? How
                                          was it when there was an election two years ago? were we
                                          allowed this time? No sir. Gov. Lane was installed Monday
                                          and before the Senate adjourned on Wednesday he was
                                          elected U.S. Senator. We were not prepared, but we offered
                                          no opposition. I hope the motion will be voted down and
                                          that the Senate will go into the election. 
                                    The Senate then adjourned till 2 o'clock.
                              

                              

                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON moved to concur in the House resolution with an
                                          amendment fixing the time of election for to-morrow at 3
                                          o'clock p.m.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL. At a time like this it becomes us to lay aside
                                          the partizan and act the part of true friends of our
                                          country, I am not here for the purpose of thwarting the
                                          will of the majority in the election of United States
                                          Senators.-- I grant it is the just privilege of Senators
                                          upon this floor to prefer the election of Thomas A.
                                          Hendricks to any other gentleman and as far as I am
                                          concerned I do not wish to place a straw in the way of the
                                          consummation of that object. I know that gentleman and
                                          admire his abilities and moral virtues, but there are
                                          those of us who are not acquainted with the position of
                                          that gentleman or his associate, who it is expected will
                                          be sent to the United States Senate, upon the vital
                                          questions of the day. It has been rumored upon the street
                                          and in the public press that these gentlemen entertain
                                          ideas that in my opinion will bring upon the State of
                                          Indiana anarchy and confusion. I trust in God I may be
                                          deceived in this, for I hope I have as much interest in
                                          the welfare of the State and country as any Senator upon
                                          this floor. I refer to the idea of suspending hostilities,
                                          and the further idea, following out the suspension of
                                          hostilities, of taking this State out of the Union under
                                          the guise of attaching it to the Southern Confederacy. But
                                          my personal associations here ameliorated my ideas and
                                          brought about a better feeling as far as I am concerned. I
                                          trust this thing will be delayed until we have a chance to
                                          confer and be one in the maintenance of the Union. This is
                                          the grand and controlling object of my action on this
                                          floor--the maintenance of this Union unbroken--the Union
                                          as it was before the rebellion commenced, without a single
                                          star erased. I say to Senators that I will go as far as
                                          the farthest in yielding up my own personal ideas for the
                                          maintenance of this Union.-- Feeling and knowing the
                                          responsibility of my position, although I hate slavery as
                                          I hate the very devil himself, I would rather see the
                                          institution of slavery covering every foot of territory
                                          upon God's green earth than to see this
                                          government of ours broken up. On the other hand, I would
                                          rather see the shackles of every slave broken than to see
                                          this government broken up. The question of slavery or no
                                          slavery is a question of minor importance to me. I feel
                                          that we are on a slumbering volcano and a hasty action, a
                                          want of mature judgment, a single movement of an
                                          inflammatory character, may send us out in rebellion. It
                                          matters not whether A, B, or C is in the Senate of the
                                          United States; I would as soon see Thomas A. Hendricks
                                          there as any other Democrat in the State of Indiana acting
                                          with you now; but it is a matter of importance that there
                                          should be good feeling existing amongst us--that the
                                          people should be one in the maintenance of this Union. I
                                          trust, although I have been thus candid in expressing my
                                          apprehensions, that they may be groundless, but it is
                                          apparent to Senators that these apprehensions exist,
                                          whether ill or well founded I cannot pay. I trust it will
                                          be delayed until next Tuesday, or if that be too long,
                                          give us a shorter time to become acquainted with each
                                          other.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. I hope the amendment offered by the Senator from
                                          Putnam [Mr. Johnston] will be adopted. We have been here
                                          several days and have done nothing, and it is evident we
                                          will do nothing until something is done with this matter.
                                          The responsibility of legislation is upon the Democratic
                                          party and I am satisfied the opposition are aiming to make
                                          this legislation as odious as possible. I am astonished
                                          that so much fear of the Democratic party is expressed by
                                          gentlemen. They can find nothing to justify it, and this
                                          being the fact I am left to the conclusion that these
                                          gentlemen have been trying to make party capital. The main
                                          object of this party is to make out that the Democratic
                                          party is disloyal. I am inclined to defend the action of
                                          my party two years ago. I was one of the men that
                                          bolted.-- Why did we bolt? Not to defeat the election of
                                          United States Senator; that was not the question. But they
                                          got up a bill for the purpose of disfranchising the people
                                          of the State-- giving double, and in some instances treble
                                          to republican districts and only half, in many, to
                                          Democratic districts. Then it was that the Democratic
                                          party withdrew in order to preserve the rights of the
                                          people-- the right of a fair and equal representation. It
                                          was not to defeat the will of the people, as is the object
                                          of these men now, but for the purpose of sustaining the
                                          rights of the people. These gentlemen profess to be afraid
                                          of rebellion. Now in order to avoid rebellion how should
                                          they act? Certainly that party is responsible for
                                          rebellion that will throw itself in the way of the will of
                                          the people and deny the people the right of having their
                                          will carried out through their representatives. Certainly
                                          the way to keep down rebellion is to let the government
                                          move on in the manner it always has done. The people are
                                          the government and that party that throws itself in the
                                          way of their desire will be held responsible for it. I
                                          hope we will proceed straight along with our business.
                                          There is no need of putting off this election. We have
                                          spent about one sixth of our time and done nothing. It is
                                          not our idea to have the wheels of government clogged  this way. I am
                                          getting impatient about this matter. If these men are
                                          going to revolutionize and break a quorum they have their
                                          minds made up now. I will carry out the will of the people
                                          that sent me here as far as I am able, I care not what the
                                          consequences will be. If these gentlemen are going to
                                          break a quorum they might just as well act it out now.--We
                                          may just as well talk plain about this matter.
                                     Mr. BLAIR. Mr. President: I had hoped before this election
                                          for United States Senators was brought upon us, that we
                                          might get some expression from the majority on this floor
                                          that would dispel the apprehensions alluded to by the
                                          Senator from Fayette [Mr. Claypool.] I hope with him that
                                          these apprehensions are unfounded; but there are
                                          indications in the papers of their existence. Now it was
                                          but a day or two ago that my eye happened to fall upon an
                                          article in the Sentinel addressed to one
                                          Jesse D. Bright. That man was expelled from the United
                                          States Senate for treason and this communication solicits
                                          rather, that the peoples' representatives should
                                          send him back. He responds by saying that he has always
                                          been opposed to the coercive policy of this
                                          administration, and that he is now and ever has been
                                          opposed to all legislation in aid of the prosecution of
                                          this war for the suppression of the rebellion. And yet
                                          gentlemen tell us here, and I believe it, that the
                                          majority upon this floor, as a mere matter of policy
                                          dictated by their partizan tactics, purpose not to elect
                                          this man. Not because they do not endorse him. And have we
                                          not a right to have apprehensions that these men may not
                                          follow in the same footsteps of this gentleman who was
                                          expelled from the United States Senate?
                                    Mr. COBB (interrupting) Does the gentleman mean to charge
                                          insincerity upon the majority here? If he does I would
                                          answer him that he has no right to demand of them that
                                          they define their position.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. I do not mean to say these gentlemen intend any
                                          such thing, but I say that from what has been expressed in
                                          this Senate, these gentlemen do not propose to repudiate
                                          Mr. Bright on account of any principles he holds.
                                    Mr. COBB (interrupting.) I will ask the Senator if he was not
                                          anxious that the Democratic party should nominate Mr.
                                          Bright?
                                    Mr. BLAIR. I was not, and would not be willing to remain here
                                          and see these gentlemen elect him. But out of respect to
                                          the soldiers Indiana has sent into the field to aid in the
                                          prosecution of this war, and out of respect to the people
                                          who have apprehensions, I say it is nothing but just and
                                          fair that the election should be postponed until such a
                                          time as to afford us an expression of opinion upon these
                                          great I questions. I did not come here expecting the
                                          minority would resort to a bolt to delay the action of the
                                          Senate, but I ask these gentlemen to delay this question a
                                          week or a few days, until we have time to see whether
                                          there are further indications.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. Mr. President: This is not a question that ought
                                          to be lengthily discussed and I do not rise to make a
                                          speech. I think that discussion will amount to no good;
                                          but I do protest against the charges that are made by
                                          implication on the part of the minority to beg this
                                          question. I take it that these gentlemen have no right,
                                          and it is absolutely wrong; for them to charge either
                                          directly or by implication, the intentions of what this
                                          body may be in regard to sustaining our country. I take it
                                          that the majority on this floor and throughout the State
                                          of Indiana have never done any act that should call upon
                                          them even these insinuations in regard to their loyalty.
                                          If I was disposed to bandy epithets or hurl back charges I
                                          could do so in the same language and with as much
                                          propriety, but there is no argument in that. I think
                                          gentlemen must see the impropriety of pursuing a course of
                                          that kind.
                                    Mr. McCLURG. I stand upon this floor as one willing to go to
                                          the furthest mark to bring about unity of action on art
                                          occasion of this kind, but I think the demand made at this
                                          time, under the present circumstances, is unreasonable. I
                                          am decidedly in favor of the amendment proposed by the
                                          Senator on my left [Mr. Johnston] for I would not force
                                          nor urge the proposition as it came from the other end of
                                          the capitol, from the fact that I concede to the
                                          opposition the necessary rules that govern their party. I
                                          would not wish to force them into an election before they
                                          had sufficiently consulted one with another and presented
                                          their candidate, and to-night will afford them ample time
                                          and opportunity to act with the unanimity they may
                                          require, I am in favor of the majority ruling, and I
                                          recognize that principle in time of peace as well as in
                                          time of war. I regard it as being the heart and life blood
                                          of our institutions, and we must not only recognize it
                                          to-day and to-morrow but in all time to come. Whenever we
                                          disregard that great, principle which underlies the
                                          foundation of our government, that the majority shall
                                          rule, we bring upon ourselves anarchy and rebellion. It
                                          seems to me the apprehensions of gentlemen on the other
                                          side are unfounded. As far as I am concerned they may
                                          dismiss for all time to come the apprehension that the
                                          State of Indiana will ever go out of this Union by the
                                          action of the Democratic party. We are for the Union of
                                          all the States, and two years ago  we plead with the majority
                                          here to avert the danger that stares us in the face
                                          to-day:--we would much less consent that Indiana should be
                                          blotted out from it.-- Gentlemen need not entertain the
                                          thought that any candidate we will present for United
                                          States Senator will tolerate for a moment such an
                                          idea.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL. If Thomas A. Hendricks was to favor the idea of
                                          Indiana joining the Southern Confederacy, would you go for
                                          him?
                                    Mr. McCLURG. It is so preposterous a position I could not
                                          entertain it for a single moment.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. If an amendment was before the Senate to postpone
                                          the election until next Tuesday I should vote for it, and
                                          if the next question turns upon the amendment offered,
                                          bringing on this election to-morrow at 3 o'clock,
                                          I should vote for that. We have had sufficient parley upon
                                          this question. We have had a committee of conference
                                          appointed by the President to take into consideration the
                                          difference between the two parties and they have conferred
                                          together and introduced propositions before the Senate and
                                          these propositions have been fairly and squarely met by
                                          both parties: and as a Senator willing to see the
                                          legitimate business of the State proceed, I am for getting
                                          rid of this question as soon as possible.
                                    The amendment was agreed to by yeas 40, nays 6.
                                    The resolution as amended was then adopted.
                              
                              
                                    TO WAIT ON THE GOVERNOR.
                                    The House resolution appointing a Joint Committee to wait on
                                          the Governor and ask when he will be ready to deliver his
                                          message was taken, up and concurred in, and Messrs. Brown,
                                          of Wells, and Browne, of Randolph, appointed the committee
                                          on the part of the Senate.
                              
                              
                                    THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                    Mr. COBB offered the following preamble and resolutions which
                                          were referred to the committee on Federal
                                                Relations:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, Disagreements may
                                                  arise in the present imperiled and calamitous
                                                  condition of our country as to the best means of
                                                  restoring to it the former peace, prosperity and
                                                  happiness which it so long enjoyed; and whereas,
                                                  this Senate, and every member thereof,
                                                  "banishing all passion and
                                                  resentment," and appealing to the higher
                                                  and loftier sentiments of love of country, do
                                                  desire, in the presence of imminent danger to our
                                                  sacred Constitution, to do no act not consistent
                                                  with the obligations which they owe to the people
                                                  of Indiana and to the people of the several States
                                                  comprising the American Union; and whereas, it is
                                                  essential to the rightful progress of legislation
                                                  that a united effort should be made to give force
                                                  and vigor to those great elemental principles of
                                                  popular freedom so intimately interwoven with our
                                                  National and State Constitutions, and so dear to
                                                  our people everywhere; and whereas, it is the
                                                  anxious desire of all loyal citizens that their
                                                  representatives and servants shall so conduct the
                                                  public affairs that peace shall be speedily
                                                  restored, rebellion against the laws suppressed,
                                                  the Union re-established as it was, the National
                                                  tax gatherer withdrawn from the States, the
                                                  liberty of speech and of the press recognized as
                                                  the sacred inheritance of freemen, the several
                                                  Commonwealths again bound together in a union of
                                                  brotherhood never again to be shaken by the
                                                  devices of Secessionists or Abolitionists, and our
                                                  gallant soldiers again allowed to return to their
                                                  kindred and friends; and whereas, this great good
                                                  can only be accomplished by the aid of the several
                                                  State authorities acting in concert with, a
                                                  patriotic National Executive and a Congress
                                                  devoted to the Constitution; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That this Senate,
                                                  acting for and in behalf of the people of Indiana,
                                                  regard the maintenance of the Union of the States
                                                  us of the first importance, and that its members
                                                  pledge to each other devotion to that sacred task,
                                                  believing that while that Union exists we have the
                                                  promise of present and future blessings for our
                                                  beloved land; and we further declare that we are
                                                  prepared to aid every departmental our State
                                                  Government in upholding that Union, to. the extent
                                                  of our constitutional powers.
                                                  Resolved, That we are opposed
                                                  to all acts of the National Executive which tends
                                                  to subvert the liberties of the people or to
                                                  interfere with the rightful powers of the states;
                                                  and declare in the language of General Washington,
                                                  that "it is important that the habits of
                                                  thinking in a free country should inspire caution,
                                                  in those intrusted with its administration, to
                                                  confine themselves within their proper
                                                  constitutional spheres; avoiding in the exercise,
                                                  of the powers of one department, to encroach upon
                                                  another. The spirit of encroachment tends to
                                                  consolidate the powers of all the departments in
                                                  one, and thus create, whatever may be the form of
                                                  government, a real despotism. ****
                                                  To preserve [free institutions] must be as
                                                  necessary as to institute them. But let there be
                                                  no change by usurpation: " We adopt this
                                                  language of the father of his country, and ask and
                                                  acknowledge no higher badge of loyalty to our
                                                  beloved country.
                                                  Resolved, That this Senate
                                                  acknowledges its obligations to aid in defending,
                                                  supporting and obeying the Constitution of this
                                                  State and of the United States, and of upholding
                                                  the Union made under and by virtue of that
                                                  Constitution--that, for this purpose, it is
                                                  prepared to unite with the Executive and other
                                                  branches of the State Government in every proper
                                                  measure for these desirable ends; but it is the
                                                  solemn purpose of this Senate to abdicate none of
                                                  its powers of legislation, nor to abandon any of
                                                  its unquestioned rights for giving a full and fair
                                                  expression of that popular will by which it was
                                                  invested. It will hear all suggestions for the
                                                  peaceable compromise of disagreements, but ultimatums, coming from what source
                                                  they may, must be rejected. In the choice of
                                                  agencies, for accomplishing the safety of the
                                                  people and the Union, this Senate must have a
                                                  voice.
                                                  Resolved, That this Senate
                                                  has witnessed with regret, for many months past, a
                                                  disposition on the part of the Administration and
                                                  Congress, to abandon the policy to which it was
                                                  pledged, at the beginning of this unhappy and
                                                  deplorable civil war--that both the President and
                                                  Congress have departed from their promises to the
                                                  nation, and given sad and unmistakable proof that
                                                  the country has been wronged in the objects for
                                                  which this war has been conducted. The President
                                                  declared in his inaugural message (and repeated
                                                  the same in his annual message in substance) as
                                                  follows: "I have no purpose, directly or
                                                  indirectly, to interfere with the institution of
                                                  slavery in States where it exists. I believe I
                                                  have no lawful right to do so, and I have no
                                                  inclination to do so." And the
                                                  Thirty-Sixth Congress, by a unanimous vote,
                                                  declared, "That neither the Congress of
                                                  the United States, nor the people or Governments
                                                  of the non slave-holding States, have the
                                                  constitutional right to legislate upon, or
                                                  interfere with the institution in any of the
                                                  slaveholding States of the Union." These
                                                  sentiments of the President and Congress meet our
                                                  hearty approval, and all acts in derogation
                                                  thereof have our mature and decided
                                                  condemnation.
                                                  Resolved, That the pledge of
                                                  the present Congress, on the 22d day of July,
                                                  1861, in the face of  the dangers which
                                                  threatened the Capital, "that this war
                                                  was not waged, on our part, in any spirit of
                                                  Oppression, nor for any purpose of conquest or
                                                  subjugation, nor for the purpose of overthrowing
                                                  or interfering with the rights or established
                                                  institutions of these States, but to defend and
                                                  maintain the supremacy of the Constitution and to
                                                  preserve the Union, with all the dignity, equality
                                                  and rights of the several States,
                                                  unimpaired" brought six hundred thousand
                                                  men into the field in defense of our sacred
                                                  institutions; and that it was in our opinion,
                                                  "most unjust and ungenerous to give any
                                                  new character or direction to the war,"
                                                  especially for the accomplishment of any mere
                                                  party or sectional scheme, and that so far as this
                                                  has been done, it meets the unqualified
                                                  disapproval of this Senate, as it has of the State
                                                  of Indiana.
                                                  Resolved, "That, (in
                                                  the language of John J. Crittenden and the
                                                  conservative members of the present Congress) the
                                                  Constitution confers powers adequate to all the
                                                  purposes of peace or war--that it is the same in
                                                  war or in peace, on the battle field and in the
                                                  halls of Congress, and ought to be sacredly
                                                  observed everywhere--and the presumptuous idea
                                                  that has been advanced by some of the Abolition
                                                  leaders in Congress, that the existence of war
                                                  invests Congress with despotic power, is a
                                                  pretension as groundless as it is odious, and is
                                                  to be utterly condemned by every man who has any
                                                  regard for his own liberty, or for the
                                                  Constitution of his country."
                                                  Resolved, That the frequent
                                                  arrest and incarceration in prisons of persons
                                                  resident in this and other States, without warrant
                                                  or authority of law, and without trial or
                                                  opportunity to confront their accusers, is a grave
                                                  offense against the Constitutions of this and
                                                  neighboring States, and one which calls for a
                                                  speedy and effective remedy. Whether these wrongs
                                                  have been perpetrated by National or State
                                                  authority, makes but little difference; but the
                                                  remedy is with the law making power, and that
                                                  remedy must be asserted. The freedom of speech and
                                                  of the press belongs to the citizen, and the law,
                                                  and not the President or Governor, must regulate
                                                  the abuse of those great agencies in popular
                                                  discussion. We adopt the language of Daniel
                                                  Webster (the great expounder of the Constitution,)
                                                  and declare: "important as we deem it to
                                                  discuss, on all proper occasions, the policy of
                                                  the measures at present pursued, it is still more
                                                  important to maintain the right of such discussion
                                                  to its full extent. Sentiments lately sprung up,
                                                  and now growing popular, render it necessary to be
                                                  explicit on this point. It is the ancient and
                                                  constitutional right of this people to canvass
                                                  public measures, and the merits of public men. It
                                                  is a home-bred right, a fire side privilege. It
                                                  has ever been enjoyed in every house, cottage and
                                                  cabin in the nation. It is not to be drawn in
                                                  controversy. It is as undoubted as the right of
                                                  breathing the air and walking on the earth.
                                                  Belonging to private life as a right, it belongs
                                                  to public as a duty. * * This high
                                                  constitutional privilege we will defend and
                                                  exercise within this House and without this House,
                                                  and in all places--in time of war, in time of
                                                  peace, and at all times, Living, we will assert;
                                                  dying, we will assert it; and should we leave no
                                                  other legacy to our children, by the blessing of
                                                  God we will leave to them the inheritance of free
                                                  principles, and the example of a manly,
                                                  independent and constitutional defense of
                                                  them."
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  emancipation proclamation of the President of the
                                                  United States is, in the opinion of this Senate,
                                                  an executive usurpation, a measure of great
                                                  injustice to the nation, and is calculated to
                                                  bring upon the country the dire calamities of
                                                  permanent disunion, murder, bloodshed, rapine, and
                                                  other nameless atrocities, and that the same ought
                                                  to be promptly withdrawn. We adopt the language of
                                                  John Quincy Adams, the learned and able statesman,
                                                  now no more, and declare: "The principle
                                                  is, that the emancipation of enemies'
                                                  slaves is not amongst the acts of legitimate war.
                                                  As related to the owners, it is a destruction of
                                                  private property, no where warranted by the usages
                                                  of war.* *
                                                  No such right is acknowledged as a law of war
                                                  by writers who admit any limitation. The right of
                                                  putting to death all prisoners of war in cold
                                                  blood, and without special cause, might as well be
                                                  represented to be a law of war, or the right to
                                                  use poisoned weapons, or the right to
                                                  assassinate."
                                                  Resolved, That this war, so
                                                  long desolating the land, and wasting the blood
                                                  and treasure of a kindred people, ought to be
                                                  speedily brought to a close, either by the active
                                                  overthrow of the rebellion by force of arms or by
                                                  the more humane and Christian agencies of
                                                  compromise and concession; and that we solemnly
                                                  declare our conviction that one or the other mode
                                                  must be soon successful, or the nation is undone.
                                                  The majority of this Senate favored the latter
                                                  mode of settlement, as the legitimate remedy for
                                                  sectional passion; but the party in possession of
                                                  the Government adopted the war policy, and its
                                                  experiments have been attended with but little
                                                  advantage. We suspect that the declaration of
                                                  Secretary of Seward is to be fulfilled, and that
                                                  war and coercion is no the rightful remedy for our
                                                  troubles. In his dispatch to Mr. Adams, our
                                                  minister to England under date of April 10, 1861,
                                                  Mr Seward said: "For these reasons, he
                                                  (President Lincoln) could not be disposed to
                                                  reject a cardinal dogma of theirs [the seceding
                                                  States,] namely, that the Federal Government could
                                                  not reduce the seceding States to obedience by
                                                  conquest, even though he was disposed to question
                                                  the proposition. But, in fact, the President
                                                  willingly accepts it as true. Only an imperial or
                                                  despotic Government could have the right to
                                                  subjugate disaffected and insurrectionary States.
                                                  This Federal Republican system of ours is of all
                                                  forms of Government, the very one which is most
                                                  unfitted for such a labor." This Senate
                                                  neither controverts nor adopts the theory to the
                                                  despotism of coercion, nor the ability of the
                                                  Federal Government to reduce to obedience the
                                                  seceding States; but it may ask the world to
                                                  decide, if that there be true for what has this
                                                  carnage and desolation been inaugurated, and for
                                                  what purpose do these graves open to receive the
                                                  gallant soldiers of the republic? If it be for any
                                                  purpose less sacred than the restoration of the
                                                  Union, then this Senate declares that the war is
                                                  unworthy the support of a civilized and Christian
                                                  nation, and must end in the final overthrow of our
                                                  present form of constitutional Government.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1863
                              
                              Mr. WILLIAMS presented a petition from certain citizens of Lawrence
                                    county, asking for legislation enforcing the 13th article of
                                    Constitution, designed to prevent negro immigration.
                              Mr. ANDERSON presented a petition from sundry citizens of St.
                                    Joseph county, asking father legislation for the protection of
                                    wild game. Which were read and severally referred to the
                                          Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                              
                                    OUR BRAVE SOLDIERS
                                    Mr. PUETT offered a joint resolution in regard to the armies
                                          of the United States, commendatory of their valor, and
                                          especially thanking the troops from Indiana. Also
                                          endorsing and approving the conduct of Gens. McClellan,
                                          Burnside, Buell, Rosecrans and other officers who have led
                                          our army to victory, and applauding their patriotic valor,
                                          which was read the first time and referred to the
                                                Judiciary Committee.
                              
                              
                                    ELECTION OF U.S. SENATORS.
                                    Mr. SHOAFF offered a resolution that  the House, the Senate
                                          concurring, will go into the election of United States
                                          Senators this afternoon at 3 o'clock.
                                    Mr. NOYES made an ineffectual motion to insert 3
                                          o'clock to-morrow instead of 3 o'clock
                                          to day.
                                    The resolution was adopted.
                              
                              
                                    FEES AND SALARIES.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                          directing the proper committee to inquire into the
                                          expediency of a bill to reduce fees and salaries of
                                          officers throughout the State, which may be ascertained to
                                          be too high.
                              
                              
                                    HOUSE POLICE.
                                    Mr. PUETT offered a resolution, which was adopted appointing
                                          a committee of three to inquire as to the number of
                                          officers and assistants necessary to aid in carrying on
                                          the business of the House, and reducing them to the lowest
                                          number.
                              
                              
                                    NEGRO IMMIGRATION
                                    Mr. WOOLLEN offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                          referring all bills and resolutions relative to the 13th
                                          Article of the Constitution to a select committee of one
                                          from each Congressional District.
                              
                              
                                    COSTS OF MALICIOUS PROSECUTIONS.
                                    Mr. HALL offered a resolution, which was adopted, relative to
                                          the reduction of lees and costs in cases of prosecution
                                          through spite and malice.
                              
                              
                                    SICK SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                          instructing the committee on Military
                                                Affairs to inquire what legislation is
                                          necessary farther to provide for the comfort of sick and
                                          wounded soldiers in the service of their country, and for
                                          the maintenance of those permanently disabled.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. GREGORY. [7] amending section 10 of the act defining
                                          the jurisdiction of Justices of the Peace.
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN, [8] amending section two of the act relative
                                          to copartnerships--relative to the duties of surviving
                                          partners.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, [9] repealing the act relative to fees and
                                          salaries of State officials, passed June 8, 1861.
                                    By Mr. JAMES, [10] investing the title to the grounds of the
                                          County Seminary of Grant county in the County
                                          Commissioners of said county.
                                    By Mr. GIVEN, [11] an act to enforce the 13th article of the
                                          Constitution prohibiting negro immigration and to provide
                                          for the registering of all resident negroes.
                                    By Mr. CASS [12] for the relief of Joseph M. Dorr, of Porter
                                          county, perfecting the title of certain lands in him.
                                    By Mr. NOYES. [13] to create the 14th Judicial Circuit,
                                          consisting of the comities of Elkhart, Lagrange, Steuben,
                                          DeKalb and Noble.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. HOSTETTER offered a resolution, which was adopted, that
                                          the Committee on Roads inquire into the
                                          expediency of exempting the volunteers discharged from the
                                          United States service for disability from working on the
                                          roads.
                                    
                                          SWAMP LANDS.
                                          Mr. COLLINS offered a resolution which was adopted,
                                                instructing the Swamp Land
                                                  Committee to inquire whether additional
                                                legislation is necessary to enable claimants on the
                                                Swamp Land Fund to obtain their money.
                                    
                                    
                                          AGRICULTURAL.
                                          Mr. WATERMAN offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                                relative to the act of Congress granting lands to
                                                Agricultural Societies and Colleges--instructing
                                                proper committee to inquire what legislation is
                                                necessary in order to obtain what may be due Indiana
                                                in the premises.
                                    
                                    
                                          GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                          On motion by Mr. BROWN, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That a committee of three on the part
                                                  of the House and two on the part of the Senate, be
                                                  appointed to confer with his Excellency, the
                                                  Governor, and ascertain at what time it will suit
                                                  his pleasure to deliver his annual message to the
                                                  General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          The SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Brasnham, Brown and
                                                Niblack, to act on the part of the House.
                                    
                                    
                                          TEMPERANCE.
                                          Mr. BREGAN introduced a bill [14] amending the act
                                                regulating the retailing of spirituous and vinous
                                                liquors which was read the first time and passed to
                                                the second reading.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, January 14, 1863.
                              
                              n motion by Mr. BROWN, of Wells, it was--
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Judiciary be
                                                  instructed to inquire whether, or not, sufficient
                                                  power is invert by the Constitution to the
                                                  legislative branches of the State government, to
                                                  compel the attendance of their members; if not,
                                                  whether or not an amendment or amendments to the
                                                  Constitution, conferring such power be advisable;
                                                  or, if such power is given by the Constitution,
                                                  whether or not any legislation in pursuance there
                                                  is needed, and that they report, at the earliest
                                                  practicable period in the session, by bill or
                                                  otherwise.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              On motion by Mr. MOORE, in was--
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  committee on the Judiciary be
                                                  instructed to inquire into the expediency of
                                                  abolishing the office of Attorney General, with
                                                  power to report by bill or otherwise.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL offered the following, which was adopted:

                                    

                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, It is said that the
                                                  Senator from Henry, Hon. Joshua H. Mellett, the
                                                  Senator from Laporte, Hon. A. Teegarden, the
                                                  Senator from Shelby, Hon. Martin M. Ray, the
                                                  Senator from Miami, Hon. Daniel R. Bearss, have
                                                  since their election as Senators, been appointed
                                                  and discharged the duties of Enrolling or Drafting
                                                  Commissioners for their respective counties,
                                                  therefore
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  committee on Elections be
                                                  instructed to inquire and report to this Senate
                                                  whether the Senators aforesaid have vacated their
                                                  seats in this Senate, by their acceptance of the
                                                  position of Carolling or Drafting Commissioner as
                                                  aforesaid.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. BRADLEY, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Auditor of State he requested to communicate to
                                                  the Senate, whether the Taxes levied by the State
                                                  from time to time upon the property of
                                                  corporations for common School purposes, has been
                                                  set aside and distributed to the Counties as
                                                  Principal of the Common School Fund, or whether or
                                                  the same has been distributed under the head of
                                                  Interest of Common School Fund.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. MARCH introduced a joint resolution [S. 1] to amend the
                                          Constitution so as to empower incorporated cities and
                                          towns to levy special school taxes, which was read the
                                          first time and passed to the second reading.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced read the first time and
                                          passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. NEW, [6] ceding to the United States of America
                                          jurisdiction over certain lands and their appurtenances,
                                          in the county of Marion, and exempting the same from
                                          taxation.
                                    By Mr. WILSON, [7] to amend sections 33 and 35 of an act to
                                          provide for a general system of common schools, approved
                                          March 11. 1861.
                                    By Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph [8] to repeal an act to provide
                                          for the election of the Attorney General of the State,
                                          approved February 21, 1855.
                                     By Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, [9] repealing the tenth section
                                          of an act entitled an act to establish Courts of
                                          Conciliation, approved June 11, 1852.
                              
                              
                                    ELECTION OF STATE OFFICERS.
                                    The House resolution to go into the election of Agent of
                                          State, President of Sinking Fund Commissioners, State
                                          Printer and State Librarian at 4 p.m., to day was taken
                                          up.
                                    Mr. LANDERS moved to concur with an amendment striking out
                                          "State Printer." Last year the
                                          Democratic party contended that the office should be
                                          abolished, and he now wished the election for this officer
                                          to be deferred until it could be ascertained if economy
                                          would be promoted by abolishing the office.
                                    Mr. MOORE feared a trick. The party in caucus decided to go
                                          into the election and nominated a candidate, and he wanted
                                          to adhere to that action.
                                    The amendment was agreed to, and the resolution as amended
                                          was adopted.
                                    On motion, the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock,
                                          p. m.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    A message from the House announced the concurrence of that
                                          body in the resolution of the Senate to go into the
                                          election of President of Sinking Fund and other officers
                                          at 4 p.m.
                                    
                                          FEES AND SALARIES.
                                          Mr. WOLFE offered a resolution, which was adopted, that
                                                the Auditor of State be requested to lay before the
                                                Senate an abstract of fees and salaries on file in
                                                his office.
                                    
                                    
                                          ILLEGAL VOTING.
                                          Mr MARCH introduced joint resolution [2] to amend the
                                                2d section of Article of the Constitution--so that
                                                the Legislature can more effectually guard against
                                                fraudulent voting, which was read the first time and
                                                passed to the second reading.
                                    
                                    
                                          ANIMALS IN TOWNS.
                                          Mr. TEEGARDEN offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                                that the Committee on
                                                  Corporations report on the expediency of
                                                so amending the act incorporating cities as to make
                                                the owners of stock running at large liable for
                                                damage done.
                                          The hour fixed by the concurrent resolution having
                                                arrived upon the invitation of the House the Senate
                                                proceeded to the hall of the House to go into Joint
                                                Convention for the election of United States
                                                Senators.
                                          When the Senators returned to their chamber the Senate
                                                adjourned.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, January 14, 1863.
                              
                              The House resolution to elect United States Senators, with a Senate
                                    amendment that it be at 3 p.m. to-day was taken up and the
                                    amendment concurred in.
                              
                                    ROAD LAW.
                                    Mr. NOYES presented, a petition from citizens of Steuben
                                          county, for an amendment of the road law which was
                                          referred to the committee on roads.
                                    Mr. ATKISON offered a resolution, which was adopted, in
                                          reference to requiring but four days' work on the
                                          road from those liable to road duty.
                                    Mr PACKARD offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                                committee on railroads inquire
                                          what legislation is necessary to secure prompt
                                          transportation of freight.
                              
                              
                                    STATE OFFICERS.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB offered a concurrent resolution to proceed to the
                                          election of certain State officers at 4 p.m., to-day.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH made an ineffectual motion to amend by making
                                          the time 10 a.m. to-morrow.
                                    The resolution was adopted.
                              
                              
                                    STATE PRINTING OFFICE.
                                    Mr. WOODRUFF offered a resolution,  which was adopted, that
                                          the committee on Benevolent
                                                Institutions inquire into the propriety of
                                          establishing a printing office in the Deaf and Dumb
                                          Asylum, to do the State Printing.
                              
                              
                                    COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.
                                    Mr. WATERMAN offered a resolution instructing the
                                                committee on organization of Courts of
                                                Justice to prepare a bill abolishing
                                          Courts of Common pleas.
                                    Mr. PUETT moved to amend by making the resolution one of
                                          inquiry and not of imperative instruction. The amendment
                                          was agreed to, and the resolution adopted.
                              
                              
                                    WITNESSES.
                                    Mr. SHAFFER offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                          instructing the Committee on Judiciary
                                          to inquire as to the expediency of certain amendments of
                                          the Practice Act, providing for the re-enactment of
                                          section 238, which had been repealed.
                              
                              
                                    THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                    Mr. BURTON offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, Civil war has
                                                  existed in the United States for the past nineteen
                                                  months or more, calling forth all the energies of
                                                  the Government and involving in the fraternal
                                                  strife all that is sacred and dear to the American
                                                  people; and
                                                  WHEREAS, Indiana has
                                                  contributed largely and freely of both men and
                                                  money to the demands of the Government, under the
                                                  pledge of the Administration that the war should
                                                  be waged solely for the maintenance of the
                                                  Constitution and the enforcement of the law;
                                                  and
                                                  WHEREAS, The Administration
                                                  has proven false to that pledge, and under the
                                                  tyrant's plea of
                                                  ''military necessity,"
                                                  has usurped powers unwarranted by the Constitution
                                                  and unsanctioned by law, the exercise of which
                                                  falls heavily alike upon the loyal and disloyal,
                                                  the innocent and the guilty, thereby destroying
                                                  all the safeguards of freedom and independence
                                                  which the federal Constitution has thrown around
                                                  the citizen, and
                                                  WHEREAS, under this plea of
                                                  military necessity, the President as
                                                  Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy, has
                                                  issued an Abolition proclamation giving freedom to
                                                  the slaves from and after the 1st day of January,
                                                  1863; and in order that the people of Indiana and
                                                  other loyal States might not raise their voices
                                                  against this fatal blunder and plead for the
                                                  Constitution and the Union as our fathers made
                                                  them, he thereupon issued another proclamation
                                                  declaring martial law all over the United States,
                                                  denying to the citizens of loyal States where
                                                  civil authority should reign supreme, the
                                                  privilege of that sacred and cherished writ of
                                                  habeas corpus, thereby crippling free speech and
                                                  discussion upon his Abolition policy while he
                                                  might wield the largest army the world ever saw
                                                  for the purpose of accomplishing his hellish
                                                  scheme of emancipation without regard for State
                                                  laws, State Constitutions, or the reserved rights
                                                  of the States, and without regard for his former
                                                  vows and pledges to the contrary, which looked to
                                                  the restoration of the Union, with all the rights
                                                  and institutions of the several States unimpaired;
                                                  and
                                                  WHEREAS, The late elections
                                                  in Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, New Jersey,
                                                  Pennsylvania, and New York, by the triumph of
                                                  conservatism over fanaticism, have demonstrated
                                                  that the people(the honest voting yeomanry of the
                                                  land, who have to pay the fiddler while the
                                                  office-holders dance) utterly condemn and
                                                  repudiate the Abolition policy of the
                                                  Administration, which was made an issue before
                                                  them, as unwise, impolitic and unauthorized by
                                                  law; and the further fact that they regard his
                                                  unprecedented usurpations of power as a giant
                                                  stride to-ward "military
                                                  despotism," and therefore dangerous to
                                                  the liberties of a free and loyal people;
                                                  therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That Indiana,
                                                  appealing to the one hundred thousand soldiers she
                                                  has sent to the field and to the millions of money
                                                  she has spent in the struggle, for proof of her
                                                  loyalty, and relying upon her long devotion and
                                                  fidelity to the Constitution and the Union for the
                                                  justice of her cause, throws herself behind the
                                                  broad shield of the Constitution, and views with
                                                  deep regret and alarm the weakness, indecision and
                                                  incompetency of the present Administration, whose
                                                  policy tends to strengthen instead of weakening
                                                  the rebellion, to prolong rather than to shorten
                                                  the war.
                                                  Resolved, That Indiana
                                                  recognizes in no Administration the government to
                                                  which she owes allegiance; that she, as a loyal
                                                  State, knows no loyalty save devotion and fidelity
                                                  to the Constitution of the country and as such
                                                  will assert and defend her right, or the right of
                                                  her citizens, to approve or condemn an
                                                  Administration, according as it is faithful or
                                                  unfaithful to that sacred chart of our
                                                  liberties.
                                                  Resolved, That the President
                                                  in refusing to heed the warning voice of the
                                                  conservative States North, which recently spoke in
                                                  thunder tones through the ballot-box, ignoring his
                                                  Abolition policy and unwarranted usurpations, and
                                                  demanding a return to the old landmarks of the
                                                  Constitution, hug exhibited a reckless disregard
                                                  for the wishes of the people and a wanton
                                                  determination to cater to the whims of Abolition
                                                  fanatics, even though it involves our Government
                                                  and our liberties in one common ruin.
                                                  Resolved, That Indiana has
                                                  viewed with alarm, and borne with forbearance the
                                                  arrest and imprisonment of her citizens without
                                                  authority, save the straps upon the shoulders of
                                                  the military officers, and without cause save some
                                                  vague charge of disloyalty, until justice, liberty
                                                  and humanity proclaim it intolerable and cry for
                                                  retribution.
                                                  Resolved, That while the
                                                  President persists in his Abolition policy in the
                                                  conduct of the war, and sanctions the
                                                  indiscriminate arrest and incarceration of her
                                                  good and loyal citizens, denying them the
                                                  privilege of the writ of habeas corpus, Indiana
                                                  will never voluntarily contribute another dollar,
                                                  to be used for such wicked, inhuman and unholy
                                                  purposes.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. BURTON moved to refer his resolutions to the
                                                committee on Federal
                                          Relations.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON made an ineffectual motion to lay the motion on
                                          the table.
                                    The motion to refer was agreed to by yeas 57, nays 37.
                                    Mr. KENDRICK offered a resolution, to the effect that there
                                          was every reason to believe that there were traitors in
                                          the loyal States, sympathizing, communicating with, and
                                          aiding traitors in the South; and that their machinations
                                          ought to be promptly met by the Government, justifying
                                          arrests by the military authorities of persons
                                          discouraging enlistments, as legal and constitutional.
                                    Mr. NEWMAN offered a resolution, declaring all engaged in
                                          rebellion against the government of the United States
                                          guilty of treason, and that they ought to suffer the
                                          penalty prescribed by law therefor.
                                    These resolutions were severally referred to the
                                                committee on Federal
                                          Relation.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:

                                    

                                    By Mr. FORESTER. [15] authorizing the Governor to issue- a
                                          patent to Aaron Pope for certain lands in Laporte
                                          county.
                                    By Mr. GREGORY. [16] to enable landlords and tenants to
                                          contract with each other so as to protect the rights of
                                          all parties.
                                    By Mr. FORESTER, [17] relative in deeds of conveyance by
                                          executors.
                                    By Mr. BROWN, [18] amending section 6 of the act regarding
                                          estrays and property adrift.
                                    By Mr. PACKARD. [19] supplemental to an act enforcing the
                                          13th article of the constitution.
                                    By Mr. ATKISON. [20] amending section 46 of the common school
                                          law.
                                    By Mr. BIRD. [21] relative to interest on bonds, bills and
                                          notes; authorizing 10 per cent, par annum, as stipulated
                                          between parties.
                                    By Mr. GIVEN, [22] amending section 27 of an act regulating
                                          the granting of divorces.
                                    By Mr. ANDERSON, [23] relative to titles in lands held by
                                          Agricultural Societies.
                                    Br Mr. NEWMAN, [24] amending section 10 of the common school
                                          law.
                                    By Mr. LEMMON of Spencer, [25] relative to the duty of
                                          Supervisors.
                              
                              
                                    LEGISLATIVE EXPENSES
                                    The bill [S.1] appropriating $75,000 for the expenses of the
                                          present session of the Legislature was taken up, read
                                          twice, the rules being suspended for that purpose and
                                          referred to the committee on ways and
                                                means.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION
                                    The following House bills were read the second time and
                                          referred to appropriate committees:
                                    
                                          Mr. Gregory's [7] justice's
                                                jurisdiction.
                                          Mr. Newman's [8] regulating
                                                partnerships.
                                          Mr. Miller's [9] fees and salaries.
                                          Mr. James' [10] Grant county
                                                Seminary.
                                          Mr. Given's [11] negro extension.
                                          Mr. Cass' [12] to relieve J. M.
                                                Dorr.
                                          Mr. Noyes' [13] 14th Judicial
                                                circuit.
                                          Mr. Bregan's [14] license act.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEGRO EXCLUSION.
                                          The SPEAKER announced the following select committee,
                                                one from each congressional district to whom are to
                                                be referred all bills relative to the 13th article
                                                of the constitution: Messrs. Woollen, Given, Ryan,
                                                Brown, Van Buskirk, Moorman, Hanna, Cass, Bird,
                                                Gregory and Leeds.
                                    
                                    
                                          The $200 EXEMPTS.
                                          On motion by Mr. Brown, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That his
                                                  Excellency, the Governor be requested to inform
                                                  this House at an early day, whether any money has
                                                  been paid by any person or persons conscientiously
                                                  opposed to bearing arms, to any military or other
                                                  officer in the State; and if so, what disposition
                                                  has been made of the same.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. HANNA, offered the following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  WHEREAS, His Excellency,
                                                  Governor O.P. Morton in the midst of his arduous
                                                  and patriotic endeavors as Commander-in-Chief of
                                                  the military and naval forces of the State of
                                                  Indiana, has neglected to deliver his annual
                                                  message to the General Assembly thereof;
                                                  therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That this
                                                  House adopt the exalted and patriotic sentiments
                                                  contained in the message lately delivered to the
                                                  Legislature of New York by his Excellency, Horatio
                                                  Seymour.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Pending its consideration, the Senate, preceded by the
                                                President thereof, entered the hall, and both Houses
                                                met in.
                                    

                                    
                                          JOINT CONVENTION.
                                          The PRESIDENT of the Senate called the Convention to
                                                order, stating the object thereof.
                                          Senator RAY offered a resolution which was adopted to
                                                the effect that the Convention at once proceed to
                                                business.
                                    
                                    
                                          U.S. SENATOR SHORT TERM.
                                          Representative BIRD nominated Hon. David Turpie. of
                                                White county, as a candidate for the term of United
                                                States Senator expiring March 3, 1863.
                                          Representative MOORMAN no9minated Hon. Daniel D. Pratt,
                                                of Cass county.
                                          Mr. Turpie received 85 votes; Mr. Pratt 62.
                                          The PRESIDENT declared Mr. Turpie duly elected.
                                          The convention then proceeded to ballot for
                                    
                                    
                                          U.S. SENATOR. LONG TERM.
                                          Representative BLOCHER nominated Hon. Thomas A.
                                                Hendricks of Marion county.
                                          Senator MARCH nominated Hon. Joseph A. Wright, of Parke
                                                county.
                                          Mr. Hendricks received 85 votes, Mr. Wright 61, and
                                                Shuyler Colfax 1, (Representative Kilgore)
                                          The PRESIDENT declared Mr. Hendricks duly elected
                                                United States Senator for six years from the 4th day
                                                of March, 1863.
                                          The Convention then proceeded to ballot for
                                    
                                    
                                          AGENT OF STATE
                                          Representative HOLCOMB nominated John C. Walker, of
                                                Laporte.
                                          Representative MOORMAN nominated James D. McDonald, of
                                                Fountain.
                                          Mr. Walker received 83 votes, Mr. McDonald 69, blank 1,
                                                (Representative Forester.)
                                          Mr. Walker was declared duly elected.
                                          The Convention then proceeded to ballot for
                                    
                                    
                                          PRESIDENT BOARD SINKING FUND.
                                          Representative HOLCOMB nominated Washington H. Talbott,
                                                of Marion.
                                          Senator MARCH nominated Elijah B. Martindale, of
                                                Marion.
                                          Mr. Talbott received 86 votes; Mr. Martindale, 60, Gen.
                                                E. Dumont, 1, (Representative Atkison.)
                                          Mr. Talbot was declared duly elected.

                                          

                                          The Convention proceeded to ballot for
                                    
                                    
                                          STATE LIBRARIAN.
                                          Representative HOLCOMB nominated David Stevenson, of
                                                Marion.
                                          Representative MOORMAN nominated R. D. Brown of
                                                Dearborn.
                                          Mr. Stevenson received 85 votes; Mr. Brown. 61;
                                                excused, 1, (Representative Brown.)
                                          Mr Stevenson was declared duly elected.
                                          On motion by Senator WOLFE, the officers of the
                                                Convention were directed to certify the elections
                                                just made to His Excellency, the Governor.
                                          Senator COBB moved to adjourn to 10 o'clock
                                                a.m. on Friday to elect other State Officers.
                                          Senator MARCH rose to a point of order, that this
                                                motion was contrary to custom and to the joint
                                                rules.
                                          The PRESIDENT of the Senate decided the motion was out
                                                of order, and said: There is no other business now
                                                before the Convention for which we have met this
                                                afternoon, I therefore pronounce the Convention
                                                adjourned sine die.
                                          When the Senators had retired the House was called to
                                                order by the Speaker, and immediately adjourned.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    THURSDAY. January 15, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. MARCH offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Secretary and Auditor of State and the President of the Board of
                                    Sinking Fund Commissioners report to the Senate the amount of
                                    all fees received by them, and what proportions had been paid
                                    into the State Treasury.
                              
                                    COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Randolph, offered a resolution that the
                                                committee on Organizations of
                                          Courts report on the expediency of reducing Boards of
                                          County Commissioners to one member, and that his pay be $5
                                          per day.
                                    On motion by Mr WILLIAMS the resolution was amended by
                                          striking out 5$.
                                    The resolution as amended was adopted.
                              
                              
                                    AGENT OF STATE.
                                    Mr. MOORE offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                          Judiciary Commit tee inquire into the expediency of
                                          abolishing the office of Agent of State, and report by
                                          bill or otherwise.
                                    Mr. GRAVES offered the following which was rejected:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on County and Township
                                                  Business be instructed to inquire into
                                                  the into the expediency of allowing and requiring
                                                  Boards of County Commissioners to make a suitable
                                                  allowance to County Recorders for keeping up the
                                                  general index to Deed Records in their respective
                                                  offices.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. HARTLEY, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on County and Township
                                                  Business inquire into the expediency of
                                                  reporting a bill transferring the location,
                                                  vacation or change of all public highways within
                                                  the respective Townships, from the Board of County
                                                  Commissioners to the township Trustees.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. DICKINSON. [10] to amend section nine of an act of
                                          amendment, approved March 9, 1861 of an act approved
                                          February 12, 1855, amending section second of an act
                                          concerning the organization of voluntary associations, and
                                          repealing former laws in reference thereto.
                                    By Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, [11] repealing the sixth section
                                          of the practice act, approved June 18. 1852.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    Senate bills were read the second time and referred to
                                          appropriate committees, to-wit:
                                    Mr. Dickinson's, [2] volunteer's
                                          families.
                                    Mr. Browne, of Randolph's, [8] amending section 103
                                          of the Practice Act.
                                    Mr. Blair's [4] amending sections 1 and 3 of the
                                          District Attorney's docket fee Act.
                                    Mr. Dickinson's, [5] amending section 6 of the act
                                          vacating towns, streets, alleys, &c.
                                    Mr. New's, [6] ceding to the United States certain
                                          lands.
                                    Mr Wilson's, [7] amending sections 83 and 85 of
                                          Common School act.
                                    Mr. Browne, of Randolph's, [3] abolishing the office
                                          of Attorney General.
                                    Mr. Browne, of Randolph's, [9] abolishing courts of
                                          conciliation.
                                    Mr. MELLETT offered the following, which was laid on the
                                          table.
                                    That the committee are hereby instructed to place said bill
                                          [9] carefully in a pigeon hole and not return it to the
                                          Senate.
                                    Mr. MARCH suggested that the Senator from Henry, [Mr.
                                          Mellett] be directed to watch the pigeon holes.
                                          [Laughter.]
                                    Mr. March's joint resolutions proposing amendments
                                          to the Constitution [1] so that cities and towns may levy
                                          a special school tax and [2] guarding against fraudulent
                                          voting, were severally read the second time and referred
                                          to appropriate committees.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. MURRAY, from the committee on Military
                                                Affairs, reported back the House
                                          concurrent resolution recommending an increase of the pay
                                          of soldiers and a reduction of the pay of officers of the
                                          army, with a recommendation that its passage was
                                          inexpedient.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS hoped the report would not be adopted, if the
                                          private soldiers continued in the army it was only an act
                                          of justice to increase their pay.
                                    Mr. RAY hoped the resolution would be sent back to the
                                          committee. He did not think there were five members of the
                                          Sen-  ate who would
                                          vote against increasing the pay of private soldiers. There
                                          might be a difference of opinion in regard to reducing pay
                                          of officers. He moved to recommit with instructions to
                                          strike out all that relates to the reduction of the pay of
                                          officers.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD argued against the resolution on the ground
                                          that the country could not bear the increased expense.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL would not fairly represent his
                                          constituent's if he did not support the
                                          resolution. The people of his section taxed themselves
                                          heavily to, in effect, increase the pay of soldiers, by
                                          making provision for the families of soldiers. The expense
                                          should be borne equally, and the increase of pay would do
                                          this.
                                    Mr. SHOULDERS heartily approved the resolution. He came here
                                          to do all he could to increase the pay and the comforts of
                                          soldiers.
                                    Mr. COBB argued in favor of the resolution, cost what it
                                          might to meet the increased expense. The men should be
                                          paid something near the value of their services, and it
                                          this generation could not pay it the next must. While he
                                          was in favor of this he was opposed to destroying property
                                          by proclamations and edicts.
                                    Mr. MURRAY would favor the recommittal, with instructions. He
                                          was in favor of the increase to soldiers and opposed to
                                          reducing the pay of officers. He would go further, and
                                          vote for a till taxing the people of the State for the
                                          additional pay. He did not think the action here would
                                          effect any good, because it would be disregarded by
                                          Congress.
                                    Mr. WOLFE did not think this Senate should stop to ask what
                                          would be the action in Congress. We should do right.-- He
                                          feared there were men in Congress who would disregard the
                                          instructions of the people, but we should do here as we
                                          would do if we were there, he was in favor of the
                                          resolution as it came from the House. The pay of officers
                                          was out of all proportion to that of privates. In the army
                                          corps the pay of the officers would amount to as much as
                                          that of the privates. By adopting the resolution of the
                                          House you did not increase the expense, but merely took
                                          from the pockets of one class and gave it to another and
                                          harder working class of the army. He moved to amend the
                                          amendment by instructing the committee to report the
                                          resolution back as it came from the House.
                                    Mr. MELLETT favored the increase to noncommissioned officers
                                          and privates, and opposed the reduction of the pay of
                                          officers. The argument that the reduction in the value of
                                          the currency demanded an increase of the pay of privates
                                          applied with equal force to officers.
                                     Mr. LANDERS as a member of the Military
                                                committee, thought it but right that he
                                          should say that he was in favor of the resolution
                                          precisely as it came from the House. 
                                    Mr. MARCH was in favor of the resolutions as they came from
                                          the Committee.-- The rates of pay is wrong and always be
                                          been, It was the offspring of aristocrat, governments, and
                                          not suitable to the genius of our institutions.
                                    Mr. RAY favored increase of the pay of privates on the ground
                                          of the reduction currency. The pay of officers had already
                                          been reduced by an act passed last July. and which took
                                          effect in October, and they were also taxed 3 per cent, on
                                          their salaries by the income tax bill. The induction in
                                          the value of the currency also affected them as well as it
                                          did the privates.
                                    On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS pending motions were laid on the
                                          table 18, nays 17.
                                    The Senate refused to concur in the committee report by years
                                          11, nays 35.
                                    Mr. RAY moved to strike out in the original resolution all
                                          that relates to pay officers.
                                    Mr. WOLFE made an ineffectual motion to lay that motion on
                                          the table.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, moved to amend the amendment by
                                          inserting in its proper place the words "twenty
                                          per cent" as applied to officers. 
                                    On motion by Mr. MURRAY the amendment was laid on the
                                          table.
                                    Mr. BLAIR moved to strike out the words "at least 25
                                          per cent." and insert "not exceeding 25
                                          per cent."
                                    On motion by Mr. RAY the amendment was laid on the table by
                                          years 32, nays 13. 
                                    The pending motion [Mr. Ray's] to strike out was
                                          rejected by yeas 22, nays 23.
                                    Mr. BROWNE of Randolph, moved to amend by striking out all
                                          that relates to the pay of officers, and by instructing
                                          our Representatives in Congress to inquire into the
                                          expediency of reducing the pay of Commissioned Officers,
                                          so as to more nearly equalize the pay of officers and
                                          soldiers.
                                    Mr. COBB moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, JANUARY 15, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. GREGORY offered a resolution, which was adopted, instruction
                                    the Judiciary Committee to inquire respecting
                                    the laws punishing assaults.
                              Mr. MASON offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                          Committee on Judiciary as to the
                                    expediency of amending the election law.
                              
                                    STATE OFFICERS.
                                    Mr. WOLFE offered a concurrent resolution, which was adopted,
                                          to proceed to  the
                                          election of Directors of the State Prison, North and
                                          South, and of State Printer, at 2 o'clock,
                                          Wednesday next, in joint convention.
                              
                              
                                    A NATIONAL CONVENTION, &C.
                                    Mr. FERRIS offered the following: 
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the law of
                                                  Congress erecting certain counties of Virginia
                                                  into a State called the State of "Western
                                                  Virginia," is an original and independent
                                                  act of revolution and involves a plain breach of
                                                  both the Constitutions of Virginia and the nation.
                                                  Unlike the emancipation proclamation, it is not
                                                  sought to be justified by its authors on the
                                                  pretense of military necessity. Its passage by
                                                  Congress and approval by the President betray,
                                                  even more than any former act of Congress or of
                                                  the President had betrayed, the deliberate purpose
                                                  of the Administration and the political majority
                                                  of Congress to set aside the Constitution and
                                                  establish upon the common ruins of the Union and
                                                  the sovereignty of the States a revolutionary
                                                  government, monarchical and military in its
                                                  character,and in which all the great guarantees of
                                                  civil liberty, recently so recklessly assailed,
                                                  will be known no more for ever.
                                                  Resolved, That it is to the
                                                  people we must look for a restoration of the Union
                                                  and the blessings of peace, and to these ends we
                                                  should direct our earnest and honest efforts, and
                                                  hence we are in favor of the assembling of a
                                                  national convention of all the States, at
                                                  Louisville, Kentucky, at the earliest practicable
                                                  period, to so adjust our national difficulties
                                                  that the States may live together in harmony, each
                                                  being secured in the rights guaranteed
                                                  respectively, to all by our fathers.
                                                  Resolved, That we earnestly
                                                  recommend a cessation of hostilities for such
                                                  period as may be necessary to allow the people of
                                                  the North and South to express, through a National
                                                  Convention, their wish for peace and the
                                                  maintenance of "the Union as it was and
                                                  the Constitution as it is."
                                                  Resolved, That the General
                                                  Government has no power under the Constitution, to
                                                  tax the people of the State of Indiana for the
                                                  purpose of raising money with which to buy the
                                                  slaves of the Southern States, and we now declare,
                                                  in advance, that all debts contracted or bonds
                                                  which may be issued for the purpose of paying for
                                                  any such slaves, we hold to be utterly void, for
                                                  want of authority to issue the same, and the State
                                                  of Indiana will never consent that her people
                                                  shall be taxed for any such purpose.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. NOYES moved to lay the resolution on the table.
                                    Mr. ATKISON moved an amendment, that the vote be taken
                                          separately. He was in favor of the first of the series. To
                                          the others he objected.
                                    The motion was agreed to and the House refused to lay on the
                                          table the first resolution by nays 59.
                                    The question recurring on laying on the table the three
                                          remaining resolutions:
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded and being ordered and taken
                                          resulted--yeas 30, nays 61--as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Anderson,
                                                  Atkison, Baker, Budd, Cass, Chambers, Davis,
                                                  Forester, Gregory, Griffith, Hershey, Higgins,
                                                  Hutchings, James, Johnson, Junes,
                                                  Kendrick,Kilgore, Lamb, Moorman, Morgan, Newman,
                                                  Noyes, Perry, Pettibone, Robinson, Stone,
                                                  Tarkington, VanBuskirk and Woodruff--30
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Abbett, Bird,
                                                  Blocher, Bregan, Brown, Burton, Byerle, Collins,
                                                  Cook, De Bruler, Donaldson, Ferris, Garvin, Given,
                                                  Gregg, Hall, Hanna, Harden, of Washington, Hardin,
                                                  of Perry, Harney, Hetfield, Hon, Hostetter,
                                                  Howard, Howell, Howk, Humphreys, Kemp, of Dubois,
                                                  Kemp, of Vigo, Lake, Lasselle, Lee, Leeds, Lemmon,
                                                  of Harrison, Mason, McGauchey, Miller, Milroy,
                                                  Mustard, Mutz, Niblack, O'Brien, of
                                                  Martin, Osborn, Packard, Pendleton, Priest, Puett,
                                                  Reitz, Richardson, Rippey, Shaffer, Shoaff, of
                                                  Allen, Shoaff, of Jay, Spencer, Veach, Waterman,
                                                  Williams, Wolfe, Woollen, and Mr. Speaker--61.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the motion to lay on the table was rejected.
                                    The resolutions were then referred to the Committee
                                                on Federal Relations.
                              
                              
                                    HON. HORATIO SEYMOUR.
                                    Mr. PACKARD offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, By the House (the
                                                  Senate concurring) that the thanks of the General
                                                  Assembly of the State of Indiana are due, and are
                                                  hereby tendered to the Hon. Horatio Seymour,
                                                  Governor of New York, for the able and patriotic
                                                  defence of the Constitution, the laws and
                                                  liberties of the American citizen, contained in
                                                  his late message to the Legislature of that State,
                                                  and particularly for his just and high
                                                  appreciation of the interests, position, and
                                                  patriotism of the great North west. And that we
                                                  assure him that the conservative people of our own
                                                  beloved State are looking with deep solicitude and
                                                  confidence to his executive action, believing that
                                                  they will find in it a firm and determined
                                                  resistance to the encroachments of a despotic
                                                  Administration upon the liberties of the American
                                                  people, as well as a bold defense of the
                                                  independent sovereignty of the several States of
                                                  this Union; and that such action will receive the
                                                  warm sympathies and hearty co-operation of all the
                                                  conservative citizens of this State.
                                                  Resolved, That the Speaker of
                                                  the House be directed to forward copies of these
                                                  concurrent resolutions to his Excellency, Governor
                                                  Seymour, and to the Legislature of that State.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded and being ordered and taken
                                          resulted--yeas 53, nays 35--as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Bird,
                                                  Blocher, Bregan, Brown, Burton, Collins, Cook,
                                                  Donaldson, Ferris, Garvin, Hall, Hanna, Harden, of
                                                  Washington; Hardin, of Perry; Harney, Hetfield,
                                                  Hon, Howard, Howell, Howk, Humphreys, Kemp, of
                                                  Dubois, Kemp, of Vigo, Lake, Lasselle, Lemmon, of
                                                  Harri-son; Mason, McGauchey, Miller, Milroy, Mutz,
                                                  Niblack, O'Brien, of Martin; Osborn,
                                                  Packard, Pendleton, Puett, Reitz, Richardson,
                                                  Rippey, Ryan, Shaffer, Shoaff, of Allen; Shoaff,
                                                  of Jay; Spencer, Veach, Waterman, Williams, Wolfe,
                                                  Woodruff, Woollen and Mr. Speaker--53.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Abdill,
                                                  Anderson, Atkison, Baker, Branham, Budd, Byerle,
                                                  Cass, Chambers, Davis, Gregg, Gregory, Hershey,
                                                  Higgins, Hostetter, Hutchings, James, Johnson,
                                                  Jones, Kendrick, Kilgore, Lamb, Leeds, Marshall,
                                                  Moorman, Morgan, Mustard, Newman, Noyes, Perry,
                                                  Pettibone, Robinson, Stone, Tarkington, and Van
                                                  Buskirk,--35.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the resolutions were adopted.
                              
                              
                                    THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                    Mr. HUMPHREYS offered a resolution instructing Senators and
                                          requesting Representatives in Congress to take measures to
                                          suspend hostilities between the United States and the
                                          Confederate States, and for the calling of a National
                                          Convention for the reunion of the States under the
                                          Constitution.
                                    Mr. BAKER offered a resolution to sustain the government and
                                          the war.
                                    Mr. MORGAN offered a resolution against secession and the
                                          right of secession. These three resolutions were referred
                                          to the Committee on Federal
                                          Relations.
                                    Mr. BROWN called up the resolution to send all political
                                          resolutions to the Committee on Federal
                                                Relations, without debate, and it was
                                          adopted.
                              
                              
                              
                                    THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                    Mr. COOK offered a joint resolution condemning the war, but
                                          not the rebellion which was referred to the committee
                                          under the rule just adopted.
                              
                              
                                    THANKS TO NURSES.
                                    Mr. HON offered a resolution, which was adopted, returning
                                          the thanks of this House to the ladies of Indiana who have
                                          taken care of the sick and wounded in the hospitals.
                              
                              
                                    STATE PRINTER.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                          instructing the committee on Printing
                                          to inquire into the expediency of abolishing the office of
                                          public Printer.
                              
                              
                                    THIRD JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK introduced a bill [26] to fix the term of Courts
                                          in the 3d Judicial Circuit, which was read three times,
                                          under a suspension of the rules, and passed.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, [27] authorizing special sessions of County
                                          Commissioners in certain emergencies.
                                    By Mr. LAMB, [28] amending the game laws--making it unlawful
                                          to shoot or trap quails or pheasants between the 1st day
                                          of February and the 1st day of October.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, [29] amending the 37th section of the act
                                          defining misdemeanors--relative to disturbing lawful
                                          meetings of citizens so that persons asking questions, or
                                          who shall otherwise disturb public meetings shall be
                                          subject to a fine.
                                    By Mr. WOLFE, [30] amending section 2d of the practice act,
                                          relative to witnesses.
                                    By Mr. PACKARD, [31] authorizing the issuing of attachments
                                          on orders of injunction in certain cases.
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          House bills were read the second time and referred to
                                                appropriate committees, to-wit:

                                          Mr. Forester's [15] to relieve Wm. Pope. Mr.
                                                Gregory's [16] landlords and tenant.
                                          Mr. Forrester's [17] executors and real estate
                                                sales.
                                          Mr. Brown's [18] anti-negro.
                                          Mr. Packard's [19] concerning negroes.
                                          Mr. Atkison's [20] amending section 46 of the
                                                school law.
                                          Mr. Bird's [21] allowing 10 per cent
                                                interest.
                                          Mr. Given's [22] amending section 27 of the
                                                Divorce Law.
                                          Mr. Anderson's [23] defunct Agricultural
                                                Societies.
                                          Mr. Newman's [24] amending the school law.
                                          Mr. Lemmon of Spencer's [25] amending the
                                                school law.
                                          Mr. HANNA called up his resolution pending yesterday
                                                when the hour arrived for joint convention.
                                          On motion by Mr. DONALDSON it was laid on the
                                                table.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, January 16 , 1863.
                              
                              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS the bill [H,R. 26] changing the time of
                                    holding Courts in the 3d Judicial Circuit was taken up, and,
                                    under a suspension of the rules, read three times and passed
                                    yeas 43, nays 0.
                              
                                    CONTESTED ELECTION CASES.
                                    On motion by Mr. WOLFE, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  committee on elections be
                                                  requested to return to the Senate all matter
                                                  referred to them in regard to the contested seats
                                                  of Senators and the rights of Senators to their
                                                  seats; and that when said matters are to returned
                                                  the contestants and contestees, and the members
                                                  whose rights to seats are called in question by
                                                  the resolution introduced by Mr. Claypool [see
                                                  page 44 of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS,] have
                                                  the right to be heard before the Senate, by
                                                  themselves or by counsel; and, when so argued, the
                                                  same matter be returned to said committee for its
                                                  further action.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. SHIELDS reported the papers from the Committee
                                                on Elections, the order of business was
                                          suspended, and the case of W. H. Dill, Esq., contesting
                                          the seat of Mr. Dickinson, the sitting member from the
                                          counties of Noble, DeKalb and Steuben, was taken up. It
                                          was understood to be a test case, involving a point of law
                                          which would govern in several other cases.
                                    On motion, seats were provided for tr parties and their
                                          attorneys on the floor of the Senate.
                                    The PRESIDENT called Mr. Shields, the chairman of the
                                                committee on Elections, to the
                                          Chair.
                                    Hon. JOSEPH E. McDONALD, as the attorney for Mr. Dill,
                                          addressed the Senate on the legal points at issue. The
                                          records show that Mr. Dickinson, and other members whose
                                          seats are contested, act as Enrolling Commissioners. Art.
                                          2. sec. 9, of the Constitution of the State provides that
                                          "no person holding a lucrative office or
                                          appointment under the United States, or under this State,
                                          shall be eligible to seat in the General Assembly, nor
                                          shall any person hold more than one lucrative office at
                                          the same time, except as in the Constitution expressly
                                          provided." He quoted from Chief Justice Marshall,
                                          in the case of the United States vs. Morris, to define the
                                          meaning of an office, and also from 8th Blackford, page
                                          329, the case of Daley vs. The State, where the Supreme
                                          Court of Indiana adopted the definition given by
                                          Blackstone, as its decision or definition of the term.
                                          Now, was an Enrolling and Drafting Commissioner an office
                                          under this definition? There might be some doubt about the
                                          Enrolling Commissioner, but could be none as to the
                                          Drafting Commissioner. His business was continuous, and
                                          the emolument was lucrative. The office was created under
                                          the Act of Congress amending the Act of 1795, to give the
                                          President power to call out the  militia for a longer term
                                          than 90 days, and to provide rules and regulations
                                          therefor. This made the rules and regulations a part and
                                          parcel of the law. General order No. 99, issued in August.
                                          1862, prescribed the duties of Enrolling and Draft
                                          Commissioners. It was the act of the President by his
                                          agent, the Secretary of War, and was clearly a part of the
                                          law.-- The case decided by Chief Justice Marshall was
                                          pertinent to those under consideration--that of the United
                                          States vs. Morris. It was there decided that the
                                          Superintendent of Fortifications, although not expressly
                                          created by law, was an office, for reasons which he read.
                                          As to the definition of "ineligible" in
                                          our State Constitution, he read from 15th Indiana Reports,
                                          McPetridge vs. Carson, and from Ashing on Parliamentary
                                          law, commencing at page 31. The case quoted (McF. vs C.)
                                          he contended applied to the case under consideration. In
                                          the case of Mr. Browne, of Randolph, Mr. McDonald said
                                          that he (Browne) was elected at a special election, to
                                          fill a vacancy caused by the acceptance of a military
                                          appointment by General Stone. The law provides for the
                                          election of Senators biennially. His point was that under
                                          the law, the result of a special election could only hold
                                          until the time fixed by law for holding the election. It
                                          was also alleged by the contestant that Mr., Browne, held
                                          by appointment the office of Circuit Judge for one day He
                                          was unable to see that this was a disqualification, as the
                                          office was at the same time filled by another.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, questioned the similarity of the
                                          cases quoted to those under consideration. On the point
                                          that persons ineligible at the time of election, but
                                          eligible at the period they would be required to act in
                                          the office to which they may be elected, he cited the
                                          cases of John Randolph, of Virginia, and Henry Clay, of
                                          Kentucky, and the more recent case of John Young Brown, of
                                          Kentucky. The object of the Constitutional provision
                                          requiring one half of the Senators to fee elected
                                          biennially, was to secure the coming in of one hall of the
                                          Senate every two years, but such provision could not be
                                          construed as prohibiting elections at other times than
                                          once in every two years. Were such the case, then there
                                          would have to be in his case two elections to fill one
                                          vacancy, created by General Stone's
                                          disqualification. He claimed that one election was
                                          sufficient, and that the person so elected was entitled to
                                          serve out the balance of the unexpired time of his
                                          predecessor. The time at which the question of eligibility
                                          of a Senator commenced was when he presented himself to
                                          take his seat, and not the time of his election. The
                                          Constitution provided that no person holding a lucrative
                                          office shall be eligible to a seat in the General
                                          Assembly, while in some other cases it was provided that
                                          no one should be eligible to an election to a particular
                                          office.-- If an office be accepted by any one elected
                                          Senator after the election, the duties of which expire
                                          before he takes his seat as Senator, he is not
                                          disqualified from hold- that seat. He contended that
                                          Enrolling and Drafting Commissioners were not United
                                          States officers, but, if officers at all, were officers of
                                          the State militia, as the manner of filling the
                                          President's quota of the militia of the States
                                          was left to the Governors thereof, and that no soldier or
                                          officer was in the United States service until he had been
                                          mustered into the service. This clearly showed the
                                          State's control up to the time the volunteer
                                          entered the army of the United States by the act of
                                          mustering. The Commissioners had received no commissions
                                          from the United States, and had discharged no duties
                                          connected with the army of the United States that did not
                                          end prior to the turning over of the drafted militia to
                                          the United States, The Constitution provided that no
                                          office of the militia should be considered lucrative to
                                          which was fixed no annual salary, and there being no
                                          annual salary paid to the Commissioners referred to, no
                                          disqualification could follow in accepting the position
                                          that would prevent Senators from holding their seats on
                                          that floor.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. RAY said that Enrolling Commissioners were not officers
                                          within the meaning of the Constitution, because the
                                          militia of the State being under State authority, the
                                          agents selected by the Governor to enroll the same had but
                                          to perform a specific temporary duty, and when that
                                          service was performed the functions of the agency ceased.
                                          Such agencies do not necessarily become offices. In a late
                                          case the Supreme Court had decided that where a Senator
                                          had served as a member of the Military Auditing
                                                Committee, raised under an act defining
                                          specific duties and fixing the compensation of its
                                          members, he had not accepted an office, but a special
                                          appointment to perform a certain service. The Governor of
                                          Indiana was almost daily appointing agencies to discharge
                                          certain duties which he is required to perform, such as an
                                          agent to purchase arms, and agents to go to the army to
                                          look after the sick and wounded, bring back
                                          soldiers' money, &c. No law existed
                                          creating such agencies, or the agencies termed Enrolling
                                          Commissioners, and in no case could either be considered
                                          an office. But if the latter was an office it was a State
                                          and not a Federal office. In the case of Kerr vs. Jones,
                                          the Supreme Court lately held that if Col. Harrison, of
                                          the 70th Regiment, held a commission in the Federal army
                                          he was holding two offices, and could not retain that of
                                          Reporter  of the
                                          Supreme Court. But if he had been a Colonel of the drafted
                                          militia he would not have been disqualified from still
                                          holding the office of Reporter. The call for that militia
                                          was but for nine months, and no annual salary could be
                                          affixed. He contended that the President had made the call
                                          not directly on the militia but upon the State Executive.
                                          Congress had the right to pass a law directly calling out
                                          the militia, bat it had not done so. The President had no
                                          power to control the State militia until it was in the
                                          active service of the United States. The active service
                                          did not commence before the muster into the service of the
                                          militiamen. The duties of Enrolling Commissioners were to
                                          enroll the able-bodied militia of the counties. They never
                                          were appointed Drafting Commissioners, but executed the
                                          duties of drawing by lot from the enrolled militia, under
                                          orders from the Adjutant General of the State. When this
                                          was done the names were reported to the sheriff of the
                                          counties, who called out the drafted men. Judge Story, in
                                          his commentaries says, that the President of the United
                                          States is not Commander-in-Chief of the militia until they
                                          are called into active service. Until that is done, they
                                          are under the control of the Executive of the several
                                          States. If an office, it was a State office. It was not a
                                          civil, but a military office of the State, and excepted by
                                          the Constitution as a disqualifying office. The usage of
                                          Parliament was cited to show that the statesmen in
                                          England, as well as in this country, held that
                                          ineligibility at the period of election did not have force
                                          if the party was eligible at the period of taking the
                                          seat. The weight of authority was all in favor of this
                                          view. He asked when the prohibition applied to Mr.
                                          Dickinson? Not when he was elected in 1860, for he was
                                          eligible then and had served two sessions since, nor
                                          during the vacation, because he had held no office that
                                          did not expire with the expiration of its temporary
                                          duties. It could not be now, for the Constitution said no
                                          one was eligible to a seat who "holds" a
                                          lucrative office, and he held no such office then. The
                                          Enrollment was made in August and the draft concluded in
                                          October. Administrative and judicial offices were
                                          continuous, legislative were periodic. A holder of the
                                          former class could not hold two offices at the same time
                                          because of their incompatibility, but the latter class
                                          could divest themselves of the one at their pleasure and
                                          hold the other without begetting any disqualification, for
                                          when the incompatibility was removed the party could
                                          assume the other office. Many years ago, in 1826, a
                                          resolution was introduced in the Legislature declaring
                                          that Governor Ray had vacated the office of Governor by
                                          visiting a tribe of Indiana and treating with them under
                                          authority from the General Government, but it was voted
                                          down. The case of Leroy Woods in 1857 was different. He
                                          accepted a lucrative office created while he was a member
                                          of the Senate, and for that reason it was decided that he
                                          vacated his seat thereby. It was the rule of parliamentary
                                          law, as expounded by Cushing, that when it was provided
                                          that a person holding a lucrative office was not eligible
                                          to election to an office the ineligibility took effect at
                                          the time of the election, but where it was provided that
                                          such person was ineligible to a seat in the General
                                          Assembly, the disqualification-must exist at the time of
                                          taking his seat, and that the office to which exception is
                                          taken must be held at the time of taking the seat. He
                                          wished the Senate to bear in mind that the case from Chief
                                          Justice? Marshall, quoted by Mr. McDonald, was not in
                                          point. The Superintendent of Fortifications, in that ease,
                                          was an office created by law of Congress, and not a mere
                                          appointment growing out of the temporary exigencies of the
                                          War Department.
                                    Mr. MELLETT contended that, under the Constitution of the
                                          United States, the President had no power to call out the
                                          militia of the United States, but the militia of the
                                          several States and this must be done through the State
                                          Executive, by the President making his requisition for the
                                          State's quota. When turned over by the State,
                                          they became the active militia of which the President was
                                          Commander-in-Chief. In the first stages of their
                                          organization, and before their muster into the United
                                          States service, they were the militia of the State. Hence
                                          it followed that the President could not commission a
                                          citizen of Indiana to enroll the militia therein. That
                                          power belonged solely to the Governor. There was an
                                          express reservation in the Constitution that the Governors
                                          of States should organize the militia of their States and
                                          commission the officers thereof. The militia was not the
                                          people but a class of inhabitants within certain ages. To
                                          ascertain who these were, an enrollment was necessary, and
                                          the persons appointed to do this were not officers, under
                                          the Constitution,or any State law, but simply the agents
                                          of the State Executive, commissioned by him for a specific
                                          purpose, and to discharge a temporary duty. Were Congress
                                          to attempt to take from the State the right to do this, it
                                          would be a palpable violation of Constitution. He read
                                          from the Constitution ot the United States and from Story,
                                          to show that the militia was under the exclusive control
                                          of the State authorities, and was to be organized,
                                          officered and trained under the State laws, and was no
                                          part ot the Federal power until after it was so organized.
                                          The appointments made for the purpose of organizing the
                                          militia, were special appointments for a special duty.  were from the State
                                          and not from the President, and its officers were State
                                          officers, They were merely to enroll the militia, and
                                          acted under the orders of the State officers only. When
                                          the Governor made these appointments, he was not acting as
                                          a United States officer, but as the Executive of the
                                          State. If they were the creatures of the President, then
                                          they held no office, because it was a nullity to exercise
                                          such power in violation of the Constitution. There could
                                          be no disqualification, and in his county no one had
                                          thought of raising the question as to his having lost his
                                          seat in the Senate by taking the appointment of enrolling
                                          commissioner.
                                    
                                          LEGISLATIVE EXPENSES.
                                          Mr. WILLIAMS called up the message of the House,
                                                returning the bill [S. 1] appropriating $25,000 for
                                                the expenses of the General Assembly, with a House
                                                amendment appropriating $75.000.
                                          The amendment was concurred in.
                                          On motion by Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That when the
                                                  Senate adjourn it be until Monday at 2 p.m.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, January 16, 1863.
                              
                              Petitions were presented and referred to the Committee on
                                          Federal Relations, to-wit:
                              By Mr. WOOLLEN, from certain citizens of Johnson county, praying
                                    tor the enforcement, of the 13th article of the
                                    Constitution.
                              By Mr. BURTON, from sundry citizens of Sullivan county, against
                                    voting one dollar or one man for the prosecution of the present
                                    war, characterized as "an infernal Abolition
                                    war."
                              
                                    LEGISLATIVE EXPENSES.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK, from the Committee on Ways and
                                                Means reported back the bill [S. 1]
                                          appropriating $25.000 for Legislative
                                          expenses--recommending its passage with amendments.
                                    $75.000 are appropriated, if necessary, instead of $25,000.
                                          The money not used, as Mr. Niblack explained, would remain
                                          in the Treasury.
                                    The report was concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    STATE PRINTING OFFICE.
                                    Mr. WOOLLEN from the Committee on Benevolent
                                                Institutions reported adversely on a
                                          resolution proposing to establish a pointing office at the
                                          Institution for the Deaf and Dumb.
                                    The report was concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    SALARIES OF COUNTY AUDITORS AND
                                          CLERKS.
                                    Mr. BYERLE offered a resolution, which was rejected,
                                          instructing the Committee on Fees and
                                                Salaries to report as to the reduction of
                                          fees of County Auditors and Clerks.
                              
                              
                                    SECRET POLITICAL SOCIETIES.
                                    Mr. CASON offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, It has been
                                                  asserted by that arch-fiend and traitor, Jeff.
                                                  Davis, in a speech lately made by him at Richmond,
                                                  Va., that the Great West is preparing for
                                                  secession from the East;
                                                  AND WHEREAS, The Grand Jury of one of the United
                                                  States Courts finds that there exists in this
                                                  State a secret political organization, held
                                                  together by the most horrible and wicked oaths,
                                                  and having for its purpose and objects, among
                                                  other things, the assistance and encouragement of
                                                  the Southern Confederacy, and the formation of a
                                                  Northwestern Confederacy, with its ultimate
                                                  annexation to the Southern Confederacy; therefore,
                                                  be it
                                                  Resolved, That a committee of
                                                  five be appointed, with power to send for persons
                                                  and papers, to investigate and inquire whether any
                                                  such political organization does exist in this
                                                  State, with any such designs, or having for its
                                                  objects the resistance of the due and, legal
                                                  enforcement of any of the laws of this State or of
                                                  the United States, or for the overthrow of the.
                                                  legally constituted authorities of this State or
                                                  of the United States, and to further report to
                                                  this House what, if any, legislation is necessary
                                                  to protect the government from the unlawful acts
                                                  of these treasonable associations.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. BROWN moved to lay the resolution on the table.
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded by Messrs. Griffith and
                                          Moorman, and being ordered and taken resulted--yeas 57,
                                          nays 35--as follows :
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett,
                                                  Atkison, Bird, Blocher, Bregan, Brown, Burton,
                                                  Collins, Cook, Donaldson, Ferris, Garvin, Hall,
                                                  Hanna, Harden, of Washington; Hardin, of Perry;
                                                  Harney, Hetfield, Hon, Howard, Howell, Howk,
                                                  Humphreys, Kemp of Dubois; Kemp, of Vigo; Lake,
                                                  Lasselle, Lee, Lemmon, of Harrison; Lemmon of
                                                  Spencer; Mason, McGauchey, Miller, Milroy, Mutz,
                                                  Niblack, O'Brien, of Martin; Osborn,
                                                  Packard, Pendleton, Priest, Puett, Reitz,
                                                  Richardson, Rippey, Roberts, Ryan, Shaffer,
                                                  Shoaff, of Allen; Shoaff, of Jay; Spencer, Veach,
                                                  Waterman, Williams, Wolfe, Woollen,and Mr.
                                                  Speaker--57.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Abbett,
                                                  Anderson, Baker, Budd, Byerle, Cason, Chambers,
                                                  Davis, DeBruler, Forester, Gregg, Gregory,
                                                  Griffith, Hershey, Higgins, Hostetter, Hutchins,
                                                  James, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick, Kilgore, Lamb,
                                                  Leeds. Marshall, Moorman, Newman, Noyes, Perry,
                                                  Pettibone, Robinson, Stone, Tarkington, Van
                                                  Buskirk, and Woodruff--85.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Pending the roll call--
                                    Mr. ATKISON stated that he believed the investigation would
                                          be fruitless, and consequently he should vote
                                          "aye."
                                     Mr. ROBERTS said that if he really thought there was such a
                                          secret organization in existence in the State, he would
                                          vote for the resolution and the committee to investigate.
                                          But the thing was so ridiculous, that he should vote to
                                          lay it on the table.
                                    Mr. KENDRICK said he should vote in favor of the resolution,
                                          as to do otherwise would be to impeach a grand jury of our
                                          country, which he was not prepared to do.
                                    Mr. PACKARD. I, as a member of this House, prefer to impeach
                                          a biased and political grand jury, rather than to impeach
                                          the patriotism [ ] people: I vote
                                          "aye."
                                    So the resolution was laid on the table.
                              
                              
                                    WRITTEN BALLOTS.
                                    Mr. PRIEST offered a resolution in-  strutting the proper
                                          committee to inquire into the expediency of amending the
                                          election law so as to require each voter to write his name
                                          on each ballot.
                                    On motion by Mr. DONALDSON it was laid on the table.
                              
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY
                                    Addressed to appropriate Committees were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, relative to abolishing the office of
                                          Township Assessor.
                                    By Mr. HUMPHREYS, as to the expediency of transferring civil
                                          and criminal business from the Common Pleas to the Circuit
                                          Court, and establishing Probate Courts.
                                    By Mr. VAN BUSKIRK, opposing the separation of the New
                                          England States from the Union.
                                    By Mr. GREGORY, a resolution on the state of the country.
                                    By Mr. HIGGINS, relative to the fees of Northern State Prison
                                          Directors.
                                    By Mr. BARNEY, whether the State has any representative on
                                          the Board of Directors of the Bank of the State.
                                    By Mr. MILROY, as to the passage of a bill punishing the
                                          drugging of liquors as a crime punishable with
                                          imprisonment for not less than ten years.
                              
                              
                                    JOINT RESOLUTIONS
                                    Were introduced, read the first time, and severally passed to
                                          the second reading, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. HANNA, [H. R. No. 6] in the words following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, by the late
                                                  preliminary report on the eighth census of the
                                                  United States, published under the authority of
                                                  the Secretary at the Department of the Interior,
                                                  it appears that the total population of the State
                                                  of Indiana, in 1860, was 1,350,428, and the
                                                  population of Massachusetts was 1,231,006;
                                                  and,
                                                  WHEREAS, It appears that
                                                  Indiana has furnished 102,700 soldiers under the
                                                  various calls of the President for volunteers and
                                                  by draft; and
                                                  WHEREAS, The State of
                                                  Massachusetts, as appears by the annual message of
                                                  his Excellency, Governor Andrews, has furnished
                                                  but 60,000; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The draft was
                                                  rigidly and mercilessly enforced in Indiana, and
                                                  is not yet completed in Massachusetts.
                                                  Therefore,
                                                  Be it resolved by the General
                                                  Assembly of the State of Indiana, That our
                                                  delegation in Congress be instructed to inquire
                                                  into the causes of such discrimination in favor of
                                                  Massachusetts.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    By Mr. O'BRIEN, of Martin. [7] a resolution on the
                                          state of the country.
                                    By Mr LASSELLE, [8] in favor of a cessation of hostilities;
                                          of a National Convention at Louisville on the 4th of July
                                          next; and of a convention of delegates, elected from each
                                          Congressional district of Indiana, looking toward the
                                          restoration of peace and the re-union of the States.
                                    By Mr. CASON,[9] amending the second article of the
                                          Constitution, so as to allow soldiers to vote.
                                    The House then adjourned till 2 o'clock.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. HIGGINS, [32] amending 18th section of act relating to
                                          incorporated cities.
                                    By Mr. ATKISON. [33] amending section 447 of the Practice
                                          Act.
                                    By Mr. SPENCER, [34] prohibiting clerks of the Circuit Court
                                          and Common Pleas Courts from practicing law in the courts
                                          aforesaid.
                                    By Mr. HOSTETTER.[35] amending the 5th section of the act of
                                          1859 relative to township business.
                                    By Mr. GREGG, [38] providing for the registry of voters and
                                          to punish frauds at the ballot-box.
                                    By Mr. TARKINGTON, [37] amending the 22d section of the act
                                          relating to the Indiana University.
                                    By My. GREGORY, [38] to protect: live stock along railroads,
                                          and for the punishment of certain persons therein
                                          named.
                                    By Mr NOYES, [39] amending the acts defining misdemeanors,
                                          approved 1852.
                                    By Mr. BROWN, [40] repealing section 2d of the act amending
                                          section 11 of the act establishing Courts of Common
                                          Pleas--taking jurisdiction in cases of felony from said
                                          Courts.
                                    By Mr. BURTON,[41] providing for the more effectual
                                          enforcement of the article of the Constitution, making
                                          immigration negro immigration of the Constitution and a
                                          felony.
                                    By Mr. ANDERSON, [42] to enforce the 13th article of the
                                          Constitution--hanging every negro, he or she, who came
                                          into the State, till he or she, be dead.
                                    By Mr. PUETT,[43] to secure the rights of married women in
                                          real estate told upon execution.
                                    By Mr. PERRY, [44] amending the 6th section of the Common
                                          Pleas Court act of March 5, 1859.
                                    By Mr. GREGORY, [45] relative to the rights of landlords and
                                          tenants
                                    On motion by Mr. HUTCHINGS, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That when the House
                                                  adjourn it will be till Monday, at 2
                                                  o'clock p.m.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          LEGISLATIVE EXPENSES.
                                          The bill [S. 1] appropriating $75.000 for legislative
                                                expenses, coming up in order--
                                          Mr. LASSELLE made an ineffectual motion to recommit the
                                                bill with instruction; to reduce the amount to
                                                $40.000.
                                          The bill then passed the House by yeas 84, nays 8.
                                    
                                    
                                          BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                                          Mr. ANDERSON submitted the following, and asked that it
                                                be tabled for the present:

                                          

                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, By the House of
                                                  Representatives (the Senate concurring,) that the
                                                  Principal Secretary of the Senate, and the
                                                  Principal Clerk of the House of Representatives,
                                                  be authorized to contract with ARIEL & W.
                                                  H. DRAPIER, reporters, for 1,500 copies of the
                                                  continuation of their Brevier Legislative Reports,
                                                  to contain verbatim reports of the proceedings and
                                                  debates of the present session of the General
                                                  Assembly, on all propositions and questions having
                                                  relation to the state of the Union and the war;
                                                  the said reports to be printed in the Daily State
                                                  Sentinel,or the Daily Indianapolis Journal
                                                  newspaper, and when so printed the said reports to
                                                  be transferred from the columns of such newspaper
                                                  into book form of double column pages-- said
                                                  reports, so printed, to be paper-covered and sent
                                                  to the office of the Secretary of State, and by
                                                  him sent by mail to the several members of the
                                                  General Assembly-- 10 copies to each member--as
                                                  soon as possible after the adjournment of the
                                                  session; Provided said reports shall not cost more
                                                  than two thirds of one cent a page per copy for
                                                  the writing and printing thereof.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. Anderson's motion was agreed to.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                           House bills were read the second time and referred to
                                                appropriate committees, unless otherwise designated,
                                                to-wit:

                                          Mr. Waterman's [27] special meeting of County
                                                Commissioners.
                                          Mr. Lamb's [28] amending the wild same act was
                                                ordered engrossed for the third reading.
                                          Mr. Miller'.s [29] fining-disturbers of
                                                meeting, was ordered engrossed.
                                          Mr. Wolfe's [30] amending the witness act.
                                          Mr. Packard's [31] punishing violations of
                                                injunctions by attachment.

                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    MONDAY, January 19, 1863.
                              
                              The Senate met at 2 o'clock p. m.
                              Mr. WILLIAMS offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting
                                    the Governor to furnish a detailed statement of expenditures
                                    under the $100,000 military contingent fund appropriation.
                              On motion by Mr. McCLURG, it was--
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on the Organization of
                                                  Courts be requested to inquire into the
                                                  expediency of so amending the law of
                                                  "Courts and the practice
                                                  therein," requiring the Judges of the
                                                  Circuit and Common Pleas Courts of this State, to
                                                  deliver their charge to the jury after the
                                                  evidence is concluded, and before the argument of
                                                  counsel is commenced.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    MILITARY EXEMPTION.
                                    Mr. LANDERS offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                          instructing the Judiciary Committee to
                                          report a law, if constitutional, to fix the amount of
                                          exemption from military duty.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, road the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading, viz:
                                    By Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, [12] a bill requiring railroad
                                          companies in the State of Indiana, to keep on hand and
                                          furnish, on reasonable notice being given by persons
                                          offering to ship live stock or other freights over their
                                          railroads, or to or from any place of shipment thereon, a
                                          sufficient number of locomotives freight cars and other
                                          rolling stock to transport such freights without delay,
                                          and making companies failing to furnish transportation,
                                          liable for damages resulting from such failure.
                                    By Mr BROWNE, of Randolph, [13] a bill requiring all
                                          corporations formed, or which may hereafter be formed, for
                                          the purpose of constructing, owning, controlling or
                                          operating a railroad in this State, to elect three fourths
                                          of the number of their Boards of Directors from
                                          stockholders resident in the State, and affixing certain
                                          penalties for non-compliance with the provisions of this
                                          act.
                                    By Mr. LANDERS, [14] a bill to enforce the 13th article of
                                          the Constitution.
                                    By Mr. RAY, [15] a bill authorizing railroad companies to
                                          make extensions or branches in certain cases.
                                    By Mr. MARCH , [16] a bill prescribing the forms of
                                          conveyances of real estate that may be used by Executors,
                                          Administrators, Guardians, Trustees and Commissioners in
                                          certain cases, fixing a fee therefor, and also to repeal
                                          the 547th section of the Practice Act, approved, June 18,
                                          1852.
                                    On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the bill [H. R. 26] fixing the
                                          times of holding courts in the 3d circuit, was read the
                                          first time.
                              
                              
                                    CONTESTED ELECTION GASES.
                                    The argument on the contested election cases was resumed.
                                    Hon. JOSEPH E. McDONALD. The propositions discussed by those
                                          on the opposite side were: 1st, that the Draft
                                          Commissioners were not officers under the meaning of the
                                          Constitution; 2d, if officers, they are militia officers;
                                          and 3d, that if officers, their functions ceased before
                                          the parties were called upon to take their seats in the
                                          Senate. Mr. McDonald contended, 1st, that the
                                          constitutional provision disqualifying was broad enough to
                                          embrace these officers; 2d, that the rules and regulations
                                          in, the act of Congress under which the militia was
                                          enrolled was part of the law. The gentleman from Shelby,
                                          (Mr. Ray) misconceived the decision of Chief Justice
                                          Marshall in the case he quoted in regard to the
                                          Superintendent of Fortifications. The Draft Commissioners
                                          were as much officers as was the Superintendent, and
                                          created in the same way by a law which provides that the
                                          Governors of the several States should enroll the militia
                                          by officers to be appointed by them. The duties in the
                                          regulations under the law are clearly and specifically
                                          defined in the general order issued to carry out the law.
                                          He alluded to the case in the 16th Indiana--when the right
                                          of the Auditing Committee, being
                                          members of the Legislature, to hold, was tested, and
                                          contended that the test in that case was simply the right
                                          of the Legislature to appoint committees to act during a
                                          recess to supervise the expenditure of money appropriated
                                          by it. He read from the de-  cision at length to show
                                          that the duty of the Committee was distinctly set down as
                                          a special duty, and clearly prescribed, It was not so with
                                          the Draft Commissioners--their duty was continuous, and
                                          the office would not have expired if the parties holding
                                          had died or resigned. The case of Gov. Ray in 1826 was not
                                          in point. He was appointed with Gen. Cass Gen. Tipton to
                                          make a treaty with the Indians--to do a specific duty. Is
                                          it a Militia office? If it is, what rank do or did the
                                          gentlemen hold? Military gentlemen are tenacious about
                                          titles. He contended if was not a militia office, for
                                          there was no militia at all until the enrollment was made.
                                          It was an office under the amended law of 1862, and it
                                          could be nothing else. He read from authorities. The
                                          Supreme Court has held that officers in the volunteer
                                          service are not officers of militia, in the case of Kerr
                                          vs. Jones, but he could not see how it helped the argument
                                          of the gentlemen. The Court, in that case, decided that
                                          although Mr. Harrison was commissioned by the Governor, he
                                          became an officer of the Federal Government when his
                                          regiment was mustered. It was the same with the gentlemen.
                                          They were appointed by the Governor to perform duties
                                          under a law of Congress.-- The power of the Governor to
                                          appoint them was derived from the same source that he
                                          derived his power to appoint Col. Harrison and other
                                          volunteer officers in the service of the United States. If
                                          an office, is it a Federal or State office? The duty
                                          performed was to carry out a law of Congress. It will not
                                          be assumed by the Senate that the Governor disregarded the
                                          law of Congress and the regulations in making the draft.
                                          If he did so, the whole proceeding was illegal, and the
                                          four thousand men in service from this State as drafted
                                          men are there illegally. He briefly alluded to the
                                          proposition that an office held at the term of election
                                          which ceases or is resigned before taking a seat in a
                                          legislative body does not disqualify, and contended that
                                          the Constitution of our own State must be the guide here.
                                          The acceptance of one office reverted another it was
                                          clear. In the case of the members from Shelby and from
                                          Henry and perhaps others, incompatible offices were
                                          accepted and held in the interregnum between the sessions.
                                          The link was broken, and it gives the Senatorial places
                                          back to the people. He dwelt on the safeguard intended to
                                          be placed around the legislative department of the
                                          Government to preserve it from Executive
                                          encroachments.
                                    J. H. BAKER Esqr., the contestant of the seat of Mr. Murray,
                                          the sitting member from Elkhart and Lagrange, addressed
                                          the Senate. The point in this case was the acceptance by
                                          Mr. Murray, of the office of Quartermaster in the
                                          volunteer service of the United States, and holding it for
                                          a period of time during the recess of the Senate, In this
                                          case he thought there could be no controversy. The case of
                                          Kerr vs. Jones fitted this case exactly, if it did not
                                          those of Draft Commissioners. He recited the facts. The
                                          decision that Col. Harrison forfeited his office of
                                          Reporter of the decisions of the Supreme Court, covered
                                          this case precisely. The one was a Colonel and the other a
                                          Lieutenant; but both were officers in the United States
                                          service. He quoted extensively from the Decisions and from
                                          the Abridgement of the Debates in Congress, to show the
                                          time at which a person elected to a legislative office was
                                          considered a member. They all agreed that the period was
                                          when the person was sworn in and entered upon the
                                          discharge of the duty. An election merely designates the
                                          person to be qualified. He also cited the case of Van Ness
                                          of New York, who was displaced from his seat in Congress
                                          for accepting and discharging the duties of Major of
                                          Militia in the Territory of Columbia in the time that
                                          elapsed between the first and second sessions of the
                                          Congress to which he had been elected. This case, he
                                          contended, was an exact parallel to that of the gentleman
                                          whose seat he was contesting.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    MONDAY, January 19. 1863.
                              
                              The House met at 2 o'clock p. m.
                              Mr. ROBERTS offered the following, which was adopted:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                WHEREAS The General Assembly
                                                  of the State of Indiana, by an Act approved May 6,
                                                  1861, appropriated the sum of one hundred thousand
                                                  dollars to the "Governor's
                                                  Contingent Fund " and,
                                                WHEREAS, The General Assembly,
                                                  by an Act approved May 31, 1861,
                                                  "appropriated, for incidental expenses of
                                                  the Governor's Office, in addition to
                                                  former appropriations, the sum of fifteen hundred
                                                  dollars;" therefore,
                                                Be it Resolved, That the
                                                  Governor be and is hereby requested, to report to
                                                  this House, at as early a day as practicable, in
                                                  compliance with the provisions of said acts, a
                                                  "detailed statement" of all
                                                  disbursements by him made out of said funds.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              Mr. GRIFFITH offered a resolution, instructing; the
                                          Military Committee to report a bill
                                    refunding to volunteer surgeons who have visited the
                                    battle-fields to Succor Indiana wounded, their expenses in such
                                    service, and equitable compensation.
                              Mr. WOOLLEN moved to make it a resolution of inquiry.
                              The motion was agreed to, and the resolution, as amended, was
                                    adopted.
                              
                                    THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                    Mr. MILLER offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The present
                                                  deplorable civil war tends to unsettle in a
                                                  startling degree, the social and domestic
                                                  relations of the country, and promises no results
                                                  but vice, misery, sorrow and death; it being
                                                  manifest to the civilized world that Union, peace
                                                  and fraternal feeling can never be restored by the
                                                  sword and the 
                                                  torch; but that a continuance of the war under the
                                                  present policy of the Administration must
                                                  eventuate in the utter ruin and decay of our free,
                                                  renowned and mighty nation. Therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That any plan,
                                                  proposition or overture originating with the
                                                  people of any section or State, having for its
                                                  object the restoration of the Union and peace on a
                                                  basis alike equal and just to all the States would
                                                  not be humiliating and dishonorable. but an event
                                                  to be hailed with gladness by every true patriot
                                                  in the land.
                                                  Resolved, That we are willing
                                                  and desirous to receive the seceded States back
                                                  into the Union on a liberal compromise, granting
                                                  to them, ungrudgingly, all their Constitutional
                                                  rights and guarantees, as equal independent
                                                  sovereign States, with such additional safeguards
                                                  as may be necessary to protect them in the
                                                  enjoyment of those rights and guarantees.
                                                  Resolved, That we invite the
                                                  consideration of all true Union men of whatever
                                                  party, and especially the Legislatures of our
                                                  sister States of Illinois, Kentucky, Pennsylvania
                                                  and New York now in session, to this subject, to
                                                  the end that some definite action may be had
                                                  thereon.
                                                  Resolved, That a copy of
                                                  these resolutions, together with the preamble, be
                                                  transmitted by the Clerk of this House to the
                                                  respective Speakers of the aforesaid
                                                  Legislatures.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. HOSTETTER offered a series of resolutions, declaring
                                          against the schemes of traitor sympathizers and their
                                          freedom of treason, justifying military arrests and the
                                          suspension of habeas corpus.
                                    Mr. SHAFFER offered a resolution, treating with contempt any
                                          attempt to commit the Legislature of this State to the
                                          support of the war, by threats or otherwise.
                                    The above resolutions were severally referred to the
                                                Committee on federal
                                          Relations.
                              
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees, were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted, to wit:
                                    By Mr. WOODRUFF, respecting necessary legislation to preserve
                                          life on railroads.
                                    By Mr. CASS, relative to needful legislation for the payment
                                          of soldiers' bounties.
                                    By Mr. HALL, as to reports of Township Assessors to County
                                          Commissioners.
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN for protection of turnpikes.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, whether amendments are not necessary to render
                                          the dog law efficient.
                                    By Mr. JONES, providing for a direct tax for the benefit of
                                          soldiers' widows and families.
                                    By Mr. BYERLE, as to the expediency of organizing the militia
                                          of the State, between the ages of eighteen and
                                          forty-five.
                                    By Mr. HUTCHINGS, as to the further protection of sheep from
                                          dogs.
                                    Mr. WOLFE offered a resolution to print 100 copies of each
                                          bill when ordered to be engrossed, which lies on the table
                                          for one day under the rules.
                              
                              
                                    PAY OF INDIANA SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. BURTON introduced a joint resolution, [10] instructing
                                          our Senators and requesting our Representatives in
                                          Congress to provide, if possible, for the prompt payment
                                          of Indiana soldiers now in the Held, and requiring the
                                          discrepancy in favor of officers to cease, which was read
                                          the first lime and passed to the second rending. It is as
                                          follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, Indiana has been
                                                  represented upon almost every battlefield in the
                                                  present unnatural war; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, Her brave soldiers
                                                  are in no way responsible for the manner in which
                                                  the war is conducted, nor for the purpose for
                                                  which it is waged; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, Numerous complaints
                                                  are being heard from these soldiers, to the effect
                                                  that the Government fails to pay them the small
                                                  pittance which they have so richly earned, while
                                                  the officers over them, as a general thing, have
                                                  been promptly paid, and thus enabled to indulge in
                                                  all manner of luxury, while the poor helpless
                                                  privates are compelled to suffer privation and
                                                  want; and, in consequence of such delinquency on
                                                  the part of the Government, and such discrepancy
                                                  in favor of selfish officers, the families and
                                                  friends of these poor soldiers in many instances
                                                  are caused to suffer and grieve; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, Our Gov'nr
                                                  O. P. Morton, and our President, Abraham Lincoln,
                                                  have seemingly lost all sympathy and regard for
                                                  the white men in the ranks, who are fighting the
                                                  battles of the country, and turned their entire
                                                  attention and given their entire sympathies to the
                                                  negroes of the South, as is evidenced by the fact
                                                  that they regard with apparent indifference the
                                                  great neglect and many complaints of the one,
                                                  while they regard as of the greatest necessity and
                                                  importance the freedom, and amelioration of the
                                                  other; therefore,
                                                  Resolved by the General Assembly
                                                  of the State of Indiana, That in justice to
                                                  all concerned, Indiana asks, yea, demands at the
                                                  hands of the General Government, a prompt and
                                                  speedy payment of all delinquencies to her
                                                  soldiers in the field, and further that the great
                                                  discrepancy in favor of officers over privates
                                                  shall cease.
                                                  Resolved, That the boasted
                                                  patriotism and philanthropy of the present
                                                  Administration both State and National, would be
                                                  less questionable and better appreciated, did they
                                                  but turn their attention and sympathy to the poor
                                                  neglected soldiers in the field, and to their
                                                  suffering families and friends at home, and see
                                                  that their complaints and necessities were
                                                  relieved and satisfied as speedily as possible,
                                                  instead of troubling, themselves concerning the
                                                  slaves of the South, whose freedom is not
                                                  essential to the maintenance of the Union under
                                                  the Constitution, and who are far happier than if
                                                  they were free.
                                                  Resolved, That, to this end,
                                                  we instruct our Senators and request our
                                                  Representatives in Congress, to inquire
                                                  immediately into the cause of this great neglect
                                                  on the part of the General Government, to fix the
                                                  responsibility where it justly and rightly
                                                  belongs, and to provide as speedily as possible,
                                                  by bill, or otherwise, a remedy for the evil
                                                  complained of, that our soldiers henceforth may
                                                  serve the Government, with the full assurance that
                                                  they will receive prompt and regular pay for their
                                                  services.
                                                  Resolved, That a copy of
                                                  these resolutions be sent as soon as convenient to
                                                  our Senators an and Representatives in
                                                  Congress.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. SPENCER, [46] repealing the 18th section of the act
                                          regulating the apportionment of decedent's
                                          estates,
                                    By Mr. KEMP of Dubois, [47] legalizing the acts of deputies
                                          of civil officers who have entered the military service of
                                          the United States.
                                    By Mr. SPENCER, [48] prohibiting Judges of Common Pleas
                                          Courts from 
                                          practicing as attorneys in Inferior Courts.
                                    By Mr. LEMMON of Harrison, [49] amending the 4th find 6th
                                          sections of the act prescribing the duties of
                                          Coroners.
                                    By Mr. KILGORE, [50] requiring Railroad Companies to keep on
                                          hand a sufficient number of locomotives and freight cars
                                          for the transportation of live stock and other freights,
                                          and imposing damages in case of default.
                                    By Mr. REITZ, [51] amendatory of an act regulating sales on
                                          execution.
                                    By Mr. MORGAN, [52] amending sections 4, 5. 8, 9 and 11 of
                                          the law regulating marriages.
                                    By Mr. KILGORE, [53] requiring all railroad corporations to
                                          elect three fourths of their directors from the residents
                                          of the State.
                                    By Mr. LEEDS, [54] authorizing County Treasurers to expose
                                          lands delinquent for taxes at the Auditor's
                                          office.
                                    By Mr. LA3SELLE, L55] amending section 1 of an act exempting
                                          property from execution.
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, [56] relative to road taxes.
                                    By Mr. GARVIN, [57] providing that the value of Government
                                          stamps on legal processes be collected among the
                                          costs.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE, [58] amending section 82 of the practice
                                          act.
                                    By Mr. LEEDS, [59] empowering Sheriffs to expose property on
                                          execution for sale at the doors of Clerks offices.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE. [6O] amending sections 3, 5, 7 and 9, of an
                                          act enforcing the 13th article of the constitution.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    House bills were read the second time and referred to
                                          appropriate committees, to wit:
                                    Mr. Higgin's, [32] amending section 18 of the town
                                          and city act.
                                    Mr. Atkison's, [33] amending section 447 of the
                                          practice act.
                                    Mr. Spencer's, [34] prohibiting clerks from
                                          practicing law in the courts of which they are clerks.
                                    Mr. Hostetter's, [35] amending section 6 of the
                                          township act of 1859.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, January 20, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. MARSHALL presented a petition from sundry citizens of Grant
                                    county, praying for a more rigid enforcement of the 13th article
                                    of the State Constitution, which was read and referred to the
                                          Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                              On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, it was--
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That the Treasurer of
                                                  State be requested to report to the Senate the
                                                  amount of money paid out by him for war purposes
                                                  between the 17th day of April and the 30th day of
                                                  May 1861, and from what fund paid.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    THANKS TO GOV. MORTON.
                                    Mr. MURRAY offered the following: Resolved By the Senate, the
                                          House concurring, that His Excellency, Governor Oliver P.
                                          Morton, is deserving the gratitude of the people of this
                                          State, and as their Representatives we hereby tender him
                                          the thanks of this General Assembly for the promptness and
                                          energy with which he has responded to the call of the
                                          General Government for the organization and equipment of
                                          the volunteer Militia of Indiana, in defence of, and for
                                          the maintenance and preservation of the Union of the
                                          States, and especially for that tender solicitude and care
                                          he has, on all suitable occasions, manifested in
                                          alleviating the sufferings of the sick and wounded
                                          soldiers of the State.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That a certified
                                                  copy of the foregoing Resolution, on the passage
                                                  thereof, be presented to His Excellency, Governor
                                                  Oliver P. Morton, by the Secretary of the
                                                  Senate.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. SHIELDS hoped the resolution would go to a committee. He
                                          was not prepared to endorse all the acts of Governor
                                          Morion until some investigation was had into the financial
                                          operations of the Executive Department. He did not like to
                                          vote against it, for there was much that appeared
                                          commendable in the Governor's acts, but he was
                                          prepared to vote for the resolution if all was struck out
                                          except that portion relating to the sick and wounded.
                                          There were people in Indiana who thought the Governor was
                                          over anxious in organizing troops. The draft had been
                                          rigorously enforced in Indiana, while Massachusetts was
                                          far behind in her volunteer contributions of men. Gov.
                                          Morton should have been as a father, and should have said
                                          to Mr. Lincoln, Indiana has done well, don't
                                          press her too hard.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL could not see any endorsement of the
                                          Governor's financial act in the resolution. If he
                                          could, much as he approved of the course of the Governor,
                                          he would consent to defer it. He moved to amend by
                                          striking out all relating if the organization and
                                          equipment of troops.
                                    Mr. MARCH said if he had been consulted he would have advised
                                          its delay for a short time, but having been introduce he
                                          hoped it would pass. He could not see that its passage
                                          would interfere in the least with the most rigid
                                          scrutiny.
                                    Mr. WOLFE thought the introduction of the resolution
                                          premature, and would move to refer it with the proposed
                                          amendment to the Committee on Military
                                                Affairs. It was due to the Governor that
                                          time be given to investigate his official acts. So far as
                                          it regards the Governor's attention to the sick
                                          and wounded soldiers, my mind was long ago made up that he
                                          was entitled to the thanks of the State; and if that would
                                          satisfy his particular friends, I am ready and willing to
                                          so vote. I have moved to refer the resolutions to the
                                                Committee on Military Affairs,
                                          because I am not ready to vote for the part now proposed
                                          to be stricken out, until the subject has undergone the
                                          proper investigation; and after such investigation, if it
                                          should be found that the Governor has managed the funds
                                          placed in his hands prudently, I will then be prepared to
                                          vote him additional thanks.

                                    

                                    Mr. MURRAY assured the Senate that he introduced the
                                          resolution without consultation with any one, There was no
                                          cat in the meal tub. He simply intended to thank the
                                          Governor for his care of the sick and wounded soldiers,
                                          and nothing more. This was a common ground on which all
                                          could stand. He spoke eloquently of the efforts of
                                          Governor Morton in behalf of the soldiers in the field
                                          from Indiana. He accepted the amendment. (Mr.
                                          Claypool's.)
                                    Mr. COBB would cast no imputation upon Governor Morton. The
                                          resolution was, however, premature. He did not think
                                          Governor Morton would ask the passage of the resolution at
                                          the present time. He was not prepared to say that Governor
                                          Morton had not done his duty to the sick and wounded; but
                                          how many others had done the same thing? The late
                                          Superintendent of Public Instruction lost his life in an
                                          effort to get to the Held to attend to the sick. Others
                                          should be included in a vote of thanks.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS favored the reference, and would vote to endorse
                                          the Governor after investigation was had, if it should be
                                          proper to do so. He was not prepared to Vote on the
                                          resolution now. Governor Morton had probably done his
                                          duty; he was not prepared to say he had not. He was
                                          elected to do his duly, and if he had done it, it was his
                                          part of the contract.
                                    Mr. RAY said that his impressions were that the
                                          Governor's management of military affairs had
                                          bean such as could be commended, but, his opinion was that
                                          if the resolution was cut down, as proposed, it might
                                          imply censure of his conduct. It was better that it should
                                          go to a Committee to be perfected; so that there should be
                                          unanimity in the vote upon it.
                                    Mr. DUNNING, (Mr. Landers in the Chair) regretted that the
                                          resolution had been introduced so soon. He could vote at
                                          any time for a resolution of thanks to the Governor for
                                          his care of the soldiers of Indiana. He felt grateful to
                                          the Governor for that care, but let the investigation be
                                          made. He would not, by his action, cast implied censure of
                                          Governor Morion's military conduct. It would be
                                          better that the resolution be deferred, and if impartial
                                          investigation showed that the Governor had discharged his
                                          duties faith fully, he would be among the first to express
                                          an approval by his vote.
                                    Mr. BROWNE of Randolph, as a political and personal friend of
                                          Governor Morton, would stay that he not only desired but
                                                courted thorough and complete
                                          investigation of his conduct. Had he been consulted he
                                          would not have favored the introduction of the resolution.
                                          This Senate could add nothing to the reputation of
                                          Governor Morton; nor could they tarnish it by the adoption
                                          or rejection of a resolution. That reputation was in the
                                          hands of the people of the United States and he had
                                          nothing to fear from them.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL favored the reference, because it was evident
                                          there was a disposition to not act upon it. Hereafter
                                          occasion might offer when such a resolution would be more
                                          favorably received. He was in favor of carefully
                                          investigating the official conduct of all officers, and if
                                          any one had been guilty of speculation he would by his
                                          vote hold him up to public condemnation, be he political
                                          friend or foe. He had known Governor Morton long, and
                                          believed that while he might be ambitions for a good name
                                          and a high position, he never bowed the knee to filthy
                                          lucre.-- Money was not his God. He did not understand any
                                          gentleman here as casting a reflection upon the integrity
                                          of the Governor. It mattered not what the newspapers would
                                          say. Pass a resolution filly endorsing his acts, or refer
                                          this one until the Senate could unite upon one.
                                    Mr. FERGUSON gave all credit to Governor Morton for his labor
                                          and his care of the sick and wounded. He deserved the
                                          thanks of patriotic people, and would receive them. The
                                          resolution, as amended, thanked the Governor for acts
                                          beyond his duty. When he had filled the requirements of
                                          the law he did not rest, but worked faithfully for the
                                          sick and wounded. The Governor could not object to have
                                          his official acts investigated, and the passage of the
                                          vote of thanks for care to the sick and wounded could not
                                          be construed into censure or into approval of all his
                                          official acts.
                                    On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the motion to refer was laid on the
                                          table--yeas 26, nays 14.
                                    Mr. McCLURG, however he might differ with the Governor on
                                          other subjects, was prepared now to thank him for the
                                          interest he had taken in the sick and wounded. His people
                                          feel grateful to him, and be but represented their feeling
                                          here.
                                    Mr. BROWN of Wells, thought that if he had had control of the
                                          $100,000 appropriated by the last Legislature, he could
                                          have made himself as popular as Governor Morton. If the
                                          thanks were due to the Legislature he would accord it. [ ]
                                          to Governor Morton he would do likewise. But let an
                                          investigation first be had.
                                    Mr. MARCH thought too much time had been taken up in
                                          discussing a matter of this kind. The resolution should
                                          pass at once.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS moved to amend so as to include thanks to all
                                          surgeons, nurses and soldier's aid societies.
                                    Mr. DUNNING thought the introduction of this amendment was
                                          diluting the matter too much. The people, surgeons, nurses
                                          and others, had acted through the Governor, and an
                                          endorsement of the Governor implied an endorsement of all
                                          who co-operated with him. If the Governor  had discharged his duty in
                                          this regard be was entitled to a vote of thanks. There was
                                          no necessity for the amendment--There was no precedent for
                                          it. Whenever it becomes as well known to the Senate that
                                          surgeons and others had discharged their duties as it is
                                          known that Governor Morton has, then it might be proper to
                                          give them a vote of thanks, but, in his opinion, it would
                                          be reducing compliments to a cheap rate.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS defended bis motion, contending that the
                                          surgeons and nurses were as much entitled to thanks as the
                                          Governor, and that is all his amendment designed; but he
                                          would withdraw it to accommodate gentlemen.
                                    Mr. HORD was opposed to the passage of resolutions of eulogy.
                                          He did not see why the Mark Anthonys here should dig up
                                          their dead Caesar for the admiration of the Senate to the
                                          exclusion of every body else. Many of the surgeons and
                                          nurses bad paid money out of their own slender means, and
                                          are they to be excluded? He was willing to give a vote of
                                          thanks to Governor Morton, but be was just as anxious to
                                          give thanks to the poor and humble as to those in power,
                                          and he would renew the motion just withdrawn by the
                                          gentleman from Knox, [Mr. Williams.]
                                    Mr. MELLETT opposed the amendment if for no other reason than
                                          that while many surgeons in the army had done their whole
                                          duty it was well known others had not. It may be so in.
                                          the case of volunteer surgeons and nurses sent. The
                                          amendment thanked all indiscriminately.
                                    Mr. NEW made an ineffectual motion to adjourn.
                                    On motion by Mr. MURRAY the amendment was laid on the
                                          table--yeas 29, nays 11.
                                    The resolution was then adopted by yeas 40, nays 0.
                              
                              
                                    THIRD JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
                                    On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the bill [H. R. 26] fixing the
                                          time of holding courts in the 3d circuit, was read the
                                          second and third time--the rules being suspended for that
                                          purpose--and finally passed by yeas 40, nays 0.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    On motion by Mr. DOWNEY, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Military Committee be
                                                  instructed to inquire into the reason why the
                                                  seventy thousand dollars for 1861, and the same
                                                  amount for 1862, appropriated by the General
                                                  Assembly for the benefit of the Indiana Legion,
                                                  has not been distributed, and what further
                                                  legislation, if any, is necessary to effect such
                                                  distribution, and report by bill or otherwise.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                                          Mr. DOUGLASS offered the Following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, By the Senate (the
                                                  House of Representatives concurring therein,) that
                                                  the principal Secretary of the Senate, and the
                                                  Chief Clerk of the House of Representatives, be
                                                  authorized to contract with ARIEL & W. H.
                                                  DRAPIER, Reporters, for 1,500 copies of the
                                                  continuation of their Brevier Legislative Reports,
                                                  to contain verbatim reports of the proceedings and
                                                  debates of the General Assembly, on all
                                                  propositions and questions having relation to the
                                                  State of the Union and the war; the said reports
                                                  to be printed in the Daily State
                                                  Sentinel or the Daily Indianapolis  Journal newspaper, and transferred
                                                  from the columns of such newspaper into book form
                                                  of double-column pages, and that when so printed,
                                                  the said 1,500 copies of the reports be paper
                                                  covered and delivered to the Secretary of State,
                                                  who shall cause the same to be sent by mail--ten
                                                  copies to each member of the General Assembly--as
                                                  soon as possible after the adjournment of the
                                                  session. Provided: Said reports
                                                  shall not cost more than two thirds of one cent a
                                                  page per copy, for the writing and printing
                                                  thereof.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB, the resolution was referred to a
                                                select committee which the PRESIDENT made to consist
                                                of Messrs. Douglass, Cobb and Beeson.
                                    
                                    
                                          THANKS TO SOLDIERS.
                                          Mr. MARCH offered a concurrent resolution, which was
                                                adopted, tendering the thanks of this General
                                                Assembly to Major General Rosecrans and his brave
                                                officers and men for their courage and endurance at
                                                the battles of Murfreesboro, and that the
                                                resolutions, if consistent with military usage, be
                                                real to the army.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE SCHOOL LAW.
                                          Mr. BERRY offered a resolution, which was adopted, that
                                                the Committee on Education
                                                examine if section 25 of the School Law requires
                                                amendment.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. DOWNEY, [17] a bill to amend the third section
                                                of an act entitled, "An act to amend
                                                sections one and two of an act to provide
                                                compensation to the owners of animals killed or
                                                injured by the cars, locomotives or other carriages
                                                of any railroad company in the State,"
                                                approved March 1, 1853, and to provide the manner of
                                                the service of process, approved March 4, 1859.
                                          By Mr. COBB, [18] a bill to amend section 23 of an act
                                                entitled "An act to provide 1or the
                                                opening, vacating and change of highways,"
                                                approved June 17, 1852.
                                          By Mr. FULLER, [19] a bill to provide that the value of
                                                United States Government Stamp duties required and
                                                used on official process, certificates, bonds,
                                                appeasements, deeds and conveyances, by Sheriffs and
                                                other instruments, shall in all actions be taxed and
                                                collected as other costs in said action.
                                          By Mr. HORD, [20] a bill to amend section 33 of
                                                "An act to provide for the valuation and
                                                assessment of the real and personal
                                                property," approved June 21, 1852.
                                          By Mr. GIFFORD, [21] a bill regulating the fees of
                                                officers, and repealing former acts in relation
                                                thereto.
                                          By Mr. FERGUSON, [22] a bill to amend the 54th section
                                                of chapter 7, enti-  tled "An act
                                                defining misdemeanors and prescribing punishments
                                                therefor," approved June14. 1852.
                                          y Mr. HORD, [23] a bill to amend section 13 of
                                                "An act providing for the election and
                                                qualification of Justices of the Peace."
                                                approved June 18, 1852, as amended March 9,
                                                1861.
                                          By Mr. MARCH, [24] a bill to provide for the execution
                                                of conveyances by County Auditors, for school lands,
                                                where the certificate has not been properly assigned
                                                or the assignment properly acknowledged in certain
                                                cases.
                                          Mr DICKINSON'S bill, [10] amending section 9
                                                of an act of March 9, 1861, amendatory of an act
                                                concerning voluntary associations, approved Feb. 12,
                                                1855, was read the second time and ordered to be
                                                engrossed.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          Senate bills were read the second time and referred to
                                                appropriate committees, to wit:
                                          Mr. Browne of Randolph's, [11] repealing
                                                section 6 of the Practice Act; [12] requiring
                                                railroads to ship freights without delay; and [13]
                                                regulating the election of Directors of
                                                Corporations.
                                          Mr. Lenders', [14] enforcing the 10th Article
                                                of the State Constitution.
                                          Mr. Ray's, [15] railroad extension.
                                          Mr. March's, [16] prescribing forms of
                                                conveyance by executors &c.; and repealing
                                                section 547 of the Practice Act.
                                          The House concurrent resolutions tendering the thanks
                                                of this General Assembly to Governor Seymour, of New
                                                York; were referred to the Committee on
                                                  Federal Relations.

                                          A debate sprang up on the reference of the bill [14] to
                                                prevent the emigration of negroes to the State, in
                                                which Messrs. Claypool, March, Cobb, Landers, Berry,
                                                Browne of Randolph and Mellett took part.
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL cited the opinion of Attorney General
                                                Bates that a negro was a citizen of the United
                                                States, and questioned if the 13th article of the
                                                Constitution of our State was constitutional in view
                                                of that opinion.
                                    
                                    
                                          ELECTION OF STATE OFFICERS.
                                          The House concurrent resolution to go into election for
                                                Prison Directors, north and south, and of State
                                                Printer, on Wednesday, (to-morrow,) at 3
                                                o'clock p.m., was read.
                                          Mr. MARCH moved to amend by striking out the part that
                                                refers to State Printer.
                                          The amendment was rejected and the resolution concurred
                                                in.
                                          A House resolution relative to appointing a committee
                                                to report relative to reprinting the statutes, was
                                                concurred in.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, January 20, 1863.
                              
                              A resolution, by Mr. SHAFFER, proposing to raise a Committee to
                                    apportion the State for Congressional and legislative purposes,
                                    was adopted, after being amended, on Mr DONALDSON'S
                                    motion, by striking out all relative to Senatorial and
                                    Representative purposes.
                              A resolution, authorizing the special committee on
                                          Arbitrary Arrests to employ a clerk was adopted
                                    by yeas 61, nays 26.
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY.
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees, were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, as to the reconstruction of judicial
                                          circuits.
                                    By Mr. BUDD, as to amendments of the 14th and 15th sections
                                          of the common school law.
                                    By Mr. MASON, with reference to further legislation
                                          compelling railroads to properly serve the public.
                                    By Mr. DONALDSON, to report a bill at aa early day for the
                                          apportionment of the State for Senatorial and
                                          Representative purposes.
                                    [Mr. MILROY offered a resolution, which lies on the table for
                                          one day, under the rules, requiring a vote of two-thirds
                                          to pass all resolutions relative to the state of the
                                          country.]
                                    By Mr. WOOLLEN, relative to report as to fees and
                                          salaries.
                                    By Mr. MUTZ, relative to mileage, the distance traveled by
                                          each member.
                                     By Mr. MILLER, into the expediency of postponing the
                                          collection of mortgage to the Sinking Fund, the payment of
                                          interest excepted.

                                    Mr. HIGGINS offered a concurrent resolution, which was
                                          adopted, by yeas 78, nays 6, appointing a committee of
                                          five on the part of each House, to report relative to
                                          re-printing the statutes, the supply for the use of the
                                          State having become exhausted.
                              
                              
                                    SECRET POLITICAL SOCIETIES.
                                    Mr. GREGORY offered a resolution, appointing a special
                                          committee of one from each Congressional District, to
                                          investigate with reference to disloyal secret societies in
                                          Indiana with power to send for persons and papers.
                                    Mr. HARNEY wanted the resolution broad enough to cover the
                                          whole ground. Those with whom he acted had no fear of all
                                          such investigations.
                                    Mr. BROWN did not believe that there were any such societies
                                          in existence. If there were, they certainly were not to be
                                          found in the political party he acted with. He was for
                                          investigation. He therefore moved to refer the resolution
                                          to a select committee of five.
                                    Mr. GIVEN said the Legislature had already provided by law
                                          for bringing persons to justice guilty of disloyal
                                          practice. Any such investigation as was proposed was
                                          therefore unnecessary. He did not believe in the existence
                                          of any such societies as alleged. In Daviess county 400
                                          witnesses had been examined by the Grand  Jury, and no one knew of
                                          such an organization.
                                    Mr. GREGORY said, there were laws which punished illegal
                                          imprisonment, and courts and juries had jurisdiction. Yet
                                          the House had raised a committee to investigate the
                                          question of arbitrary arrests. It was extensively rumored
                                          that such societies did exist, and it was a matter of
                                          justice to the people of the State and to the party
                                          involved by the charge to investigate it. He had read the
                                          other day of a soldier whose life was periled by his own
                                          confession of the existence of such a society. There is
                                          evidently some truth in the allegation on this point.
                                    Mr. ROBERTS asked the gentleman from Warren, (Mr.
                                          Gregory)--who now insisted on full investigation on all
                                          subjects--if he voted for the resolutions for
                                          investigation as to arbitrary arrests, introduced by the
                                          gentleman from Jackson? (Mr. Brown.)
                                    Mr. GREGORY. Perhaps I voted "no" at that
                                          time.
                                    Mr. SPENCER opposed the resolution. It was entirely
                                          unnecessary.
                                    Mr. VAN BUSKIRK urged its adoption. It was a matter of common
                                          rumor that such societies existed--that they were
                                          demoralizing the army--that they opposed the government
                                          and the war. If he were one of the persons affiliated
                                          politically with those lying under these imputations he
                                          would demand the investigation proposed.
                                    Mr. BROWN. Is not the common rumor the gentleman speaks of
                                          confined to the newspapers of the Abolition party?
                                    Mr. VAN BUSKIRK had seen such reports in the papers. Every
                                          member who voted for the gentleman's (Mr. Brown.)
                                          resolution raising a Committee to investigate alleged
                                          causes of arbitrary arrests should certainly vote for this
                                          resolution also-- He argued the necessity for the absolute
                                          safety of the country that the secret matter of these
                                          societies should be ferreted out.
                                    Mr. PRIEST knew the investigation would be fruitless. He had
                                          been mixed up with know-nothingism, and knew that whatever
                                          you asked a member of the order if he knew of it. he
                                          "knew nothing about it." So it will be
                                          in this case. He would not vote to go into a fruitless
                                          investigation, which might cost the State $50,000, If
                                          traitorous societies exist, the investigation will amount
                                          to nothing. Men who have banded together for treasonable
                                          purposes will swear to lies as fast as you bring them up
                                          as witnesses.
                                    Mr ROBERTS. I do not propose, Mr. Speaker, to enter into an
                                          extended examination of the merits of the resolution
                                          offered by the gentleman from Warren. (Mr. Gregory,) but
                                          the debate has suggested a few ideas to my mind, which I
                                          thought I would offer for the consideration of the
                                          House.
                                    The other day, when the gentleman from Boone and Hendricks,
                                          (Mr. Cason.) offered a resolution of a character similar
                                          to this--proposing to investigate the question whether
                                          secret political societies did exist, in this State, or
                                          not--I voted in the negative, and I will give you my
                                          reasons why I did so.
                                    In the first place, Sir, the resolution presented by my
                                          friend from Boone and Hendricks, (Mr. Cason.) and the one
                                          by the venerable gentleman over the way, (Mr. Gregory,)
                                          are precisely of the same character. They assert no fact.
                                          They are both founded on rumor or report The resolution
                                          under consideration simply asserts that it is reported
                                          that certain secret societies exist, having in view
                                          certain purposes. It is a report then, a rumor and not a
                                          fact. Adopt the policy which the friends of this
                                          proposition propose, and where would investigation end?
                                          Sir, our time would be exclusively occupied, until the end
                                          of the session, in pursuing such frivolous investigations,
                                          to the exclusion, of other business of more importance to
                                          the people. Such, Sir, would be the inevitable result.
                                    But, my friend from Decatur, (Mr. Van Buskirk)says that every
                                          member who supported the resolutions of the gentleman from
                                          Jackson. (Mr. Brown,) if he would be consistent should
                                          also support the resolution being considered. I think
                                          otherwise. The difference between the resolutions of the
                                          gentleman from Jackson, (Mr. Brown,) and the one presented
                                          by the gentleman from Warren. (Mr. Gregory.) is very
                                          distinct and clear. Let us see. As I have already stated,
                                          the demand made for a committee of investigation in the
                                          resolution of the gentleman from Warren, is founded on
                                          rumor, or report, while the demand for a committee, as
                                          presented in the resolutions of the gentleman from
                                          Jackson, is founded on facts that are patent to the whole
                                          country.
                                    Is it not well known that the rights of many citizens, of
                                          many loyal men, if you please, have been trampled down by
                                          illegal and arbitrary arrests? Certainly. The resolutions
                                          of the gentleman from Jackson declare those facts in the
                                          most positive terms, and we propose to proceed with the
                                          investigation m view of that understanding. But pot so
                                          with the resolution being sustained by the gentleman from
                                          Decatur, (Mr. Van Buskirk.) No fact is asserted in it.
                                          Sir, until the friends of this resolution discover facts
                                          sufficient to enable them to declare boldly, and in
                                          positive terms, without equivocation, the existence of a
                                          society that has in view the destruction of the
                                          Government, or some other treasonable purpose, I will not
                                          vote to raise a committee to inquire into the matter. To
                                          raise such a committee under existing circumstances, would
                                          be equivalent to branding a large portion of the  people of this
                                          State with disloyalty, which i am not willing to do,
                                          because it would be unjust. The people of this State are
                                          loyal--there no traitors among them, unless they are to be
                                          found in the ranks of the Abolition party.
                                    Mr. KENDRICK (interrupting.) Was the resolution of the
                                          gentleman from Jackson, (Mr. Brown.) based upon rumor, or
                                          upon fact?
                                    Mr. ROBERTS. Upon facts, as the gentleman very well knows.
                                          But I am speaking now of the pending resolution. Mr.
                                          Speaker, I would here take occasion to pay that there is
                                          another tribunal in this State which, with more propriety,
                                          can take cognizance of such things. In this city there is
                                          a Court sitting, the highest known to the laws--the
                                          District Court of the United States--with a Grand Jury
                                          attached to it, whose duty is to investigate such things.
                                          They can an arrest, convict and punish. We, as a
                                          legislative body can do neither. Now, sir, if say friends
                                          from Warren and Decatur know that such societies exist,
                                          why do they not go before the Grand Jury and make
                                          complaint? What do they here? I think, sir, it would look
                                          better in them--it would give us more confidence in their
                                          sincerity--were they to go before the Grand Jury and make
                                          complaint, instead of demanding of this body the
                                          investigation of a rumor. If they believe their own
                                          words--if they believe such societies do exist--I bid
                                          them, in God's name, go, and go quickly, before
                                          that Jury, and make their grievances known. If I believed
                                          them myself, I would go before that tribunal this hour
                                          with a catalogue of the names of those whom I suspected of
                                          possessing a knowledge of such a society, and in the name
                                          of Indiana would demand a thorough, searching
                                          investigation.
                                    But, Mr. Speaker, I do not believe any good can result from
                                          such an investigation as is proposed by the friends of the
                                          pending resolution. Indeed, it might do great harm; in my
                                          opinion it would result in harm. The rebels of the South
                                          would hear of it, and it would build up the hope in them
                                          that they have many allies in the North who are ready to
                                          give them aid and comfort. For this reason alone, I would
                                          be inclined to vote against the resolution. But, sir, I do
                                          insist, aside from this, that if we are to have an
                                          investigation at all, it must be by virtue of a resolution
                                          that asserts a positive fact. Let them so shape their
                                          resolution, and I will give it my support. But this they
                                          will not do. They dare not do it for truth's
                                          sake. Therefore, I must believe that all this is for
                                          "buncombe."
                                    In conclusion Mr. Speaker, allow me to say that with all ray
                                          heart I detest secret political societies. There is
                                          nothing manly about them. They have never accomplished any
                                          good; but, on the contrary, they have done much harm, In a
                                          republic, where free discussion is tolerated, there can be
                                          no necessity for their existence.
                                    In 1854, though but a boy. I opposed the Know Nothing
                                          organization with all my energy; and had not the people
                                          risen up in their might against it, its history would have
                                          been as bloody as the history of the Jacobins of France.
                                          And here, sir, I would remark, that while the gentlemen of
                                          the opposition appear now to be frightened out of their
                                          wits, in contemplating, as I believe, an imaginary
                                          organization, the majority, if not all of them, were
                                          members of the Know Nothing society in 1854. Did they then
                                          propose to investigate Know Nothingism? No, sir. But, on
                                          the contrary, wherever they had control of the Legislative
                                          bodies of the country, they were constantly appointing
                                          "smelling committees" to inquire into
                                          other people's business. What consistency! How
                                          dare they talk of it!
                                    But, I return to the point from which I have digressed. If
                                          there is such a society, as the gentlemen from Warren and
                                          Decatur speak of, I devoutly hope it will be of but short
                                          duration. It should not continue for a day. Every loyal
                                          man should, and will, frown upon it. I care not what name
                                          it may bear--whether it be called Know Nothings, Knights
                                          of the Golden Circle, or anything else--it must and will
                                          be crushed out. Let men who combine to accomplish certain
                                          purposes write their sentiments on the outer walls, that
                                          the people may behold them, and then, if they be good, the
                                          people will approve. But do not go into the dark to make
                                          known your purposes, for Virtue seeks the light of day
                                          that she may be known of all men.
                                    Finally, Mr. Speaker, I repeat, that the friends of this
                                          measure design only to manufacture a little political
                                          capital to save their sinking ship. They see that the
                                          wrath of the people is concentrating upon them, and unless
                                          something is done to avert the impending storm, they will
                                          receive, as they, deserve, the just condemnation of every
                                          loyal citizen. Our prayer is, that when the abolition
                                          craft goes to the bottom, as she inevitably will, that she
                                          may not drag our glorious ship of State after her into the
                                          vortex that she creates in her descent.
                                    Mr. ABBOTT was in favor of an investigation, but before the
                                          judicial tribunals. In his county (Bartholomew) where it
                                          had been said that such societies existed, the matter had
                                          been thoroughly investigated. He had the honor of being
                                          one of the grand jury before whom a cloud of witnesses
                                          were brought who had gone all over the county and asserted
                                          that they knew of their own personal knowledge of the
                                          existence of such societies, and they swore with an
                                          uplifted hand that they knew nothing about it.

                                    

                                    Mr. PACKARD thought the resolution ought to go to the
                                                Committee on Federal Relations,
                                          and he so moved in amendment. He didn't care for
                                          investigation. His party needed no vindication, and
                                          didn't ask it at the hands of the other
                                          party.
                                    Mr. KENDRICK would base the investigation on facts. Not, only
                                          was there the case of the soldier referred to, but
                                          gentlemen not of the Union party, residents of this city,
                                          had been invited to join such a society. He was opposed to
                                          all "submarine" societies.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH favored the adoption of the resolution.
                                    Mr. BROWN accepted the amendment referring the resolution to
                                          the Committee on Federal Relations, and
                                          said that he was opposed to raising any such committee.
                                          The resolution was not founded up-on common rumor, in his
                                          opinion, but upon particular rumor, originating with the
                                          Abolition Indianapolis Journal, the editor of which has
                                          admitted before a grand Jury that he drew upon his
                                          imagination for his facts. He was opposed to insulting the
                                          loyal and great people of the State by investigations
                                          based upon the malignant charges of corrupt and malevolent
                                          Abolition leaders, who themselves were stalking forth in
                                          corruption. The findings of the Indianapolis Journal and
                                          of an Abolition Grand Jury, sworn not to reveal what was
                                          divulged before them, were not matters upon which we would
                                          act in the regard. He challenged gentlemen to bring one
                                          fact, beyond the false sycophantic and malignant
                                          assertions of some man hanging on the skirts of the
                                          Abolition party, to show the existence of disloyal
                                          associations in Indiana. If the committee reported in
                                          favor of the resolution, he would battle against its
                                          adoption till the last day of the session.
                                    On motion of Mr. BUSKIRK. (Mr. Packard in the chair,) the
                                          further consideration of the subject was postponed until 3
                                          p.m.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. BROWN, from a select committee to wait on the Governor,
                                          to ascertain when his Excellency would deliver his annual
                                          message to the General Assembly, submitted a communication
                                          from that functionary declining to act further in the
                                          matter. He had, he conceived, transmitted his message
                                          regularly.
                                    On motion by Mr. BROWN, the report and communication was laid
                                          on the table.
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITION.
                                          Mr. ABBOTT introduced a bill, [61] amending section 33
                                                of the act providing for the valuation and
                                                appraisement of real and personal property,
                                                &c., approved June 1, 1852, which was read
                                                the first time and passed to the second reading.
                                    
                                    
                                          SECRET POLITICAL SOCIETIES.
                                          The special order for 3 o'clock, (Mr.
                                                Gregory's resolution.) coming up--
                                          Mr. BUSKIRK (Mr. Packard in the chair) said: In the
                                                discussion which took place this morning, gentlemen
                                                belonging to the opposition seemed to take it for
                                                granted that there were secret political
                                                organizations in Indiana, and that those
                                                organizations were in some way connected with the
                                                Democratic party.
                                          As to the first point he had no knowledge. He could not
                                                say whether there were secret societies in the State
                                                or not. But as to the second supposition, viz., that
                                                these societies were connected with the Democratic
                                                party, and that that party, was responsible for
                                                them, he could speak emphatically in denial. Every
                                                principle, every instinct of the Democratic party
                                                repudiated any and all association with secret
                                                political associations for any and all purposes.
                                                That party had repudiated and overthrown Know
                                                Nothingism. That party, in its State, county and
                                                township conventions had again and again denounced
                                                such organizations. He was not prepared to say that
                                                there were not such societies or that members of the
                                                Democratic party did not belong to them, but he
                                                vindicated the Democratic party as a party from all
                                                endorsement of or responsibility for them.
                                                Repeatedly, as he had said, had that party denounced
                                                officially such societies. But he knew of no
                                                instance in which the People's. Republican,
                                                Anti Lecompton, or Union parties had in their public
                                                conventions repudiated them.
                                          He doubted whether the subject of the resolution was a
                                                proper matter for legislative action; however, he
                                                would vote to send it to the Committee on
                                                  Federal Relations. He would be plain
                                                with his Republican friends. It was a principle
                                                settled by the Republican majority of the last
                                                Legislature, that the majority should have the right
                                                of forming all committee of investigation.
                                                Therefore, if the committee should report in favor
                                                of the resolution, he should vote against it,
                                                because under Parliamentary law, its mover would
                                                become the chairman thereof. We, the majority on
                                                this floor, have the right to the Chairman and to
                                                manage and control the investigation.
                                          Again, the resolution was not comprehensive enough. He
                                                had reason to believe--nay, he might go a step
                                                further and say he knew--that secret political
                                                associations were being formed in every town ship in
                                                the State by gentlemen who were instructed from the
                                                capital, where the order originated, by persons
                                                standing very high in the Republican party. He
                                                wanted a resolution broad and comprehensive enough
                                                to include these associations these Republican
                                                secret political associations. 

                                          

                                          Mr. VAN BUSKIRK argued in favor of the resolution. He
                                                would favor the most rigid and searching
                                                investigation; he wanted, for the sake of the
                                                country he loved and the Government he cherished,
                                                traitors ferreted out and brought to punishment. Who
                                                was to be harmed, but traitors, by such an
                                                investigation? Gentlemen whose skirts are clear
                                                ought to court the investigation. He, in reply to
                                                the gentleman from Dearborn, (Mr. Roberts,) said
                                                that of his own knowledge he knew of sufficient
                                                facts on which to base the resolution and to demand
                                                the proposed investigation. He quoted extracts from
                                                the Cincinnati Enquirer of the 19th to show that
                                                neither the principles or instincts of the
                                                Democratic party forbade them to organize secret
                                                societies, and that it guardedly admitted their
                                                existence in this State. The course of that party in
                                                prosecuting the investigation of military arrests,
                                                and shunning this investigation was not,
                                                consistent.
                                          Mr. BUSKIRK in reply to the gentleman from Decatur,
                                                (Mr. Van Buskirk,) declared the purpose of the
                                                majority to be to hold every officer, civil and
                                                military, to the strictest accountability for every
                                                illegal arrest which had been made in Indiana.
                                                (Applause.)
                                          Mr. ATKISON would leave the matter to the courts.
                                          Mr. BROWN did not propose to be convicted on Abolition
                                                testimony, as to the designs of the societies
                                                referred to by the Cincinnati Enquirer. He
                                                challenged the proof from Democratic sources, that
                                                such societies existed. He did not propose to stand
                                                here and be catechised concerning rumors set afloat
                                                by Abolition sheets and demagogues. He did not deny
                                                that, as the Enquirer had said, there were societies
                                                of as good and loyal men as ever trod the soil of
                                                this noble State, banded together for mutual
                                                protection; who had resolved that they would spill
                                                the last drop of their heart's blood,
                                                rather than that their friends should be torn from
                                                their midst by arbitrary arrests. Their object was
                                                self-protection not treason nor the demoralization
                                                of the army; for when tyrants and despots invade the
                                                threshold of civil liberty, the people will take the
                                                matter into their own hands to make those tyrants
                                                and cowards bite the dust. These men had declared
                                                that the outrages upon the citizen by this corrupt
                                                and infamous administration must stop. But where was
                                                the proof that these men were associated for the
                                                purpose of overthrowing the Constitution and the
                                                Government ot the country? Where was this proof? You
                                                had none but that furnished by your lying abolition
                                                sheets and your lying abolition demagogues.
                                          Mr. HANNA spoke in bitter denunciation of such secret
                                                political associations as the Know Nothing
                                                organization, to which most of the gentlemen
                                                advocating the resolution had belonged. He paid a
                                                glorious tribute to the unswerving fidelity of the
                                                Democratic party to the Constitution and the Union.
                                                He was for referring the resolution.
                                          Mr. MORGAN argued in favor of the resolution.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, January 21, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. DOUGLASS from the Committee on Education
                                    reported back the joint resolution [S. 1] amending the
                                    Constitution so as to empower cities, towns and townships to
                                    levy special school taxes, recommending its passage.
                              Mr. MARCH explained the joint resolution. The Supreme Court had
                                    decided that no school taxes should be levied and collected save
                                    the State school tax. If the people, at the next election,
                                    approved by their votes the amendments proposed, then any local
                                    community could levy an additional school tax for the benefit of
                                    their own children.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL said that he was opposed to the proposed amendments,
                                    unless some provision was made to stop the present rule, by
                                    which such counties as his (Fayette) were depleted of taxes
                                    raised in their midst to sustain other counties where the taxes
                                    collected were much less than their distributive share.
                              Mr. SHIELDS contended that the principle of general taxation for
                                    school purposes was correct, and that it was reasonable and just
                                    that wealthy counties should help educate the poorer ones. He
                                    wished to perfect our system so that when the volunteer left his
                                    State he could say to his wife, "If I should not come
                                    back, we have schools in which to educate our
                                    children."
                              Mr. MANSFIELD thought that it was the intention of the framers of
                                    our Constitution to provide an equal system of common schools
                                    throughout the whole State by which the poorest localities could
                                    have its schools. The proposed amendments enabled any community
                                    that desired to increase its school facilities to levy a special
                                    tax for that purpose.
                              Mr. JOHNSTON had always been opposed to the system that allowed one
                                    man to be taxed to educate the children of another. He
                                    didn't believe in the doctrine preached so often that
                                    an increase of educational facilities would increase the morals
                                    of community. If a man was a natural born rascal he would
                                    improve in rascality by education. He might stand alone on this
                                    floor in his opinion on this subject, but it had always been his
                                    view of right and justice in that regard, and he had seen no
                                    good reason lately to change it.
                              Mr. CAMPBELL favored the adoption of the resolution.

                              

                              Mr. MARCH claimed that in all well educated communities the
                                    proportion of immorality and crime was much less than in more
                                    ignorant localities, and that the principle was right that all
                                    should be taxed for educational purposes. This propo- did not
                                    touch that clause in the constitution, but gave additional
                                    powers to communities to levy additional taxes that all the
                                    children might be educated.
                              Mr. DUNNING believed that every community ought to take care of all
                                    the children in its midst, and as the proposition enabled
                                    communities to do this he should vote for the joint resolution.
                                    He was a popular sovereignty man, and believed in the doctrine
                                    of people regulating their own affairs in the matter of
                                    education. He combatted the views expressed by the Senator from
                                    Putnam,(Mr. Johnston,) and contended that it was as much the
                                    duty of those who held property to pay taxes for schools as it
                                    was to pay taxes for the support of county poor houses.
                              Mr. DOWNEY. There is an objection to this joint resolution that has
                                    not yet been spoken of. The Constitution of the State requires
                                    the taxation for school purposes to be general. The joint
                                    resolution proposes to give power to localities to make a
                                    specific tax. If you pass this amendment, will the
                                    Representatives from these districts consent to a general tax?
                                    Will you not nullify that provision of the Constitution? He
                                    feared the grant of the power to tax locally would destroy the
                                    system of general and uniform taxation for the purpose of
                                    education throughout the State.
                              Mr. MANSFIELD admitted there was force in the view presented by Mr.
                                    Downey, but he felt that the wants of cities, towns and more
                                    populous districts were such that they required more money for
                                    school purposes than the general law gave them.
                              Mr. RAY. It is too late in the day to deny that education was
                                    essential to the maintenance of popular Government--too late now
                                    to raise arguments against the utility of education In the face
                                    of our own Constitution, which says that "Knowledge and
                                    learning, generally diffused throughout a community, being
                                    essential to the preservation of a free government," it
                                    was the duty of the General Assembly to provide laws on the
                                    subject. He thought the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
                                    Downey's,) objection untenable, for the reason that the
                                    "proposed amendments were intended to correct the
                                    existing provision prohibiting local taxation and if they were
                                    adopted there could be no conflict between their provisions and
                                    those of the Constitution as it was. No country has ever
                                    suffered by education. He thought the cant of the priesthood of
                                    New England had some effect on the ignorant minds, possibly of
                                    the South, and may have tended to produce our present troubles;
                                    but this should lead us to adopt a broader and more liberal
                                    system of education. There was a general discontent when the
                                    Supreme Court decided that cities and towns could not levy a
                                    local tax for school purposes, because such taxation would
                                    conflict with the provisions of the Constitution. The decision
                                    of the Court was legally, right, and this amendment was the
                                    remedy to meet the wants and wishes of the people.
                              Mr. JOHNSTON denied that the Constitution required a tax to be
                                    levied upon the people to educate the children of the State.
                                    Education was a good thing in itself, but not everything. There
                                    would be just as much justice in taxing the people to buy books,
                                    or clothing, or food for children as to raise a fund, by
                                    taxation to provide them with schools. The Constitution states
                                    what shall constitute a school fund. The doctrine that
                                    majorities shall rule in all things would do away with the
                                    necessity of a Constitution. Constitutions were made to protect
                                    minorities--majorities could take care of themselves. Protect
                                    the people and preserve the individuality of the citizen, if you
                                    want the people to love and respect the Government.
                              Mr. LANDERS moved to amend by limiting the provisions to cities and
                                    towns. If the people of cities and towns wanted schools for a
                                    longer period let them have them. In the fanning districts they
                                    had schools when they wanted them, and they got them up in their
                                    own way, In the country the poor children were never excluded.
                                    If you want the amendment to prevail when it goes to the vote of
                                    the people, you had better amend it cow, or it will be voted
                                    down by them.
                              The PRESIDENT, (Mr. Wolfe in the chair,) decided that the joint
                                    resolution having been passed by a previous Legislature it was
                                    not subject to amendment. The only question to be determined was
                                    that of concurrence or non-concurrence.
                              Mr. MARCH, as a member of the Convention which formed the
                                    Constitution, was satisfied that the Convention did not wish or
                                    desire to prevent localities to tax themselves for school
                                    purposes. Had the matter been presented to them directly, they
                                    would have so decided. The decision of the Court, as a legal
                                    proposition, was correct, although unfortunate. He hoped the
                                    joint resolution would pass.
                              The report was concurred in.
                              On motion by Mr. DUNNING the order of business was suspended and
                                    the joint resolution was read the third time, and passed by yeas
                                    36, nays 7.
                              Mr. LANDERS from the Committee on Military
                                          Affairs reported back the bill [S. 6] ceding to
                                    the United States jurisdiction over certain lands in Marion
                                    county for an Arsenal, recommending its passage.

                              

                              On motion by Mr. NEW, the rules were suspended, and the bill read
                                    the third time and passed--yeas 42 nays 0.
                              
                                    GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, from a select committee to act with a
                                          similar committee on the part of the House, to wait upon
                                          the Governor and inquire what his pleasure was in regard
                                          to the delivery of his message, reported that the Governor
                                          informed the committee that, as there was not a quorum
                                          present when his message was sent in before, he now sends
                                          the message and accompanying documents.
                                    On motion by Mr. COBB the message and accompanying documents
                                          were laid on the table.
                                    Mr. DUNNING moved to reconsider the vote just taken--Messrs.
                                          Claypool, Browne of Randolph, McClurg and White speaking
                                          in favor of reconsidering, and Messrs. Cobb and Landers
                                          opposing.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. COBB wished to set himself right in making his motion to
                                          table. It was not from any disrespect to the Governor. He
                                          Intended to deal openly and fairly. He would at all times
                                          fairly state his reasons for his action. It was that the
                                          printing of the documents should go to the State Printer
                                          to be elected. For doing this gentlemen had abused him. He
                                          turned to the journals and read the coarse pursued by the
                                          gentlemen in opposition when Governor Hammond's
                                          message was before the Senate. These same gentlemen at
                                          that time voted to refer the message to the
                                                committee on Printing--a
                                          committee not then raised. It was done to place the
                                          message where it would sleep the sleep that knows no
                                          waking. It was not his intention to lay those documents
                                          aside thus His motion was made simply to wait a few days,
                                          when the documents would be called up and the printing
                                          ordered.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL thought the record was against the argument. He
                                          did not care who did the printing. The majority might
                                          incorporate in the resolution to print, that the work
                                          should be done by the State Printer to be elected this
                                          afternoon. If gentlemen wished to apply the gag they might
                                          do so.
                                    Mr. COBB said he had stated, time and again, that he
                                          disclaimed all intention to take advantage of the
                                          minority.
                                    Mr. WOLFE made an ineffectual motion to lay the motion, to
                                          reconsider on the table--yeas 22, nays 22.
                                    The motion to reconsider was agreed to yeas 24, nays 20.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to print 5,000 copies, 2,000 in the German
                                          language.
                                    On motion by Mr. WOLFE the further consideration of the
                                          subject was postponed until 2 o'clock
                                          to-morrow--yeas 27, nays 17.
                                    
                                          THANKS TO SURGEONS AND NURSES.
                                          Mr. BROWN, of Wells, offered the following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, By the Senate (the
                                                  House concurring,) that, as the Representatives of
                                                  the people of the State, we hereby extend their
                                                  thanks to that noble army of volunteer surgeons
                                                  and nurses, who, with great personal sacrifice to
                                                  themselves, and with no prospect of future
                                                  position, power or aggrandizement accruing to them
                                                  therefrom, have surrendered themselves to the
                                                  mission of alleviating the suffering of
                                                  Indiana's gallant sons, who, by disease
                                                  or the casualties of dread war, have been cast
                                                  upon beds of pain and anguish.
                                                  Resolved, That the foregoing
                                                  resolution be regarded as supplementary to the
                                                  concurrent resolution of the Senate, which was
                                                  passed yesterday returning thanks to his
                                                  Excellency Governor O P. Morton, for his efforts
                                                  in behalf of our sick and wounded soldiers.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. BROWN offered the resolution, because on looking
                                                over the detailed statement from the Governor, he
                                                found a large sum had been paid to these Surgeons.
                                                They doubtless performed their duty and they had
                                                been paid for it. If there were surgeons who went
                                                without pay he would pay them in thanks and in any
                                                other way. He knew from his part of the State money
                                                had been raised to send Surgeons, and there was a
                                                great competition among the Surgeons who should
                                                go.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved to strike out the second
                                                resolution.
                                          Mr. RAY, The resolutions do not go far enough. These
                                                thanking the Governor, the other day, when first
                                                introduced, went too far. Why thank a few doctors
                                                and nurses, many of whom had already been paid the
                                                value of their services, and omit the sanitary
                                                committees, and the thousands of mothers and
                                                daughters who had given their means and their labor
                                                without reward in the same cause?
                                          [A message from the House, inviting the Senate to
                                                repair instanter to the Hall of the House to go into
                                                the elections designated for this afternoon, was
                                                received, and the Senate preceded by the President,
                                                repaired to the Hall of the House. At 5 p.m.
                                                Senators returned to their chamber.]
                                          The second resolution was striken out and the
                                                resolution as amended was adopted by yeas 40, nays
                                                0.
                                          The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate an answer to its
                                                resolution concerning the distribution of the 14th
                                                Indiana Reports.
                                          On motion by Mr. WOLFE the papers in the contested
                                                election cases, except those relating to the seat of
                                                Mr. Murray, were referred to the Committee
                                                  on Elections.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE INSANE.
                                          Mr. BRADLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                                that the Committee on Benevolent
                                                  Institutions inquire into the expediency
                                                of so amending the law as to provide for the
                                                admission into the Asylum and the permanent care of
                                                the incurable insane of the State.
                                    
                              
                        

                        

                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, January 21, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. ROBERTS offered the following, which was adopted:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                WHEREAS, The act of the
                                                  General Assembly "for the organization
                                                  and regulation of the Indiana militia,"
                                                  approved May 11, 1861, appropriated, for the years
                                                  1861 and 1862, out of the revenue of the State,
                                                  the sum of seventy thousand dollars for each year,
                                                  which was set apart by said act as a special fund
                                                  for military purposes; and
                                                WHEREAS, The said act requires
                                                  that three-fourths of said fund shall be
                                                  distributed, pro rata, by the
                                                  Treasurer of State among those counties having an
                                                  active militia in proportion to the number of
                                                  active militia in each county; and,
                                                WHEREAS, The Treasurer of
                                                  State has failed to distribute said fund as
                                                  required by said act, therefore,
                                                Resolved, That the Treasurer of
                                                  State be, and he is hereby requested to inform the
                                                  House, at as early a day as practicable, why he
                                                  has neglected to distribute the said fund as
                                                  required by the act aforesaid.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              Mr. JONES introduced a joint resolution [11 instructing our
                                    Senators and Representatives in Congress to use all efforts to
                                    procure further appropriations in aid of agricultural interests,
                                    which was read the first time and passed to the second
                                    reading.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. PACKARD, [62] repealing section 28, chapter 6, of the
                                          act defining felonies--and defining the crime of
                                          argon.
                                    By Mr. SHOAFF, of Allen, [63] for the protection of sheep,
                                          and the taxation of dogs--repealing former laws.
                                    By Mr. MUTZ, [64] amending section 17 of act regulating
                                          descents, so that a widow who is second wife can hold the
                                          right of dower only in the real estate of her deceased
                                          husband.
                                    By Mr. HIGGINS, [65] for the relief of Alpheus C.
                                          Stanton.
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK, [66] amending act incorporating the Wabash
                                          Navigation Company--enabling said company to raise money
                                          necessary for repairs.
                                    By Mr. WOLFE. [67] amending section 5 of act concerning
                                          interest on money--allowing ten per cent. per annum upon
                                          contract.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, [68] amending section 22 of act defining
                                          misdemeanors--relative to the punishment of public
                                          indecency.
                                    By Mr. ANDERSON, [69] regulating the duties of State
                                          Librarian.
                                    By Mr. JOHNSON, [70] amending section 6 of the divorce
                                          act.
                                    By Mr. ANDERSON, [71] amending section 137 of valuation and
                                          assessment act.
                                    By Mr. BURTON, [72] amending 22d section of act defining
                                          misdemeanors--relative to public indecency.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE, [73] repealing act ascertaining fees and
                                          salaries of County Clerks, Sheriffs, Auditors and
                                          Treasurers.
                              
                              
                                    SECRET POLITICAL SOCIETIES.
                                    Mr. Gregory's resolution relative to secret
                                          societies, pending at adjournment yesterday, coming up in
                                          order--
                                    Mr. NEWMAN supported the resolution. It had been admitted on
                                          this floor that societies of men banded together for
                                          mutual protection, existed. All members of such societies
                                          were traitors. A Grand Jury of the country had found that
                                          there were treasonable associations throughout the State.
                                          The people generally believed that such societies existed.
                                          All these facts were sufficient to demand the
                                          investigation proposed.
                                    Mr. SHOAFF, of Jay, said there was no parallel between the
                                          resolution to raise a committee to investigate arbitrary
                                          arrests and the resolution under discussion. Nor did it
                                          follow that the man who voted for the one must necessarily
                                          vote for the other. In the one instance the resolution was
                                          founded on facts; in the other on common rumor. In his
                                          county such rumors bad been prevalent,and investigations
                                          had been had, and the rumors shown to be groundless. He
                                          deprecated making this a party question. The investigation
                                          proposed would involve a needless expense. No good would
                                          come out of it. He thought it would only serve to embitter
                                          partisan feeling.
                                    Mr BAKER argued that if no such society existed, the cost of
                                          an investigation would be amply repaid by the quieting of
                                          the public mind and good would result from the appointment
                                          of the committee of investigation if it should be revealed
                                          that secret societies existed for the purpose of defeating
                                          the laws of the State and of the General Government. The
                                          expense incurred would be nothing in comparison with the
                                          great benefit to the country if the facts, as people
                                          generally believe them, were ascertained. Democrats in his
                                          part of the State did not deny the existence of such
                                          societies.
                                    Mr. WOLFE argued against the resolution. It certainly cast a
                                          reflection on the Democratic party, but it was based upon
                                          mere suspicion. If gentlemen had facts let them go to the
                                          courts. He did not believe any such societies existed.
                                    Mr. HOSTETTER had reason to know that there was a secret
                                          society of traitorous tendency in existence in his county.
                                          His partner in trade was a life-long Democrat, who had
                                          always voted that ticket except at the last election. He
                                          is well known to the members from Monroe and Putnam.
                                          Lately, within two weeks, this gentleman had been invited
                                          by Democrats to become a member in a secret society
                                          existing in Boone county. A bribe was offered him. The
                                          bribe was to elect him a township trustee at the spring
                                          election. He asked, 
                                          the object of the society. He was answered to suppress the
                                          rebellion, which the abolitionists had failed to do. How
                                          will you do it? 1st. Refuse to pay taxes to support the
                                          Government; 2d. To resist future drafts for the army; 3d.
                                          They had sent a delegate representing five counties in a
                                          convention held in this city the week before to induce the
                                          President to withdraw his emancipation proclamation. It
                                          failed. They said if it failed, they would compel the
                                          majority to pass an ordinance of secession to take Indiana
                                          out of the Union.-- His partner's name was James
                                          M. Springer, and the gentleman who invited him to join the
                                          secret order was James Samuels, township trustee. His
                                          voice should be raised against traitors hero find
                                          everywhere, he was ready to meet them in whatever shape
                                          they might come. He was for "one country, one
                                          Government, or one graveyard." He demanded the
                                          passage of the resolution and the investigation it
                                          proposed.
                                    Mr. PACKARD said if ho understood the object of the
                                          supporters of the resolution, it was to fasten disloyalty
                                          upon , members of the Democratic party. If such disloyal
                                          Democrats could be found, he was ready to assist in
                                          bringing them to punishment. But in his counties there was
                                          not a single Democrat who believed in the existence of
                                          such societies. Governor Wright was the first man who had
                                          asserted their existence, and the people had laughed him
                                          to scorn. As to the term Abolitionist, about which some
                                          gentlemen were so restive, every man who indorsed the
                                          President's infamous emancipation proclamation
                                          and the acts of the present radical Congress, was an
                                          Abolitionist; he knew no other name for him, And as for
                                          the Grand Jury which had made their presentment, alleging
                                          the existence of treasonable societies he denounced it as
                                          a biased and Abolition Grand Jury. He proceeded,
                                          ridiculing the testimony adduced by the gentleman from in
                                          Boone. (Mr. Hostetter.) It came from the vicinity of the
                                          famous Boone County Bank, and he was afraid there was some
                                          fraud in it. The disloyalty of Democrats would be found on
                                          investigation to consist in opposing the acts of the
                                          present Administration. If that was disloyalty, he was
                                          disloyal. If that was treason he was a traitor, and
                                          Abolitionists might make the most of it. For he did, here
                                          and now, denounce the acts of Abraham Lincoln's
                                          Administration. He did, here and now, denounce his
                                          infamous proclamation--his trampling upon the Constitution
                                          and the laws. It was the right of the people to resist
                                          tyrants and usurpers, and, he said, here and now, (he
                                          cared not how many spies and informers were lurking about
                                          this hall) he was ( ready to join any society to protect
                                          their rights and liberties--to maintain the laws, and the
                                          Constitution. He concluded with a glowing eulogy upon the
                                          fidelity of the Democratic party to the Constitution, laws
                                          and liberties of the people.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. CASON introduced joint resolutions 12,13 and 14 passed by
                                          the last Legislature and identical with Senate joint
                                          resolutions 1 and 2, [see page 44 of these Reports]
                                          embracing the following points:
                                    
                                          1st. Amending the second section of the second
                                                article of the Constitution, to enable the
                                                Legislature to define the residence of
                                                voters.
                                          2d. To amend article eight of the Constitution, to
                                                enable cities, towns and townships to levy taxes for
                                                common school purposes.
                                          3d. An additional amendment to the twenty-third
                                                section of the fourth article of the Constitution,
                                                permitting incorporated cities and towns to pass
                                                laws levying special school taxes.
                                    
                                    Which were read the first time and passed to the second
                                          reading.
                                    Mr. BROWN offered the following which was adopted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, One Andrew Wallace,
                                                  now holding the office of President of the Board
                                                  for the Management of the Benevolent Institutions
                                                  of Indiana, has held during the same time and now
                                                  holds the office of Surveyor of "this
                                                  District of Indiana," an office of trust
                                                  and profit; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The said Andrew
                                                  Wallace, in a card published in the Indianapolis
                                                  Daily American, of August 13,
                                                  1362, did admit that he held the office aforesaid,
                                                  in the following words, to-wit: "Editors Evening American: Please
                                                  explain, for the benefit of the ignorant, as to
                                                  passes. I am acting United States Surveyor for
                                                  this District of Indiana, holding my commission
                                                  under his Honor, Secretary S. P. Chase,with power
                                                  to arrest traitors against our Government, and
                                                  issue special permits;" and that he had
                                                  been selling such permits for over one year;
                                                  and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The said Wallace
                                                  admits in said card, so published, that crowds
                                                  went to his office in Indianapolis, and all that
                                                  were worthy to receive them, he sold to, and a
                                                  great many he refused, charging for said passes
                                                  twenty-five cents each to all persons who desired
                                                  to leave the city in pursuit of their business
                                                  avocations, an act derogatory to and in violation
                                                  of the rights of the free people of Indiana;
                                                  and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The Constitution
                                                  expressly provides that "emigration from
                                                  the State shall not be prohibited," and
                                                  the said Wallace, in the exercise of an assumed
                                                  arbitrary power, attempted to prohibit the free
                                                  transmit, or "emigration," of
                                                  the people of Indiana, unless they procured from
                                                  him "free papers," the same that
                                                  are required of the negro slave from, his master;
                                                  and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The Constitution
                                                  expressly declares that no person shall hold more
                                                  than one lucrative office at the same time, except
                                                  as is expressly permitted in that instrument;
                                                  and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The said Andrew
                                                  Wallace stated, before his election to the office
                                                  of President of the Board aforesaid, that he
                                                  wanted the position for its honor, and pledged
                                                  himself not to use it for the advancement of his
                                                  private interest; therefore,
                                                  Be it resolved, That the
                                                  Attorney General of this State be instructed to
                                                  inquire and report to this House whether the said
                                                  Andrew Wallace has not vacated the office of
                                                  President of the Board of Benevolent Institutions,
                                                  by holding at the same time the office of
                                                  "United States Surveyor for this District
                                                  of Indiana."
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          SECRET POLITICAL SOCIETIES.
                                          The House resumed the consideration of Mr.
                                                Gregory's resolution.
                                          Mr. ATKISON was not convinced by all  he had heard during the
                                                discussion this morning, that the investigation
                                                proposed would amount to anything. He conceived, if
                                                such societies existed, the proper place to arraign
                                                the members was in the courts. The Grand Juries of
                                                the country could inquire concerning all such
                                                matters, and when facts were found to warrant it,
                                                make presentments. On this floor were members urging
                                                the resolution who had been themselves members ot a
                                                secret political society--the Know Nothing order.
                                                The mover of the resolution himself had been a
                                                member of such secret political society, He, if the
                                                resolution were adopted, would be chairman of the
                                                proposed committee. That being the ease, we could
                                                well understand what sort of a committee we would
                                                have, and what sort of investigation, so far as
                                                Democrats, who had always been opposed to secret
                                                political societies were concerned. He was not
                                                willing, as the resolution proposed, to impeach the
                                                loyalty of so great a number of his fellow-citizens.
                                                The resolution was one for buncombe.
                                          Mr. CASON insisted upon the existence of secret
                                                political societies. A Grand Jury of Indiana had
                                                said so.
                                          Mr. BROWN (interrupting,) asked the gentleman if that
                                                Grand Jury had not perjured themselves, first, by
                                                divulging acts they were sworn to conceal; second,
                                                by presenting 15,000 citizens of Indiana as traitors
                                                and than failing to find a bill upon which any one
                                                of them was convicted?
                                          Mr. CASON. Every lawyer in the State knows that they
                                                did not. They did not, as the gentleman said
                                                yesterday with defence to the editor of the
                                                Indianapolis Journal,
                                                "draw upon their imagination for their
                                                facts." I will ask the gentleman how he
                                                knew that the matter was as stated in regard to that
                                                editor?
                                          Mr. BROWN. I said that the editor of the Journal did,
                                                upon his oath, admit before a Grand Jury that he
                                                drew upon his imagination for the matter of his
                                                editorials.
                                          Mr. CASON. Before what Grand Jury?
                                          Mr. BROWN. Before the Grand Jury of Sullivan county.
                                                That editor had stated in his paper that he knew of
                                                a plot by citizens of that county to assassinate
                                                Governor Morton by placing obstructions on a
                                                railroad track. When summoned before the Grand Jury
                                                of that county he declared upon oath that he knew
                                                nothing of the matter whatever; nothing of such a
                                                conspiracy, although he had stated in his paper that
                                                be did; and that so far as he had said anything
                                                concerning it he had drawn upon his imagination for
                                                the facts.
                                          Mr. CASON. How do you know this?
                                          Mr. BROWN. I can prove it by members on this floor.
                                          Mr. CASON. Were they members of the Grand Jury?
                                          Mr. BROWN. I do not say whether they were or not.
                                          Mr. CASON. If they were, according to your own
                                                argument, they have perjured themselves, divulging
                                                what they should not have divulged. If they were
                                                not, they received their information from perjurers.
                                                He resisted the idea that the majority of this House
                                                should have the chairman and majority of the
                                                committee proposed by the resolution. What did they
                                                desire this for, if not for the purpose of stifling
                                                investigation? He appealed to the majority, as
                                                patriots, as statesmen of Indiana, not to resort
                                                either to tyrannical, action or subterfuges to
                                                defeat this investigation, demanded by every loyal
                                                man in the State.
                                          Mr. BUSKIRK explained his position yesterday as to the
                                                formation of the committee. If Mr.
                                                Gregory's resolution was adopted, by
                                                Parliamentary law he would be chairman and would be
                                                entitled to have a majority of the committee from
                                                his owns party. It was competent for the majority to
                                                refer, and dispose of the question, till some one of
                                                the majority should move for an investigation, be
                                                Chairman and secure control of the Committee. Hence
                                                he desired the reference to the Committee
                                                  on Federal Relations.
                                    
                                    
                                          JOINT CONVENTION.
                                          Three o'clock having arrived, the Senate
                                                preceded by the President, entered the Hall.
                                          The PRESIDENT of the Senate called the Convention to
                                                order and announced that the General Assembly were
                                                met in Joint Convention, pursuant to a concurrent
                                                resolution of both Houses thereof, for the purpose
                                                of electing a State Printer, three directors for the
                                                State Prison South and three for the State Prison
                                                North.
                                          On motion by Representative BROWN, the Convention
                                                proceeded to elect
                                    
                                    
                                          PRISON DIRECTORS, SOUTH.
                                          Representative NIBLACK nominated George E. Greene, of
                                                Knox County for the term of four years.
                                          Senator RAY nominated Samuel Donaldson, of Shelby, for
                                                the term of four years.
                                          Representative MOORMAN nominated A. S. Crothers and
                                                Samuel M. Mitchell.
                                          Messrs. Greene and Donaldson received 81 votes, Messrs.
                                                Crothers and Mitchell 54.
                                          The PRESIDENT declared Messrs. Donelson and Greene duly
                                                elected.
                                          Representative HOWARD nominated John F. Reed of Clarke
                                                for the term of two years.
                                          Senator MARSH nominated Wm. Brotherton, of
                                                Delaware.
                                          Mr. Reed received 81 votes, Mr. Brotherton 54.
                                          Mr. Reed was declared elected.
                                    

                                    


                                    
                                          PRISON DIRECTORS, NORTH.
                                          By consent, the Convention agreed to vote for the three
                                                Directors at one ballot.
                                          Senator HOAGLAND nominated Thos. Tigar, of Allen.
                                          Representative WOLFE nominated Jas. H. Swaar, of
                                                Owen.
                                          Representative MILLER nominated R. S. Hastings, of
                                                Tippecanoe.
                                          Representative MOORMAN nominated Chancey B. Blair, of
                                                Laporte, Hugh Hanna, of Wabash, and Jonas Votaw, of
                                                Jay.
                                          Mr. Swaar received 83 votes, Mr. Hastings 81, Mr. Tigar
                                                80, Mr. Blair 56, Mr. Votaw 56, and Mr. Hanna
                                                55.
                                          Messrs, Swaar, Hastings and Tigar were declared duly
                                                elected for four years.
                                    
                                    
                                          STATE PRINTER.
                                          Senator BROWNE, of Wells, nominated Joseph J. Bingham,
                                                of Marion.
                                          Senator BEESON nominated Berry R. Sulgrove, of
                                                Marion.
                                          Mr. Bingham was declared elected.
                                          The PRESIDENT. The business for which we met
                                                'having been transacted, I pronounce this
                                                Convention adjourned sine die.
                                          When Senators had retired--
                                          Mr. CASON resumed. No one who had listened to the
                                                discussion here could avoid the conclusion that such
                                                secret political organizations do exist: and have
                                                not all these gentlemen who proclaim that they were
                                                on Grand Juries and called hundreds of witnesses and
                                                foiling no evidence of such secret organizations,
                                                proven themselves by the logic of their party
                                                friends to be perjured rascals? We have other facts.
                                                Prominent Democrats have declared their existence.
                                                Judge Hughes has done it. We have seen and heard
                                                enough ourselves to convince us of their existence,
                                                and I shall assume their existence as
                                                incontrovertible. If they exist; if their design is
                                                to thwart the operations of the government, or other
                                                illegal purposes, have we not a right to investigate
                                                them? Shall we not investigate whether they are
                                                criminal in their aims? But the Democrats say the
                                                resolution charges the Democracy with belonging to
                                                treasonable societies. The resolution makes no
                                                charge that that party as a party composes this
                                                secret organization. It strikes against the
                                                societies themselves, not against parties. Why are
                                                gentlemen so delicate? They who press investigation
                                                on other questions? What is it, except that they
                                                fear it may "disclose that prominent men of
                                                their party, men whom they have nominated for
                                                office, may be implicated? Will they attempt to
                                                stifle investigation for partizan success? Are these
                                                men, who have piously and plaintively read lectures
                                                to the minority about constitutional oaths, and
                                                duties, ready to stifle investigation for partizan
                                                ends? He reviewed the course of the majority, in
                                                their attempt to override the minority, and their
                                                constant denunciations of the Government, while they
                                                were prating about the rights of traitors.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, January 22, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. DOWNEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                          Judiciary Committee inquire into the
                                    expediency of authorizing a competent officer in the several
                                    counties to grant injunctions and writs of habeas corpus.
                              

                              
                                    COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.
                                    The following resolutions heretofore offered by Mr. BROWNE,
                                          of Randolph, [see page 36 of these Reports] were on his
                                          motion taken up:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Be it Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on the Judiciary be
                                                  and is hereby instructed, at the earliest
                                                  practicable moment, to prepare and report to the
                                                  Senate a bill or bills embodying substantially the
                                                  following:
                                                  
                                                  1st. Abolishing the Court of Common Pleas,
                                                  and the office of District Prosecuting
                                                  Attorney.
                                                  2d. Increasing the number of Judicial
                                                  Circuits to not less than twenty, nor more than
                                                  twenty-four and providing for three terms of the
                                                  Circuit Court each year.
                                                  3d. Transferring the civil business that may
                                                  be pending in the Common Pleas Courts at the time
                                                  said act may go into effect, to the Circuit
                                                  Courts.
                                                  4th. Giving to Justices of the Peace
                                                  exclusive original jurisdiction of all
                                                  misdemeanors, the punishment of which is by fine
                                                  only; extending the jurisdiction of the Circuit
                                                  Court and the Grand Jury to misdemeanors, the
                                                  punishment of which may be imprisonment in the
                                                  county jail; and providing further, that whenever
                                                  a Justice of the Peace shall be of opinion, upon
                                                  the investigation of a misdemeanor that adequate
                                                  punishment would exceed his jurisdiction, he shall
                                                  require the accused to enter into a recognizance
                                                  for his appearance to answer the charge at the
                                                  next ensuing term of the proper Circuit Court, or
                                                  in default thereof commit him to the County Jail;
                                                  and in such case the Circuit Court shall proceed
                                                  to try said cause upon the affidavit filed before
                                                  the Justice. Also, making it the duty of the
                                                  Prosecuting Attorney to prosecute such cases in
                                                  the Circuit Court, and allowing him therefor such
                                                  fees as are allowed by law in other cases.
                                                  5th. Giving the Circuit Courts jurisdiction
                                                  in cases of applications to sell land by
                                                  Guardians, Assignees, Executors and
                                                  Administrators, actions for partition, and in all
                                                  cases of Probates that may require
                                                  litigation.
                                                  6th. Requiring Guardians, Assignees,
                                                  Executors and Administrators to make their
                                                  reports, accounts current and final statements to
                                                  the Clerk in vacation.
                                                  7th. Providing that in all cases of final
                                                  settlement, or where an allowance for service may
                                                  be demanded, in any report or account current, the
                                                  Clerk shall receive and docket the same, in a
                                                  proper record to be kept for such purpose, and
                                                  shall present the same for inspection and
                                                  allowance to the Circuit Judge, on the first day
                                                  of the next ensuing term of the Circuit
                                                  Court.
                                                  8th. That in all cases, any person
                                                  interested may appear before the Clerk in vacation
                                                  of the Court, in term time, and file his written
                                                  objections and exceptions to any report, account
                                                  current, or final settlement; and upon the filing
                                                  thereof the cause shall be properly docketed, and
                                                  after the service of process upon the adverse
                                                  party, as in other civil causes, it shall stand
                                                  for trial. Upon the hearing thereof, the Court
                                                  shall make such order respecting the controversy
                                                  as the law of the case may require, and shall  award the costs
                                                  against the losing party, or divide them between
                                                  the parties, in such manner as to the Court may
                                                  seem equitable and just.
                                                  9th. Providing such additional compensation
                                                  for the Clerk as may be reasonable, in view of the
                                                  in-creased labor that may be imposed upon
                                                  him.
                                                  10th. Providing that the act shall take
                                                  effect and be in force from and after the 1st day
                                                  of November, A. D. 1864.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. COBB moved to amend so as to direct the committee to
                                          inquire into the expediency of reporting a bill on the
                                          subject.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, said his object was to get an
                                          expression of the Senate on the subject. He was not at all
                                          tenacious about the resolution being imperative, nor did
                                          he care whether it went to the Committee on the
                                                Judiciary or to the Committee on
                                                the Organization of Courts. The merits of
                                          the subject could be as well discussed on the resolutions
                                          as they could be if a bill was prepared. If the expression
                                          was favorable he would assist in preparing a bill.
                                    The amendment was adopted.
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to amend so as to instruct the committee to
                                          inquire into the expediency of abolishing the Grand Jury
                                          system. He said that in old English times the introduction
                                          of the grand jury system was an advance upon civilization.
                                          But in this day no such star chambers were necessary,
                                          where spiteful people could go before an inquisition and
                                          blacken the characters of innocent men. They should fee
                                          abolished and public investigation in open court
                                          instituted instead. Their abolition would save much money
                                          to the State.
                                    Mr. RAY had always thought that all attempts to change the
                                          grand jury system were but steps downward. Its efficiency
                                          had been damaged already. It had been so emasculated as to
                                          embrace within its jurisdiction only that class of crimes
                                          known as felonies. He spoke of the general in-competency
                                          of Common Pleas Judges and Prosecutors to administer
                                          justice. Under the present duplicate system of criminal
                                          jurisdiction, the majority of the prosecutors have been
                                          taken from the constitutional side of the bar--those who
                                          become lawyers by the easy mode permitted by our
                                          Constitution. A change which would abolish the Common
                                          Pleas Courts would prove to be an economical move. He
                                          referred to the practical working of the system by which
                                          the settlement of estates and the whole probate business
                                          was left to the judgement and attention of the lawyers
                                          interested, and by which the prosecuting business was
                                          frequently subbed out to deputies in the counties for a
                                          consideration by the Prosecutor, who remains in his own
                                          county, thus encouraging corruption in office. He had made
                                          a calculation and was satisfied that thirty-three per
                                          cent. would be saved in salaries and court expenses to the
                                          people of the State by abolishing this court. As to the
                                          probate business he cared very little whether this were
                                          left with the Clerk or a local surrogate court. The
                                          settlement of conflicting jurisdiction between different
                                          Courts had cost the State more than the whole grand jury
                                          system. The changes proposed would raise the dignity of
                                          the Court, But little respect was now paid to our courts
                                          because their administration was placed in the hands of
                                          incompetent officers. As to the grand juries he claimed
                                          that society had no protection save in such juries, for
                                          when it became the duty of individuals to publicly stir up
                                          strife in the community crime would necessarily go
                                          unpunished. This was proved by the general neglect of
                                          prosecutors to file information in counties where the
                                          local prosecutor did not reside. The abuses of the Common
                                          Pleas system were the legitimate result of the degradation
                                          of our judicial system. With but one Court in which all
                                          criminal and civil business was settled, competent Judges
                                          and Prosecutors could be had, justice would be more
                                          speedily administered and the expense to the people
                                          lessened.
                                    Mr. WOLFE was opposed to the abolition of the Grand Jury
                                          system, but would rather return to the old system that
                                          gave Grand Juries jurisdiction of all misdemeanors where
                                          the punishment was at least imprisonment. The entire
                                          system of simplification of pleadings and practice had
                                          done more to complicate the practice in Courts than
                                          anything else. From 1816 to 1852 we had but eight volumes
                                          of Supreme Court reports; since 1852 there had been
                                          published sixteen volumes of the same reports, and two
                                          more were ready for publication. The changes proposed
                                          could work no benefit to the judicial system. As to the
                                          economical question, he had made an estimate two years
                                          since, when similar propositions were presented, and found
                                          that the change would cost much more. By no system of
                                          jurisdiction can the amount of business required to be
                                          performed by the Courts be lessened. If the Common Pleas
                                          Court should be abolished, its business though transferred
                                          to another Court, would not be lessened. If five cases in
                                          one court required five days of jury service, and five
                                          cases in another court required five days of jury service,
                                          the ten cases if thrown into one court, would occupy a
                                          jury just ten days, and no more time or pay would be saved
                                          than if there had been no transfer. The increase of
                                          circuits would require nearly the same amount to pay the
                                          salaries of additional Judges and Prosecutors that would
                                          be saved by the abolition of the Common Pleas Court. While
                                          he admitted that there were objectionable features in the
                                          common pleas system, it was no good reason that it should
                                          be abolished. Let the objections be removed without
                                          abolishing the Court. The system, as first introduced, was
                                          better than the present one. He  would favor a change that
                                          would place the criminal business in Circuit Courts, with
                                          but one Prosecutor for each Circuit.
                                    Mr. NEW offered the following-additional instructions to the
                                          committee: "That the expediency be inquired into
                                          of abolishing the criminal jurisdiction of the Courts of
                                          Common Pleas, and restoring to the Grand Juries
                                          jurisdiction of all misdemeanors, concurrent with Justices
                                          of the Peace, and requiring the Circuit Court to hold
                                          criminal terms in any county upon the request of the
                                          County Commissioners of such county."
                                    Mr. MELLETT said the propositions involved no substantial
                                          change in our judicial system. We now had two courts of
                                          concurrent jurisdiction, and parties had choice of either
                                          in which to bring actions. It was no advantage to the
                                          people to have one court sit six weeks and then adjourn to
                                          be immediately followed by a four weeks session of another
                                          court having nearly the same jurisdiction. They could not
                                          understand why a ten weeks term of a single court would
                                          not answer just as well. He alluded to the manner in which
                                          criminal trials were put through Common Pleas Courts by
                                          incompetent officers, and claimed that such administration
                                          of justice was the result of the system. There must be
                                          clashings of jurisdiction. If the proposed change was made
                                          the people would find they had but one court to go to,
                                          with one judge, and less inconvenience would follow. While
                                          the change would not be a radical one. it was certain to
                                          prove advantageous. He was opposed to abolishing the Grand
                                          Jury system. Under the common Pleas system of bringing
                                          criminals into court upon information filed by the
                                          Prosecuting Attorney, favoritism and prejudices frequently
                                          controlled prosecutions. He would give most of the
                                          misdemeanors to grand juries. Common Pleas prosecutors now
                                          employed deputies to file informations, and under that
                                          rule the guilty often went unpunished. If the Circuit
                                          Courts were allowed to hold three terms a year and the
                                          Common Pleas Court were abolished, a uniform system of
                                          judicature would exist throughout the State.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, supposed the mover of the
                                          proposition to abolish grand juries, was willing to
                                          abolish all courts except the Court of Conciliation. He
                                          (Mr. B.) had great respect for the old system of practice
                                          and thought the new code had done but little good. Instead
                                          of confiding inquiries as to misdemeanors to twelve men,
                                          the code had placed this power in the hands of one man,
                                          who, as Prosecuting Attorney, could not judge impartially
                                          of such matters. Grand juries now involved as much expense
                                          as under the old system when they had jurisdiction of all
                                          classes of misdemeanors. They sit as long, juries were not
                                          star chambers. No twelve men would present any one from
                                          malice, nor would they fail to present any one from base
                                          considerations. Under the present system more men were
                                          brought into court charged with crimes that could not be
                                          sustained, than under the old system. He believed in
                                          restoring to grand juries all classes of cases where the
                                          punishment was imprisonment in the county jail. The
                                          judicial system had been so simplified that neither the
                                          people nor the bar respected it. He favored abolishing the
                                          Common Pleas Court because we had two Courts of similar
                                          jurisdiction, which did not facilitate justice. Where the
                                          terms of the two courts followed one another it was the
                                          same as one court with different judges. The Common Pleas
                                          was an expensive court. The jury of that court was an
                                          additional expense that would be lessened by the abolition
                                          of the court. The increase of Circuit Judges and the
                                          abolition of Common Pleas Judges would save $23,000 to the
                                          State; saving in bailiffs fees would be $15,000 and in the
                                          salaries of Prosecutors $5,500. In addition there would be
                                          a saving, of a considerable amount in incidental expenses,
                                          and the whole saving would not be less than $60,000. A
                                          surrogate system would, perhaps, increase the expenses
                                          some. An increase of the number of courts and officers
                                          must necessarily diminish the pay, and as a consequence an
                                          inferior order of ability was upon our benches and in the
                                          prosecutor's offices.
                                    Mr. MARCH said when he introduced his proposition he had not
                                          anticipated such a buzz. He did not know whether to treat
                                          as ludicrous or as serious this hifalutin talk about the
                                          "dignity of the bar." The proposition
                                          was to tear down the whole judicial system except the
                                          Grand Jury. He believed that any investigation to be just,
                                          should be public. The grand jury system retained the odors
                                          of the tyrannical systems of old. It was too late in the
                                          day to talk about the practicability of the present system
                                          of law practice. The old system was the result of a
                                          barbarous age, piled up in perfect cobwebs of form and
                                          technicalities, until justice was clouded from view. The
                                          present system of administering law had lessened the
                                          expenses one half. Before, litigants had to go into courts
                                          of equity or law, and if they got into the wrong door they
                                          got kicked out with a bill of from $500 to $1,000 of
                                          costs, with an exclamation from the court, "this
                                          is the temple of justice." Besides this there
                                          were nine different forms of action, and if the litigant
                                          failed in any one, he had to pay the cost and commence
                                          anew. Now there was no distinctions between forms and
                                          actions. The old systems of pleading and practice had
                                          perished and could never be restored. He said that under
                                          the old system of procuring certificates to practice law,
                                          an oyster supper and some good old Bourbon had more to do
                                          with it  than
                                          Littleton on Coke. No amount of sheepskin or diplomas
                                          would ever make a lawyer. He must be a man--not one who
                                          was bent on taking little advantages on all occasions, but
                                          one who could be a peacemaker, when necessary. As to the
                                          increase of Supreme Court decisions, it was sufficient
                                          answer to say that an increase of population increased the
                                          business of the State. It had been said that litigation
                                          had been multiplied, but the decisions of the Supreme
                                          Court showed that slander suits had been in a measure done
                                          away with, through the influence of courts, of
                                          conciliation, and under the new rules of practice. He knew
                                          of no deterioration in ability of judges in his portion of
                                          the State. In conclusion, he would say that he was in
                                          favor of the present system, and for perfecting it
                                          wherever defective, and for preparing something to take
                                          the place of the Common Pleas Courts, if something better
                                          could be found.
                                    
                                          AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                          On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the subject under
                                                consideration was informally laid aside to enable
                                                Mr. Murray to address the Senate in behalf of his
                                                claim to retain his seat and in opposition to the
                                                claim of the contestant Mr. Baker.
                                          Mr. MURRAY gave a statement of his case reviewing the
                                                arguments of the gentlemen who had spoken for the
                                                contestants. His case was different from some
                                                others. He was elected, as Senator from Elkhart and
                                                Lagrange in 1860. He attended as such Senator the
                                                regular and special sessions. He accepted the
                                                appointment of Regimental Quartermaster in the 48th
                                                regiment when that regiment was raised and served in
                                                that capacity nine months. His opponent (Mr. Baker)
                                                was elected on the plea with his people, that he
                                                (Mr. Murray) had vacated his seat by accepting an
                                                incompatible office. Mr. Baker who claims the seat
                                                held a lucrative office at the time he was elected,
                                                and only resigned it after the election returns were
                                                in. These were the main points in the case. Mr.
                                                Murray asked, that if he was excluded, that his
                                                opponent be excluded also. Under the extraordinary
                                                circumstances surrounding the country, where so many
                                                had got mixed up with military affairs through the
                                                best and purest motives, he did not think a strict
                                                construction should be put upon the constitutional
                                                disqualification. Certainly an arbitrary
                                                construction should not be put upon that clause or
                                                the decisions of the court under it.
                                          On motion by Mr. WOLFE, the papers in this contested
                                                case were referred back to the Committee on
                                                  Elections.
                                          On motion by Mr. LANDERS, the Senator from Bartholomew
                                                (Mr. Hord,) was added to the Military
                                                  Committee.
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, January 22, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. CASON resumed his speech on Mr. Gregory's resolution
                                    relative to secret political societies. He reviewed the
                                    arguments presented by the majority, showing that their success
                                    was due to the absence of 60,000 soldiers in the army; and when
                                    they come home there would be a day of retribution for those men
                                    who denounce the Administration.
                              Mr. BROWN. Mr. Speaker, I think I have a right to make a word of
                                    explanation. The gentleman from Boone and Hendricks, (Mr. Cason)
                                    has charged upon me that in my remarks here I have spoken as
                                    though I thought that white soldiers in the army of the United
                                    States were good enough to be shot down by secessionists, whilst
                                    the negroes of the South should be employed in raising the
                                    products of the soil to sustain the armies of the rebellion and
                                    construct entrenchments for them. The gentleman is mistaken. I
                                    think white soldiers too good to be shot down by anybody; and I
                                    think all negroes are mean enough to do the bidding of any white
                                    man; and that is what I said. Let me say, further, that while I
                                    oppose the proclamation of the President of the United States, I
                                    do so because it imposes burdens only upon the loyal people, and
                                    upon them alone. The objection which I make to the proclamation
                                    affecting the progress and action of our armies, so far as the
                                    negroes are concerned, is, that its only effect is to take them
                                    from their homes and send them up to Washington to feed them;
                                    and I say here, that if the negro puts himself in the way of our
                                    armies, let him be swept out of the way by force of arms, and
                                    not by proclamation.
                              Mr. BURTON denied the existence of any such society as the Knights
                                    of the Golden Circle, in the North. Such Societies were peculiar
                                    to the South--the natural offset of the pestiferous New England
                                    Abolition societies. Both alike sought to overthrow the
                                    Constitution and the Union. It was an insult to the Democrats of
                                    Indiana to accuse any one of them of belonging to either of such
                                    societies. A man could not belong to them and be a Democrat. The
                                    party in power acted in accordance with the purposes of these
                                    disunion societies. Talk to him about the desire of the
                                    President to restore the Government! He had obtained an army
                                    under false pretensions, and was now wielding it for the
                                    abolition of Slavery. Thus he had driven every hitherto loyal
                                    man in the South to the standard of rebellion. He knew not
                                    whether there were Democrats in the South now or not. After
                                    these troubles were settled he would ascertain that. But
                                    Democrats in the North, now and forever, were opposed to Abraham
                                    Lincoln's infamous emancipation procla-  mation. No language could
                                    express their contempt of him for making himself the dirty tool
                                    of the miserable Abolitionists. He was a man of no purpose,
                                    ruled by others, of very little brain; and it was a great pity
                                    that he was President. It was a great pity that he had not
                                    remained in Springfield to tell jokes in barrooms. Democrats
                                    were opposed to his trampling on the rights of loyal citizens
                                    throughout the North. He did not deny that there were societies
                                    of good and true men, associated to arrest their constitutional
                                    rights against all such despotism. He did not, he said, admit or
                                    deny it. But that old political granny, Joe Wright. who was
                                    distinguished for nothing in particular but his terror of a
                                    thunder storm and his remarkable good judgement as to the
                                    qualities of sheep, had gone all over the State telling the
                                    people that Knights of the Golden Circle were organized in
                                    Indiana and if they didn't look out their houses would
                                    be burned and their wives butchered. He scared some old women
                                    and children, but the people laughed at poor old Joe.
                                    Mr.B.denounced the policy of the Administration. The war from
                                    the beginning he had been opposed to. It was an unnatural, an
                                    inhuman war, waged for the liberation of the negro. He demanded
                                    that it should stop. It was time for peace.
                              Mr. BRANHAM regretted the course the discussion had taken. He
                                    wished for an end of it. He hoped the subject would be dropped.
                                    He hoped nothing said about the President of the United States
                                    would be reported. The resolution was unnecessary, and this
                                    discussion was ill-timed and useless. The interests of the
                                    State--especially in financial matters--required a large amount
                                    of the attention of the House. The State debt of ten millions
                                    would soon be due, and must be provided for. Fraudulent bonds to
                                    the amount of a million were on the market, and require some
                                    action at our hands. The proof was overwhelming that secret
                                    political societies existed all over the State, and would soon
                                    be laid before the public without our action.
                              Mr. NIBLACK did not come to the Legislature to discuss abstract
                                    questions of the sort under consideration. He came here for
                                    practical and needed legislation, he had forborne, although
                                    holding Democratic views, from discussing questions which might
                                    stir up strife and contention. But this question and others like
                                    it, had been thrust upon us. In discussing them he would not
                                    impugns the patriotism of the people. If this war should become
                                    a failure, as the conviction seems to be forcing itself that it
                                    would, he would not charge it upon any party. It would not be
                                    the fault of the masses of any party. All these were alike
                                    patriotic. It would be the fault alone of our Generals in the
                                    field and of those in authority at Washing ton. It was wrong,
                                    therefore, for a man who is tottering on the brink of the grave,
                                    as the gentleman from Boone, (Mr. Cason) seems to be, to charge
                                    the masses of a great party with disloyalty--with seeding by
                                    means of secret political societies, to over throw the
                                    Constitution and the Government. To such societies he [Mr.
                                    Niblack] had always been opposed, and for their dissolution had
                                    relied upon the sober second thought of the people. The people
                                    themselves would correct these things. He could not believe that
                                    such societies existed in Indiana. If so, they would have been
                                    exposed long since. In the portion of the State in which he
                                    lived, the presiding judge of the Circuit had. at every meeting
                                    of the Grand Jury, charged if to investigate concerning these
                                    matters. Communications had been made to his Excellency that
                                    there was such a society in Knox county, consisting of over one
                                    thousand persons. The Grand Jury could not find a vestige of it.
                                    Gentlemen had stated that they had positive personal information
                                    with regard to the existence of secret political societies in
                                    Indiana. He would ask the gentleman from Boone and Hendricks
                                    [Mr. Cason] if he had communicated his facts to any court of
                                    justice.
                              Mr. CASON. The gentleman knows that I based my argument on matters
                                    already before the public. I never asserted that I knew anything
                                    of my own personal knowledge concerning the existence of secret
                                    societies.
                              Mr. NIBLACK. I desire it to go to the country that the gentleman
                                    states that he had no facts--that he had been talking about
                                    something he knew nothing about.
                              Mr. CASON. When the gentleman intimates that I argued from any
                                    facts in my own knowledge, he utters what he knows to be a
                                    slander upon me.
                              Mr. NIBLACK. Does the gentleman impeach my integrity and veracity
                                    when he says I slander him?
                              Mr. CASON. I mean that, as I have said, the gentleman knows he
                                    misrepresents me, when he states that I asserted that I had!
                                    facts of my own with regard to the existence of traitorous
                                    societies,I will not explain one inch further.
                              Mr. NIBLACK. I will not pursue the gentleman further. The man upon
                                    whom Almighty God has laid his hand ought to be spared by man.
                                    But. Mr. Speaker, the men who go about the North crying out
                                    traitor--persecuting some man against whom they entertain malice
                                    perhaps, or whom they wish to beat in an election--these men,
                                    not the best men of the Republican party, the gentleman from
                                    Boone and Hendricks always excepted, should shoulder their
                                    muskets and go South, where there are traitors. He would remind
                                    that gentleman of the adage, that  threatened men live longest. If
                                    traitors could be put down by threats, by proclamations, they
                                    would long ago have been the worst whipped people on
                                    God's earth. They would have been whipped before a blow
                                    was struck. The class of men among us who shout traitor the
                                    loudest, not the sensible gentlemen of the Republican party, the
                                    gentleman from Boone and Hendricks always excepted, approved,
                                    for instance of the McNeil murders in Missouri, where ten
                                    citizens were executed because of the disappearance of an old
                                    man, who reappeared a day or two after the inhuman and most
                                    monstrous deed was done. This class of men, the scavengers and
                                    dirty work doers of the Republican party, the gentlemen from
                                    Boone and Hendricks always exempted, approved, of the
                                    President's emancipation proclamation and of every act
                                    of tyranny and usurpation by the Administration. These were the
                                    men who shouted traitor all the time all the time against as
                                    good and as loyal men as there were in Indiana. These were the
                                    men who would assault hen-roosts at midnight, but who would
                                    never risk their precious bodies in defense of their
                                    country's Constitution and flag.
                              He believed that the agitation of this question was a trick by the
                                    opposition to divert the attention of the people from the
                                    conduct of the war by the Administration. This was an old trick
                                    in party politics.-- He asked gentlemen in opposition if they
                                    would not candidly admit to themselves that this was the fact.
                                    He argued against the proposed investigation, because it would
                                    involve a fruitless expense. It was entirely unnecessary, for
                                    upon the statute books already there was a law bringing to
                                    punishment persons guilty of disloyal practices. The people of
                                    this State are loyal and would enforce that law. We acknowledge
                                    the Constitution of the United States; and if State after State
                                    should leave the Union until Indiana only be left, she would
                                    remain true to the old flag, the old laws and the old
                                    Constitution. Not a single obstruction had ever been offered to
                                    the due administration of the laws in this State. The whole
                                    power of the Government was brought to bear in the case of the
                                    Federal Courts. If the United States Grand Jury, although they
                                    had issued a political pronunciamento previous to the October
                                    election, had failed to ascertain a single presentment; if
                                    county Grand Juries all over the State had failed in like
                                    manner, could we succeed better by any investigation we might
                                    undertake? In conclusion he said that from his former relations
                                    with persons in the South, he certainly should, if such an order
                                    existed in Indiana as the Knights of the Golden Circle, have had
                                    some intimation of it.-- Gentlemen had admitted to him that, in
                                    some localities where there was a good deal of irritation
                                    existing growing out of political arrests, mutual protection
                                    societies had been formed, but there was nothing treasonable in
                                    them. He had also been told by a gentleman yesterday that there
                                    was a secret society in the interest of the administration--in
                                    the interest of that party of which Governor Morton was the head
                                    in this State--now being formed in this city, and that it was to
                                    be extended throughout the State, and arms put in the hands of
                                    its members.
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON. It had been said to the minority that they had
                                          no right to ask for this investigation because they voted
                                          against the resolution on arbitrary arrests. He was in
                                          favor of a free investigation, but as the resolution in
                                          reference to arbitrary arrests stigmatized the government
                                          of our country as guilty of tyranny and outrage, which
                                          would not be committed except in a despotic government, he
                                          voted against it. He had always before this, thought this
                                          a free country. But without any proof to the contrary, he
                                          was called upon to pass that resolution and condemn the
                                          Government as despotic. He referred to the Democratic
                                          members pluming themselves on their possessing all the
                                          honesty and purity in the country, yet the same persons
                                          had just elevated to a responsible position a man who had
                                          appropriated to his own use thousands if not tens of
                                          thousands of dollars of the property of the State, and to
                                          another position a man who had made himself rich out of
                                          contracts with the State and with the United States. As to
                                          Know Nothingism, of which they have such a horror,an order
                                          with which he had never been connected, lie understood the
                                          Democrats in 1856 kept the machine in operation, to assist
                                          in electing James Buchanan, and that in this State in 1856
                                          certain Democrats lined their pockets with gold to keep
                                          the machine running. This war was called an unholy war,
                                          and had been bitterly denounced on this floor. If such men
                                          are in earnest, they would show consistency in putting
                                          themselves alongside with their dear brethren at the
                                          South. They talk of resisting the Administration, but not
                                          the Government. The Constitution has no life except
                                          through the persons administering it. He had heard from
                                          these gentlemen, for every word In favor of the
                                          Constitution, ten words denouncing in the bitterest manner
                                          the Executive and those who sustain him, who are earnestly
                                          endeavoring to save their country. An outsider who was to
                                          form his estimate of the country he was in from, the
                                          character of the remarks and resolutions presented here
                                          from the first day of the session, would have thought
                                          himself in the Palmetto State. Taking, the statement of
                                          members on this floor it was admitted by  them that such societies
                                          existed for mutual protection. The members of these
                                          societies are not willing to rest with the courts the
                                          question of the Constitutionality and justice of the acts
                                          of the administration. They, meeting in secret at night in
                                          bye-places, are to set themselves up as judges, and
                                          determine what is tyranny and what acts of resistance they
                                          shall take against the government. And yet these gentlemen
                                          stand up and justify the people in taking the law in their
                                          own hands, and announce that they are ready to join with
                                          the people.
                                    Mr. LEE. One remark was made by the gentleman who had just
                                          taken his seat which he could not let pass. He had said
                                          that the Democratic party stole. Good God! he did not
                                          suppose that there was a Republican who, at this stage of
                                          the game, would say any thing about stealing! Again: That
                                          gentleman had said that there were traitors in Indiana;
                                          that there were members of the Democratic party who, he
                                          insinuated, were traitors. Why did he not hunt them out
                                          and bring them to punishment? This discussion had
                                          proceeded far enough. It was time now to attend to the
                                          business of legislation. The majority on this floor had
                                          always treated the minority with all due respect, but to
                                          make a finality of the whole thing he moved indefinitely
                                          to postpone it.
                                    Mr. MILROY spoke in vindication of Democratic principles, and
                                          in condemnation of the peculations and villainies of the
                                          Republican party. That party had plundered the public
                                          treasury; had repudiated the professions by which they
                                          obtained power, and he would not be surprised if they
                                          would yet deny their daddies. He (Mr. Milroy) had been in
                                          many battles of the war. But he was a Democrat and
                                          therefore could not sanction a war for the freedom of
                                          Americans of African descent. As for Jeff. Davis, he was a
                                          traitor and ought to be hung as high as Haman, and his
                                          bones left in mid air, for the winds of Heaven to whistle
                                          Yankee Doodle through.
                                    Mr. RICHARDSON vindicated General McClellan, from aspertions
                                          attempted to be cast upon him by the gentleman from St.
                                          Joseph, (Mr. Anderson.) He (Mr. Richardson,) had served
                                          under Gen. McClellan. He was under him in the fearful
                                          battles along the Chickahominy. And he give it as his
                                          deliberate opinion that Gen. McClellan was the only
                                          general able to command our armies. (Applause.) He had
                                          never heard an officer or private utter any thing
                                          detracting from the merits of Gen. McClellan. He had been
                                          hounded by the Abolitionists only.
                                    Mr. GREGORY concluded the debate. He was in favor of a free
                                          and full investigation, and had no partizan ends to serve
                                          in the matter.
                                     Mr. LEE moved to indefinitely postpone.
                                    Mr. BROWN moved to lay the motion and resolution on the
                                          table.
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded by Messrs. Griffith and
                                          Woodruff, and being ordered and taken resulted--yeas 53,
                                          nays 36--as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett,
                                                  Atkison, Blocher, Bregan, Brown, Burton, Colling,
                                                  Cook, Donaldson, Ferris, Garvin, Given, Hall,
                                                  Hanna, Harden,of Washington; Hardin, of Perry;
                                                  Harney, Hetfield, Holcomb, Hon, Howard, Howell,
                                                  Humphreys, Kemp, of Dubois, Lasselle, Lee, Lemmon,
                                                  of Harrison; Lemmon, of Spencer; Mason, McGauchey,
                                                  Miller, Milroy, Mutz, O'Brien, of Martin;
                                                  Osborn, Packard, Pendleton, Priest, Reitz,
                                                  Richardson, Rippey, Ryan, Shaffer, Shoaff, of
                                                  Allen; Shoaff, of Jay Spencer, Veach, Roberts,
                                                  Waterman, Williams, Wolfe, Woollen and Mr.
                                                  Speaker--53.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Abdill,
                                                  Anderson, Baker, Budd, Byerle, Cass, Chambers,
                                                  Davis, Forester,Gregg, Gregory, Griffith Hershey,
                                                  Higgins, Hostetter, James, Johnson, Jones,
                                                  Kendrick, Lamb, Leeds, Marshall, Moorman, Morgan,
                                                  Mustard, Newman, Noyes, O'Brien, of
                                                  Hamilton; Perry, Pettibone, Robinson, Roe, Stone,
                                                  Tarkington, Van Buskirk, and Woodruff--36.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the resolution and pending amendments were laid on the
                                          table.
                                    Mr. ROBERTS moved to reconsider the vote just taken and to
                                          lay that motion on the table.
                                    The latter motion was agreed to.
                                    
                                          HONOR TO OUR SOLDIERS.
                                          Mr. PACKARD offered the following joint resolution [15]
                                                which was read the first time and passed to the
                                                second reading:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  WHEREAS, Patriotism is
                                                  correctly defined as love of our whole country,
                                                  and loyalty the defense and support of its
                                                  Constitution and laws; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The due
                                                  appreciation and encouragement of those who have
                                                  in some distinguished manner evinced these high
                                                  qualities of the citizen are eminently proper, and
                                                  the just tribute of a nation gratitude;
                                                  therefore,
                                                  Be it resolved by the General
                                                  Assembly of the State of Indiana, That we do
                                                  hereby tender our sincere and heartfelt thanks to
                                                  the brave and patriotic soldiery (officers and
                                                  men) of the State, who banishing all feeling of
                                                  passion and resentment, and recollecting only
                                                  their duty to the whole country, have, since this
                                                  unhappy struggle began in our land, gone forth for
                                                  the noble and patriotic purpose of waging this
                                                  war, not in any spirit of conquest or subjugation,
                                                  nor for the purpose of overthrowing or interfering
                                                  with the right or established institution of the
                                                  States, but to maintain and defend the supremacy
                                                  of the Constitution, and to preserve th Union with
                                                  all the dignity, equality and rights of the
                                                  several States unimpaired.
                                                  And we do assure them, that in the noble valor
                                                  and bravery that have so signally distinguished
                                                  them on many hard fought fields, we feel a manly
                                                  pride and satisfaction, and are assured that
                                                  whatever stigma ignorance and injustice may have
                                                  attached to the Indiana soldiery in other times,
                                                  has been nobly wiped out, and that the fair
                                                  escutcheon of our State is left resplendent only
                                                  with glory and renown.
                                                  To the families and friends of the noble brave
                                                  who have fallen in the struggle, we tender our
                                                  deepest sorrow and warmest sympathies; and we
                                                  sincerely trust that the kindness and generosity
                                                  of a patriotic people will never suffer want and
                                                  privation to enter those bereaved households.
                                                  Resolved, That we will use
                                                  every effort, here and elsewhere, to discover and
                                                  bring to punishment that  horde of national
                                                  "horse leeches" (contractors and
                                                  swindlers,) from those nearest the throne of
                                                  power, to the merest tide waiter, who have
                                                  fattened and gloated upon the miseries of their
                                                  country, and gathered their treasures from the
                                                  muscles and blood of our valiant soldiery.
                                                  Resolved, That a committee of
                                                  five--three on the part of the House and two on
                                                  the part of the Senate--be raised, whose duty it
                                                  shall be to carefully collect, and arrange in a
                                                  manner hereinafter prescribed, for future
                                                  preservation, for the use of the State, the names
                                                  of all the Indiana soldiery, (officers and men,)
                                                  who have fallen in this struggle, or who may
                                                  hereafter fall, whether by disease or the violence
                                                  of the enemy; the time, place and cause of their
                                                  death, their names, ages, places of nativity and
                                                  residence, place and date of enlistment, draft, or
                                                  substitution, regiment, company, commanding
                                                  officers, from Colonel to Captain inclusive,
                                                  length of service, the battles, skirmishes or any
                                                  other engagements with the enemy in which they
                                                  have participated, and any other incidents of
                                                  special interest connected with their history; and
                                                  if officers, the office, date of commission,
                                                  division, brigade, regiment or company commanded
                                                  by them, or to which they were attached, with the
                                                  promotions, if any, and the cause of the same, and
                                                  any and all other matters that may be interesting
                                                  and useful in the transmission of these
                                                  illustrious names to the posterity of the State;
                                                  that the whole be inscribed, in a clear and
                                                  legible hand, in a large and suitable book, or
                                                  books, entitled, "Indiana's Roll
                                                  of Honor," and the same to be placed in
                                                  the Library of the State.
                                                  Resolved, That said committee
                                                  be allowed to discharge the duties thereof, after
                                                  the adjournment of this General Assembly, and be
                                                  allowed the per diem and mileage of members of the
                                                  General Assembly for the time necessarily spent,
                                                  and the travel necessarily performed, in the
                                                  discharge of their duties; their several accounts
                                                  to be attested by oath and filed with the Auditor
                                                  of State,and the same to be paid on the warrant of
                                                  the Auditor out of any moneys not otherwise
                                                  appropriated.
                                                  Resolved, That the Governor
                                                  be instructed to transmit a copy of these joint
                                                  resolutions to each Major or Brigadier General,
                                                  and each Colonel, or other commanding officers
                                                  from this State, with the request that they lay
                                                  the same before the Indiana soldiers under their
                                                  command.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, January 23, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. SHIELDS, from the Committee on Elections, returned the
                                    joint resolution [S. 2] amending the Constitution so as to give
                                    the Legislature power to define the residence of voters,
                                    recommending its passage.
                              Mr. MARCH moved that the order of business be suspended, and the
                                    joint reaction, be put upon its passage.
                              Mr. LANDERS advocated the passage of the joint resolution. Our
                                    elections had become a perfect farce. At every meeting of the
                                    Legislature, bills were introduced to prevent fraudulent voting,
                                    but they were defeated because they would conflict with the
                                    Constitution. This joint resolution had passed the last
                                    Legislature unanimously, and he hoped it would pass unanimously
                                    now.
                              The rules were suspended, the joint resolution read the third time
                                    and passed by yeas 35, nays 2, excused 1.
                              
                                    RAILROAD MANAGEMENT.
                                    Mr. REED from the Committee on Corporations reported
                                          back the bill [S. 12] requiring railroad companies to keep
                                          a sufficient supply of rolling stock to do the business of
                                          the country, recommending its passage.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved to suspend the order of
                                          business and take the bill up.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS was opposed to the bill being taken up, believing
                                          that such a law was unnecessary. Railroad companies had
                                          now on hand sufficient rolling stock to do the ordinary
                                          business of the country. The condition of the country was
                                          such that extraordinary demands had been made upon
                                          railroads, and some allowance should be made for this
                                          state of affairs.
                                    Mr. MURRAY was opposed to the principles of the bill. In the
                                          embarrassed condition of some railroads it would be a
                                          hardship to compel them to keep a larger supply of cars
                                          than in their own judgment the business of the country
                                          required. It was their interest to keep a sufficient
                                          amount of rolling stock on hand, and the laws of trade
                                          would govern, if left alone, and all legislation of this
                                          character was out of place.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, said that one would suppose that it
                                          was the interest of railroads to keep a supply of rolling
                                          stock sufficient to do all the business along the lines of
                                          their roads. Such was not, however, the case. Indianapolis
                                          shippers had always been able to get transportation for
                                          their through freight, because of the competition existing
                                          at that point between different roads, But at local
                                          stations it was not so, the roads knew that they had the
                                          freight anyhow, and no competition could take it from
                                          them, and hence they could take their own time to send it
                                          forward. Shippers of live stock from local stations were
                                          frequently put to much inconvenience and loss by delays to
                                          furnish transportation, and while the bill did not
                                          increase the obligations of railroads to provide rolling
                                          stock, it provided that in cases where unreasonable delay
                                          in shipping caused loss, the party injured could recover
                                          damages.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS said he could not agree to the bill unless it was
                                          so amended as to compel the people to furnish a sufficient
                                          amount of freight to keep the rolling stock constantly
                                          employed. He thought the rule should work both ways.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL said all corporations were controlled by self
                                          interest, and with them the interests of the people were
                                          secondary. He thought it the duty of the Legislature to
                                          pass some law fixing the rate per mile at which freight
                                          should be carried on all railroads, and would prefer that
                                          the bill be recommitted so as to incorporate that
                                          principle. Such was the rule of railroads now that a
                                          car-load of hogs was taken from Indianapolis to Cincinnati
                                          at $20, while one from a point on the railroad twenty
                                          miles nearer to Cincinnati was  charged $30. This was the
                                          result of competition between roads at the capital, and
                                          because the local freight was secured to the road any how.
                                          It was manifestly unjust, and we should legislate so as to
                                          convince railroads that the people have some
                                          interests.
                                    Mr. PLEAK agreed with the gentleman from Fayette. He hoped
                                          the bill would be recommitted with instructions so as to
                                          require a uniform rate of prices on fare and freight. He
                                          did not ask a reduction in prices, but that the rates be
                                          uniform. The interest of the country demanded some reform
                                          in this regard.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, withdrew his motion, and the report
                                          was concurred in. So the bill takes its place on the
                                          tiles.
                              
                              
                                    GOVERNMENT OF SCHOOLS.
                                    Mr. PLEAK offered the following which was rejected:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Education be instructed to
                                                  inquire into the expediency of introducing a bill
                                                  to authorise teachers of public schools to use the
                                                  rod of correction in their respective schools
                                                  where it is necessary for the more complete
                                                  government of the same, under the same restriction
                                                  of law, that parents govern their children.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    LIBEL, SLANDER AND BASTARDY.
                                    On motion by Mr. WOLFE, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Judiciary Committee be instructed to
                                                  inquire into the expediency of passing a law
                                                  declaring Libel, Slander and Bastardy,
                                                  misdemeanor, and providing punishment therefor,
                                                  and report by bill or otherwise.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    THE $200 EXEMPTS.
                                    Mr. MURRAY offered the following;
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, His Excellency
                                                  Governor Morton, in his annual message informs the
                                                  Legislature that the tax levied and collected from
                                                  that class of the citizens of this State who were
                                                  conscientiously opposed to bearing arms, was
                                                  levied and collected without law under the
                                                  Constitution of this State, and without authority
                                                  from the General Government.
                                                  AND WHEREAS, said tax was paid by members of some
                                                  Christian denominations and refused to be paid by
                                                  those of others and hence unequal in its
                                                  operation; Therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Finance be and they are
                                                  hereby instructed to report a bill to this Senate
                                                  providing for the return of said tax to those from
                                                  whom it was taken.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. LADDERS opposed the passage of the resolution. These
                                          conscientious scruple men were always willing to vote war
                                          on the country, and when war came they folded their arms
                                          and let others fight it out. If they would not take their
                                          chances of the dangers of the field let them pay for
                                          it.
                                    Mr. RAY would oppose such a bill. He would favor a bill to
                                          compel all men conscientiously opposed to bearing arms to
                                          pay an equivalent, as the Constitution of the State
                                          provided. The provision was in the Constitution, and it
                                          only required a law to fix the amount. When the amount was
                                          fixed, then persons could not plead that they would not
                                          have claimed exemption had they known the amount was fixed
                                          by law. He took a legal view of the case, and quoted
                                          decisions to bear him out in the view that if the
                                          Legislature fixed the amount now, that amount could be
                                          collected from persons who had plead exemption.
                                    Mr. WOLFE did not see any reason for the passage of the
                                          resolution. If the officers had collected money without
                                          law the question was between the parties themselves. This
                                          Legislature would pass a law naming an equivalent, and if
                                          the money was paid, it would not have to be paid
                                          again.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS would like to meet the question squarely here,
                                          and he thought the Senate would vote it down. The sense of
                                          this body was against allowing persons to shield
                                          themselves behind their scruples from all liability to
                                          military service.
                                    Mr. LANDERS hoped the resolution would be defeated right
                                          here. Men were drafted and forced into the service, ami
                                          the passage of any resolution of this kind would cause
                                          discontent among those men. There was discontent enough
                                          without increasing it by any such action.
                                    Mr. TEEGARDEN took the same view.
                                    On motion by Mr. BEARSS the resolution was laid on the
                                          table.
                              
                              
                                    THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                    On motion by Mr. NEW, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That five thousand
                                                  copies of the message of his Excellency Governor
                                                  Morton, and one thousand copies of the
                                                  accompanying documents, be printed for the use of
                                                  the Senate. Also that one thousand copies of the
                                                  message be printed in the German language.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. WOLFE, [25] to amend the first section of an act to
                                          organize Supreme Courts, approved May 13, 1852, and to
                                          district the State for the purposes of electing five
                                          Judges of the Supreme Court.
                                    By Mr. BEESON, [26] to amend the twelfth section of an act
                                          touching the relation of Guardian and Ward, approved June
                                          9, 1852.
                                    By Mr. SHIELDS, [27] to amend the first and repeal the second
                                          sections of an act to provide for the election of Trustees
                                          and Commissioners for the Benevolent Institutions of the
                                          State, approved March 5, 1859.
                                    By Mr. DOWNEY, [28] in addition to the list section of an act
                                          passed in 1861, to amend the 2d section of an act to amend
                                          sections 207 and 208 of the practice act.
                                    By Mr. DICKINSON, [29] to amend section 15 of "An
                                          act regulating prosecutions in cases of bastardy, and
                                          providing for the support of illegitimate
                                          children," approved May 6, 1852, so that
                                          execution may issue against the body of the father where
                                          he is not in custody.
                                    By Mr. GAFF, [30] to provide for the erection and repair of
                                          any bridge across a 
                                          stream forming the boundary line between two counties and
                                          to repeal all laws inconsistent therewith.
                                    By Mr. LANDERS, [31] fixing the a-mount to be paid by persons
                                          claiming exemption from military duty, and providing the
                                          means for collecting the same.
                                    By Mr. NEW. [32] to provide for the publication of notice of
                                          the pendency of suits against defendants whose residence
                                          is unknown.
                                    By Mr. MARCH. [33] prescribing the form of deed that may be
                                          used by Sheriffs and Coroners, providing for the record of
                                          execution and return in certain cases its use as evidence
                                          and fees for recording.
                                    By Mr. HORD, [34] 10 amend the 71st section of an act
                                          providing for the election and qualification of Justices
                                          of the Peace, approved June 9, 1852, as amended by an act
                                          approved March 5, 1859.
                                    By Mr. FERGUSON, [35] to amend section first of an act
                                          defining what shall constitute certain felonies, approved
                                          May 31, 1861.
                                    By Mr. MARCH. [36] to amend the first eleventh and twelfth
                                          sections of an act to exempt property from sale under
                                          certain cases, approved February 17, 1852.
                                    By Mr. DOWNEY, [37] to amend the 20th. 21st and 22d sections
                                          of an act providing for the election and appointment of
                                          Supervisors of highways, approved March 5, 1859, and to
                                          make additional provisions on the same subject.
                                    By Mr. GIFFORD, [38] authorizing the sale of canals,
                                          authorizing the purchaser or purchasers, and his or their
                                          assign, to organize companies and fixing the powers of
                                          such companies, and excepting certain canals from the
                                          provisions of this act.
                                    On motion br Mr. CLAYPOOL the bill [38] was laid on the table
                                          and 100 copies ordered printed.
                                    By Mr. MARCH, [39] to amend the 3d section of an act
                                          prescribing the powers and duties of Justices of the Peace
                                          in State prosecutions, approved May 29, 1852.
                                    By Mr. DOUGLASS, [40] to amend section 1st of the School
                                          Law.
                                    By Mr. BERRY, [4-1] to amend section 11 of the School
                                          Law.
                                    On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the House concurrent resolution
                                          providing for the immediate election of three
                                          Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, and of four Directors
                                          of the Bank of the State--two of the latter to be elected
                                          by the Senate and two by the House, was taken up and
                                          concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                                    The Senate then proceeded to elect two Sinking Fund
                                          Commissioners, to serve four years.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS nominated Samuel P. Mooney, of Jackson.
                                    Mr. MARCH nominated John F. Carr. of Jackson.
                                    Mr. Mooney received 25 votes, and Mr Carr 14.
                                    Mr. Mooney was declared elected.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Ray in the chair) nominated Dillard
                                          Ricketts, of Clark county.
                                    Mr. BERRY nominated Jefferson Helm, of Rush county.
                                    Mr. Ricketts received 25 votes, and Mr. Helm 14 votes.
                                    Mr. Ricketts was declared elected.
                                    The Senate then went into the election of a Sinking Fund
                                          Commissioner to serve for two years.
                                    Mr. LANDERS nominated Parmenter M. Parks of Morgan.
                                    Mr. MARCH nominated Wm. Williams, of Kosciusko.
                                    Mr. Parks received 25 votes, and Mr. Williams 14.
                                    Mr. Parks was declared elected.
                              
                              
                                    BANK DIRECTORS.
                                    The Senate then proceeded to elect two of the Directors, on
                                          the part of the State, of the Bank of the State.
                                    Mr. DUNNING nominated Ransom W. Aiken, of Monroe county.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, nominated Charles Coffin, of Wayne
                                          county.
                                    Mr. Aiken received 25 votes, and Mr. Coffin 14.
                                    Mr. Aiken was declared elected.
                                    Mr. McCLURG nominated Addison L. Roache, of Marion
                                          county.
                                    Mr. MARCH nominated John S. Bobbs. of Marion county.
                                    Mr. Roache received 25 votes, and Mr. Bobbs 14.
                                    Mr. Roache was declared elected.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The business pending at adjournment yesterday was the
                                          resolution instructing the Judiciary Committee to
                                          inquire into the expediency of abolishing Common Pleas
                                          Courts.
                                    The pending amendments and instructions were agreed to.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON offered as additional instructions that they
                                          inquire into the expediency of providing to hold four
                                          terms yearly of the Circuit Courts, two terms for criminal
                                          and two for civil business.
                                    Mr. FERGUSON offered additional instructions inquiring into
                                          the expediency of creating the office of Surrogate for
                                          each county, to have jurisdiction of probate matters,
                                          without salary, other than the fees of the office and to
                                          be kept open at all times for the transaction of
                                          business.
                                    These instructions were also agreed to.
                                    
                                          PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                          Mr. LANDERS called up the House concurrent resolution
                                                instructing Senators and requesting Representatives
                                                in Con-  to vote
                                                for reducing the pay of officers and increasing the
                                                pay of privates in the army.
                                          The pending motion was to lay on the table an amendment
                                                to the resolution see page 48 of these Reports.
                                          The motion to lay on the table was rejected by yeas 16,
                                                nays 22.
                                          Mr. McCLURG. The adoption of the amendment would make
                                                the resolution different from what he expected, He
                                                did wot wish to affect the pay of officers, and was
                                                decidedly in favor of raising the pay of privates
                                                and non-commissioned officers.
                                          Mr. RAY was opposed to the reduction, and would prefer
                                                to have the instruction stricken out, but it was
                                                perhaps the best that those could get who favored
                                                the increase of pay to the non-commissioned officers
                                                and privates, and yet thought the pay of
                                                commissioned officers should not be reduced.
                                          Mr. LANDERS and Mr. MARCH favored the resolution as it
                                                came from the House.
                                          Mr. BROWN, of Wells, moved to a-mend by striking out
                                                all that relates to commissioned officers, and by
                                                inserting in the proper place an instruction to
                                                reduce the pay of commissioned officers to such an
                                                extent as will more nearly equalize the pay of
                                                officers and privates.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, accepted the amendment of the
                                                gentleman from Wells.
                                          Mr. MELLETT and Mr. RAY thought if the amendment was
                                                adopted it would indicate the wish of the Senate to
                                                make the pay of officers and men equal.
                                          On motion by Mr. MARCH the resolution and pending
                                                amendments were referred to a select committee.
                                          The PRESIDENT makes the committee to consist of Messrs.
                                                March, Browne of Randolph, Brown, of Wells, Shields,
                                                Ray, and Landers.
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          VOLUNTARY ASSOCIATIONS.
                                          The bill [S. 10] amending the law respecting voluntary
                                                associations, was read the third time and passed by
                                                yeas 39, nays 0.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          Senate bills numbered 19 to 24 inclusive (for a
                                                description of which see pages 60 and 61 of these
                                                Reports) were read the second time and severally
                                                referred to appropriate committees.
                                    
                                    
                                          BANK DIRECTORS.
                                          On motion by Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Wolfe in the chair) the
                                                House message announcing the election by the House
                                                of Andrew Humphreys, of Green, and Samuel C. Wilson,
                                                of Montgomery, as Bank Directors was taken up and
                                                concurred in and the Senate proceeded to ballot.
                                          Mr. DUNNING nominated Andrew Humphreys of Green
                                                county.
                                          Mr. MARCH nominated Miles Murphy of Henry county.
                                          Mr. Humphreys received 26 votes and Mr. Murphy 18.
                                          The PRESIDENT declared that the Senate had concurred in
                                                the election of Mr. Humphreys.
                                          For the other Bank Director Mr. DUNNING nominated
                                                Samuel C. Wilson, of Montgomery County.
                                          Mr. TEEGARDEN nominated William C. Hanna, of Laporte
                                                county.
                                          Mr. Wilson received 26 votes and Mr. Hanna 18.
                                          The PRESIDENT declared that the Senate had concurred in
                                                the election of Mr. Wilson.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, January 23,1863.
                              
                              Petitions were presented and referred to appropriate committees, to
                                    wit:
                              By Mr. KILGORE. For the suppression of intemperance, from citizens
                                    of Delaware county.
                              By Mr. PENDLETON. For the enforcement of the 13th Article of the
                                    Constitution, from 113 citizens of Johnson county.
                              By Mr. MILROY. From citizens of Carrol county, for the
                                    incorporation of the Indiana College for Agricultural and
                                    Mechanical Arts.
                              By Mr. DONALDSON. From citizens of Miami county, for the amendment
                                    of the law for the collection of debts so as to make debts
                                    collectible at the place where contracted.
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY.
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. KENDRICK, whether any private company has the right to
                                          make a toll road of the old Michigan road.
                                    By Mr. LAMB, whether any legislation is necessary to secure
                                          the better attendance of pupils at school.
                                    By Mr. HOLCOMB, concerning a fixed rate for advertising
                                          delinquent land sales.
                                    By Mr. MUSTARD, into the propriety of fixing the jurisdiction
                                          of justices of the peace in certain cases.
                                    By Mr. HARNEY, a concurrent resolution, for the transmission
                                          of a memorial of this Legislature to the Legislature of
                                          New York against the high rates of toll charged upon the
                                          transit of western produce.
                                    By Mr. KENDRICK, as to the legality of the erection of a toll
                                          gate at the White river bridge by the Central Plank Road
                                          Company.
                                    On motion by Mr. DONALDSON the vote on his resolution
                                          proposing a legislative apportionment committee was
                                          reconsidered and the resolution amended raising a  joint committee
                                          which the Speaker subsequently made to consist of Messrs.
                                          Donaldson, Holcomb, Howard, Cook, Van Buskirk, Moorman,
                                          Mason, Puett, Hetfield, Davis and James, on the part of
                                          the House.
                                    Mr. SHAFFER made a similar motion in reference to his
                                          resolution for a congressional apportionment, which was
                                          a-greed to and the Speaker subsequently made the committee
                                          to consist of Messrs. Shaffer, Chambers, Harden, of
                                          Washington, Abbott, Hall, Perry, Atkison, Abdill, Miller,
                                          Shoaff, of Allen, and McGauchey, on the part of the
                                          House.
                              
                              
                                    JOINT RESOLUTIONS
                                    Were introduced, read the first time and passed to the second
                                          reading, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. RICHARDSON, [16] protesting against the election of
                                          members of Congress, in any Congressional District, where
                                          the forms of the State laws are not complied with, and
                                          denouncing their, admission.
                                    By Mr. ANDERSON.[17] for the increase of pay of
                                          non-commissioned officers in the army, and of privates,
                                          increasing the pay of the latter to twenty dollars per
                                          month.
                                    By Mr. CASON, [18] endorsing the expulsion of Jesse D. Bright
                                          from the Senate of the United States.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. GREGORY, |74] to authorise county Boards to erect
                                          suitable monuments for the Indiana volunteers who have
                                          fallen in their country's service.
                                    By Mr. MUTZ, [75] to provide for the inspection of petroleum
                                          and other burning oils.
                              
                              
                                    SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                                    In pursuance of a resolution--
                                    The House then proceeded to elect two Sinking Fund
                                          Commissioners, to serve four years.
                                    Mr. BROWN nominated Samuel P. Mooney of Jackson county.
                                    Mr. HIGGINS nominated Win. Williams, of Kosciusko.
                                    Mr. Mooney received 54 votes, and Mr. Williams 36.
                                    Mr. Mooney was declared elected.
                                    Mr. MUTZ nominated Dillard Ricketts, of Clark county.
                                    Mr. MOORMAN nominated John F. Carr, of Jackson.
                                    Mr. Ricketts received 53 votes, and Mr. Carr 38.
                                    Mr. Ricketts was declared elected.
                                    The House then went into the election of a Sinking Fund
                                          Commissioner to serve for two years.
                                    Mr. PACKARD nominated Parmenter M. Parks of Morgan.
                                    Mr. MOORMAN nominated Jefferson Helm, of Rush county.
                                    Mr. Parks received 53 votes, and Mr. Helm 2S votes.
                                    Mr. Parks was declared elected.
                              
                              
                                    BANK DIRECTORS
                                    The House then proceeded to elect two of the Directors, on
                                          the part of the State, of the Bank of the State.
                                    Mr. HARVEY nominated Samuel C, Wilson, of Montgomery
                                          county.
                                    Mr. JONES nominated James Moorman, of Randolph.
                                    Mr. Wilson received 53 votes, and Mr. Moorman 37.
                                    Mr. Wilson was declared elected.
                                    Mr. HANNA nominated Andrew Humphreys, of Greene.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON nominated John B, Niles of Laporte.
                                    Mr. Humphreys received 53 votes, and Mr. Niles 34.
                                    Mr. Humphreys was declared elected.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The following bills were introduced read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. MASON, [76] to compel the railroads to carry freight
                                          in certain cases.
                                    By Mr. GRIFFITH, [77] to erect the 16th Judicial Circuit.
                                    By Mr. McGAUCHEY, [78] to enable other persons than
                                          corporations--to reclaim wet lands.
                                    By Mr. LEEDS, [79] to prohibit the Clerks of Circuit and
                                          Common Pleas Courts from acting as attorneys in their
                                          respective Courts.
                                    By Mr. FERRIS, [80] to exempt the vendors of real or personal
                                          property selling the same on the first of the year, from
                                          assessment on the same.
                                    By Mr. BROWN, [81] to amend the 1st section of the Supreme
                                          Court Act and to re-district the State into five
                                          districts, and to provide for the election of officer; and
                                          Judges.
                                    By Mr. SPENCER, [82] to amend the first section of the act
                                          regulating County Boards--changing the time of meeting and
                                          the term of sessions.
                                    By Mr. HIGGINS, [83] to amend the twenty-first section of the
                                          Justice's act.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, [84] to repeal the 18th section of the
                                          Decedent's Law.
                                    By Mr. FERRIS, [85] to amend the License Law---fixing 25$ as
                                          the License fee.
                                    
                                          THANKS TO OUR SOLDIERS.
                                          The following Senate concurrent resolution of thanks to
                                                Major General Rosecrans and his army for services at
                                                Murfreesboro (introduced on page 60 of these
                                                Reports) was taken up and adopted:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, by the Senate, the
                                                  House concurring. That the thanks of this General
                                                  Assembly are hereby tendered to Major General
                                                  Rosecrans and the officers and soldiers under his
                                                  command for the well earned victory of
                                                  Murfreesboro, Tennessee. That they, one and all,
                                                  merit the lasting gratitude of the nation and the
                                                  admiration of the world.

                                                  

                                                  Resolved, That the patriotic
                                                  earnestness skill, sleepless vigilance and
                                                  pertinacity displayed by the commanding General in
                                                  his advance upon the enemy, his plan of battle,
                                                  and especially in promptly meeting the exigencies
                                                  of its varying fortunes, prove that he was the
                                                  right man in the place; that the hearty and prompt
                                                  co-operation, the gallantry and skill of his
                                                  division and other commanders, the ready obedience
                                                  unyielding and hardy courage or the soldiers are
                                                  worthy of the highest commendation.
                                                  Resolved, That the Army of
                                                  the Cumberland, Murfreesboro, and the name of each
                                                  fallen and surviving patriot who took part in that
                                                  perilous struggle, are forever linked together in
                                                  historic renown; and Indiana will forever and
                                                  gratefully cherish their memory to the latest
                                                  generation, as among the brightest jewels of an
                                                  undivided republic.
                                                  Resolved, That the Secretary
                                                  of the Senate be directed to forward a copy of
                                                  these resolutions to Major General Rosecrans, with
                                                  the request that they be read at the head of each
                                                  regiment taking part in the battle, if consistent
                                                  with the rules of military propriety and
                                                  discipline,
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          THANKS TO GOVERNOR MORTON.
                                          The Senate concurrent resolution commending Governor O.
                                                P. Morton (printed on page 58 of these Reports) was
                                                taken up.
                                          Mr. BROWN moved to strike out the word
                                                "that" in the phrase
                                                "that solicitude,'' and
                                                insert the word "whatever" in its
                                                stead. He was willing to compliment his Excellency,
                                                (and he was a gentleman who needed compliment,
                                                assuredly.) according to his deserts, but not for
                                                what he had left undone. Every gentleman, whether
                                                Democrat or Republican, who should do any thing for
                                                our soldiers, well, sick or wounded, certainly
                                                deserves praise, but at the same time he did no more
                                                than his duty. The qualifying word
                                                "whatever" was, therefore,
                                                applicable in this resolution. Render unto Morton
                                                the things that are Morton's.
                                          On motion by Mr. PERRY the amendment was laid on the
                                                table--yeas 52, nays 28.
                                           Mr. PACKARD thought that there were others who ought
                                                to be associated with his Excellency in this matter.
                                                Many private citizens including ladies had far
                                                exceeded his Excellency, according to common report,
                                                in personal sacrifices in behalf of our brave and
                                                gallant soldiers. If they were mentioned along with
                                                his Excellency in the resolution he would vote for
                                                it. Otherwise not.
                                          On motion by Mr. HOLCOMB the resolution was referred to
                                                a select committee of five, by yeas 41, nays 40.
                                          The SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Holcomb, Tarkington,
                                                Hanna, O'Brien, of Hamilton, and
                                                Spencer.
                                    
                                    
                                          AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION.
                                          The Joint Resolution [S. 1.] to amend the Constitution
                                                to enable incorporated cities and towns to levy
                                                taxes for school purposes; and [S.2] proposing
                                                amendments to the Constitution to prevent fraudulent
                                                voting, were read the first time and severally
                                                passed to the second reading.
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          ARSENAL AND ARMORY
                                          The bill [S.6] ceding to the United States jurisdiction
                                                of lands purchased for Armory and Arsenal, and
                                                exempting them from taxation, was read the first
                                                time and passed to the second reading.
                                          The House concurred in the action of the Senate
                                                electing Sinking Fund Commissioners and Bank
                                                Directors by yeas 65, nays 13.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          House bills numbered 36 to 44 inclusive (for a
                                                description of which see page 54 of these Reports)
                                                were read the second time and severally referred to
                                                appropriate committees.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, January 24,1863.
                              
                              The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                    severally passed to the second reading, unless otherwise
                                    stated.
                              By Mr. WOLFE on behalf of the Judiciary Committee, [42]
                                    defining the offense of bastardy and prescribing the punishment
                                    therefor.
                              By Mr. BROWN, of Wells, [43] to make Gavin and Hord's
                                    printed edition of the statutes evidence in all courts and
                                    places of the acts therein contained.
                              On motion by Mr. BROWN of Wells, the rules were suspended--yeas 36,
                                    nays 0--and the bill was read the second time.
                              On motion by Mr. WOLFE the words "prima
                                          facie" were inserted before the word
                                    "evidence," He was willing to let those
                                    statutes go into the Courts as presumptive but not conclusive
                                    evidence. They might not agree with the acts in every
                                    particular, but he was willing to allow them to be presented to
                                    the Courts as the law until the contrary appeared, but no
                                    further.
                              Mr. RAY thought the bill would amount to but little practically,
                                    unless the statutes were to be taken as conclusive evidence, and
                                    to that he was opposed. They were already received as prima facie correct.
                              On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON the bill was referred to the
                                          Judiciary Committee.
                              By Mr. SHIELDS, [44] supplemental to an act to enforce the 13th
                                    article of the Constitution, approved June 18, 1852.
                              By Mr. BEESON, [45] to amend section second of an act entitled an
                                    act in relation to County Auditors, approved May 31, 1852.
                              By Mr. HORD, [46] to amend section 6 of an act entitled an act to
                                    revise the criminal practice, approved June 17, 1852.
                              
                                    COLLECTION OF REVENUE.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on the Judiciary be
                                                  instructed to bring in a bill to have the revenue,
                                                  State, County and Town  ship Treasurer, and to
                                                  pay over all that part of said Revenue that
                                                  belongs to the State and County Treasurers.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. SHIELDS contended that the adoption of such a measure
                                          would secure the collection of more revenue than by the
                                          present method, without increasing the expenses of
                                          collection, and payments would be made more promptly.
                                    Mr. WOLFE said that the office of county treasurer was named
                                          in the Constitution, and could not be dispensed with. The
                                          effect of the measure would be to increase the number of
                                          officers, without lessening the duties or labors of the
                                          county treasurers. It would increase the expenses without
                                          giving any corresponding advantages.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS replied that the advantages gained was in making
                                          it more convenient to tax payers to pay their dues to an
                                          officer near at home, and that officer could do the
                                          collecting for much less than the county treasurer could,
                                          all of which saving would act as a reduction of expenses.
                                          This was the New York system, and in that State taxes were
                                          collected and disbursed at much less expense than in any
                                          other State.
                                    Mr. MURRAY favored the proposition, believing that it would
                                          be a less expensive system, and more convenient to the
                                          people. Even if the fees of the county treasurers were not
                                          reduced, the money saved to the people in the item of
                                          traveling expenses would alone amount to considerable. It
                                          would, by bringing these offices home to the people, do
                                          much toward breaking up the Court house cliques that
                                          claimed the right to hold all the offices and rule the
                                          people in other parts of counties.
                                    Mr. FERGUSON said that, when it was necessary to legislate
                                          for the people, he should not stop to inquire whether he
                                          was striking at offices or not. He was willing the subject
                                          should be inquired into.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS offered the following substitute for the
                                          resolution:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on County and Township
                                                  business be authorized to inquire into
                                                  the propriety of requiring the County Treasurer to
                                                  employ and keep deputies in each township for the
                                                  purpose of receiving the State, County and all
                                                  other revenue.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. SHIELDS accepted the substitute.
                                    Mr. RAY. There was a tendency to scatter offices and diffuse
                                          them to such a degree that all dignity and all
                                          consideration was removed from the offices of the country.
                                          The Judiciary had been impaired in this way. He argued
                                          against any change. To strike down a responsible office
                                          and create in each county ten or twelve petty offices in
                                          its stead, would be to make a farce of the whole system.
                                          Why not at once place it in the hands of the constables?
                                          He ridiculed the idea that seemed to prevail of frittering
                                          away the responsible offices of the country.
                                    Mr. WOLFE replied to the question of expense, and by taking
                                          his county (Harrison) as a basis, his calculation of the
                                          cost of the collection being at, two and a half per cent.,
                                          (which was the proposed cost of collection by the
                                          gentleman from Jackson, Mr. Shields,) made it greater than
                                          it is now. He was opposed to the change, however,
                                          independent of this view, and agreed with the gentleman
                                          from Shelby that it was wrong so fritter away responsible
                                          offices.
                                    Mr. LANDERS was a farmer, but he was opposed to the change.
                                          He could see no economy in it. The system of township
                                          assessment was not as good as the county assessment. By
                                          scattering these petty employments among the people, the
                                          inevitable effect is, to get a crowd of irresponsible and
                                          inefficient officers.
                                    Mr. MARCH said he had the same ideas about government that he
                                          had about medicine--the less we had of it the better. If a
                                          system could be devised by which the money could be
                                          collected at home, and by which it would remain in fewer
                                          hands, he should go for it. He believed that this tax
                                          collecting business could be thus conducted at an almost
                                          nominal expense to the people.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS thought the proposition affected every man in
                                          the community more or less. If a system could be devised
                                          that would be a convenience to the whole people it should
                                          be done. Why ridicule it? Let the reference be made and
                                          the subject investigated.
                                    Mr. RAY did not intend any offense by his remarks. All he
                                          intended to say was that all attempts to strike down the
                                          respect that attaches to responsible positions was a
                                          species of vandalism that should be checked. The blows at
                                          our judiciary system were of this kind. It was an axiom
                                          that the fewer hands the public money passed through the
                                          less fear of corruption and the better for the people and
                                          the cheaper, and he should oppose the proposition to
                                          change the system of collecting the revenue.
                                    Mr. CORBIN opposed the resolution. He thought the result of
                                          the change of a system would work evil and not good, and
                                          it would be more expensive. The accommodation to the
                                          people, that the friends of the measure urge in its favor,
                                          was more ideal than real.
                                    Mr. FERGUSON. The subject was worthy of consideration. If a
                                          system can he adopted to convenience the people, adopt it.
                                          By voting for the resolution Senators did not commit
                                          themselves to any schema that might be desired.
                                    On motion by Mr. MOORE, the resolution was amended by adding
                                          in the proper place these words:
                                    "That each tax payer, at the time of paying his tax
                                          shall make out a schedule of his taxable property and hand
                                          it in to the collector at the time of  paying his tax, or at some
                                          subsequent time on or before the first day of
                                          June."
                                    The resolution, as amended, was adopted.
                                    On motion by Mr. LENDERS it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That when the
                                                  Senate adjourn it will he till Monday, at 2
                                                  o'clock p.m.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    Senate bills numbered 25 to 41 inclusive (for a description
                                          of which see pages 79 and 80 of these Reports) were read
                                          the second time and severally referred to appropriate
                                          committees.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, January 24, 1863.
                              
                              The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Governor
                                    relative to money paid by conscientious exempts. Twenty-one
                                    thousand dollars have been paid to J. P. Siddall, Commissioner
                                    of Drafting and deposited in bank, awaiting action by the
                                    Legislature.
                              On motion of Mr. BROWN his Excellency's communication was
                                    referred to the Judiciary Committee, with
                                    instructions to report the necessary legislation.
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY.
                                    Addressed to appropriate Committees were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. JONES, into the expediency of amending the Plank Road
                                          Law so that stockholders shall be liable for the debts of
                                          their respective companies.
                                    By Mr. JONES, into the expediency of amending the Plank Road
                                          Law so that stockholders shall be liable for the debts of
                                          their respective companies.
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK, into the expediency of legislation to provide
                                          for the payment of the costs of Justices in criminal
                                          cases, when conviction does not take place.
                                    By Mr. RICHARDSON, into the expediency of legislation to make
                                          the rolling stock of railroads liable to attachment for
                                          damage to live stock killed by roads.
                              
                              
                                    GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                    Mr. HARNEY offered a resolution, Which was adopted, directing
                                          the printing of one thousand copies of the
                                          Governor's message and accompanying document, as
                                          transmitted to the Senate.
                              
                              
                                    INDIANA LEGION.
                                    On motion by Mr. ROBERTS, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the Adjutant
                                                  General be requested to lay before the House at
                                                  the earliest day practicable, a statement
                                                  showing--
                                                  
                                                  The number of companies in each
                                                  county, organized under the military law of the
                                                  State, that are entitled to compensation by reason
                                                  of their having been engaged, by order of the
                                                  Governor, in active military duty, during the
                                                  years 1861 and 1862, in protecting the southern
                                                  border from invasion.
                                                  The names of the commissioned and
                                                  non-commissioned officers (giving their rank)
                                                  belonging to each of said companies.
                                                  The number of men in each of said
                                                  companies.
                                                   The length of time each of said
                                                  companies were on active duty.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    JOINT RESOLUTIONS
                                    Were introduced, read the first time, and severally passed to
                                          the second reading, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. KENDRICK, [18] instructing our Congressmen to labor
                                          for the passage of an act to entitle discharged volunteers
                                          to receive the full bounty of one hundred dollars
                                    By Mr. HIGGINS, [19] instructing our Congressmen in favor of
                                          an appropriation for the improvement of the Harbor at
                                          Michigan City.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills, were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK, [86] to provide for the publication of notice
                                          in civil cases against non-residents.
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN, [87] to define and punish assault.
                                    By Mr. MILROY, [88] to amend section 5 of the act to punish
                                          the circulation of authorized currency--aimed against
                                          scrip issued by corporations or individuals.
                                    By Mr. HERSHEY, [89] to amend the 20th section of the
                                          supervisor's law.
                                    By Mr. LAMB, [90] to authorize owners of real estate in
                                          counties where they do not reside to pay taxes on the same
                                          to the State Treasurer.
                                    By Mr. GIVEN, [911 to provide for the payment by railroads of
                                          stock killed by the same.
                                    Mr. HARDIN of Perry, [92] to regulate the collection of
                                          delinquent taxes by the County Treasurers.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, [93] to provide for accepting the national
                                          land grant for Agricultural Colleges and appointing Henry
                                          I. Morrison Commissioner to act in the premises.
                              
                              
                                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON called from the table his resolution authorizing
                                          the Clerk to contract with ARIEL & W. H. D RAPIER
                                          for 1500 copies of the continuation of their
                                          "Brevier Legislative Reports."
                                    On motion by Mr. HIGGINS, the resolution was referred to a
                                          select Committee of five, with instructions to inquire
                                          into the cost and report on Monday.
                                    The SPEAKER makes the committee to consist of Messrs.
                                          Higgins, Packard, Anderson, Griffith, and Waterman.
                                    On motion of Mr. WATERMAN, the committee were instructed to
                                          inquire an to the cost of printing as part of the Reports
                                          all the engrossed bills, and placing them on the table of
                                          members.
                              
                              
                                    VOLUNTARY ASSOCIATIONS.
                                    The voluntary association bill [S. 10] (described on page 47
                                          of these Reports,) was read the first time.
                              

                              

                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    House bills numbered 45 to 60 inclusive (for a description of
                                          which see pages 54, 57 and 58 of these Reports) were read
                                          the second time and severally referred to appropriate
                                          committees.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    MONDAY, January 20, 1863.
                              
                              The Senate met at 2 o'clock p. m.
                              Mr. MARCH presented a memorial from a stockholder of the Branch of
                                    the Bank of the State at Lawrenceburg, complaining of
                                    mismanagement of the business thereof on the part of E. G.
                                    Burkham, President, to the injury of the community and
                                    stockholders, and in violation of the provisions of the charter,
                                    and asking the appointment of an agent to investigate the
                                    facts-- the Board of Directors of the State Bank refusing to
                                    interfere.
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, offered a concurrent resolution ordering
                                    the appointment of a joint committee to investigate the matters
                                    complained of by the memoralist.
                              On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL it was amended so as to refer the
                                    memorial to the Committee on Banks.

                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Were severally concurred in, to-wit:
                                    Recommending that the bill [S. 11] to enable holders of notes
                                          to bring suit without requiring the payee on the note to
                                          be made a party, be laid on the table.
                                    Messrs. CLAYPOOL, CORBIN, RAY and MARCH spoke in favor of
                                          sustaining the report and against the bill, and Mr. BROWNE
                                          of Randolph, on the opposite side of the question.
                                    Recommending that Senate bills numbered 2, 5, and 8 (see
                                          pages 36, 37 and 44 of these Reports) be laid on the
                                          table.
                              
                              
                                    COURTS IN THE TWENTIETH CIRCUIT.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, introduced a bill [47] changing the time
                                          of holding Common Pleas Courts in the 20th Judicial
                                          Circuit district, which was under a suspension of the
                                          rules, read the third time and passed--yeas 28, nays
                                          0.
                              
                              
                                    CRIMINAL PRACTICE.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, reported from the Judiciary
                                                Committee his bill [3] repealing that part
                                          of the criminal code giving to the defendant the right to
                                          close the argument before a jury.
                                    Mr. RAY moved to indefinitely postpone the bill. He thought
                                          the practice as now existing in this State, allowing the
                                          council for the defendant to close the argument, was more
                                          in consonance with humanity and the enlightened spirit of
                                          the age than the old practice which the bill sought to
                                          restore. The time was, in the dark ages, when the criminal
                                          was not supposed to open his mouth himself, or by
                                          attorney,-- From this cruel stage we have progressed, and
                                          on this subject we should not recede.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, reported from the Judiciary
                                                Committee his bill [3] repealing that part
                                          of the criminal code giving to the defendant the right to
                                          close the argument before a jury advantages under which
                                          prosecuting attorneys now labor, and urged the return to
                                          the old practice, giving the prosecution the opening and
                                          the closing arguments.-- Under the practice now, a
                                          criminal must not only be guilty, but must be desperately
                                          guilty, to be convicted. The law should not be made
                                          specialty for criminals, but to establish justice.
                                    Mr. CORBIN did not think that the criminal had so many
                                          advantages as the Senator from Randolph had depicted. He
                                          was first indicted by a secret tribunal (the Grand Jury,)
                                          and the State had ample time to arrange and mature its
                                          case. The provision of the law as it now exist was a
                                          merciful one, and should not be repealed.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY thought that the prosecutor should open and close
                                          the argument and he did not see that it should not prevail
                                          in criminal as In civil cases. The Christianity of the
                                          provision had beer quoted to maintain the present practice
                                          but gentlemen should remember that the great public were
                                          to be protected by the law as well as those whom the law
                                          seized as offenders. The presumption was always in favor
                                          of the criminal, and he thought that sufficient without
                                          giving him so much, and such undue advantage in the
                                          argument. He would favor the change.
                                    Mr. RAY. Questions proposing to change a rule of law should
                                          not be passed upon hastily. The change of laws, the
                                          constant and frequent change,was a source of universal
                                          complaint. At home gentlemen might. hear it from all
                                          classes of their constituents. The Judge on the bench, the
                                          farmer, the mechanic, the merchant, the editor, all
                                          protested against the fluctuations in the laws. It was an
                                          evil and a very grave one. We are advancing in
                                          civilization, even over our ancestors on this Continent.
                                          We have passed the period when witches were tried by the
                                          ordeal of fire or water. We do not take an unfortunate
                                          woman, accused of witchcraft, and throw her into a
                                          horse-pond, as they did in pious New England, and if she
                                          swam, declare her guilty, and if she perished, pronounce
                                          her innocent. We had got beyond that point in our criminal
                                          practice, and he did not desire to go back to pious New
                                          England, or to Old England either, to mould our statutes.
                                          He spoke at length and with great force in favor of the
                                          law as it now stands.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL thought that the people of Indiana were as
                                          jealous of their rights as any other people, and under the
                                          law and practice as it now stands crimi-  nals had a poor chance of
                                          escape. Our prison records show this. The presumption in
                                          the public mind is always against the person charged with
                                          crime, and the protecting shield of the law was often
                                          required to shield innocent parties unjustly accused of
                                          crime. His experience was that the guilty, seldom escape.
                                          Let the accused have the benefit of doubts and let them
                                          have the closing argument, and you would have convictions
                                          enough. The clemency of the law seldom relieves criminals
                                          in a virtuous community. Justice, although lame, will
                                          overtake the criminal. Temper justice with mercy. It is
                                          the theory of our Government and of our system, and it is
                                          the correct theory.
                                    Mr. McCLURG was usually opposed to change, particularly
                                          radical changes. But this was not a radical change. It was
                                          simply a change of practice or forms of trial, and was not
                                          obnoxious to the objections urged by gentlemen on that
                                          score.-- He favored the change proposed by the bill, as it
                                          gave a greater certainty to the penal code.
                                    Mr. MARCH, The question has been so ably argued that he did
                                          not think it necessary to do more than give the reason of
                                          his vote. He was opposed to the change. The law as it now
                                          stands, as had been well said by the gentleman from
                                          Shelby, (Mr. Ray) and the Senator from Marshall, (Mr.
                                          Corbin) was in accordance with the humanity and the
                                          Christianity of the age. The experience of jurists and of
                                          philanthropists, and of all who had directed attention to
                                          criminal jurisprudence, was, that barbarity of the law was
                                          no check to crime. Do not take a step back in civilization
                                          and in jurisprudence. This law has done credit to the
                                          State, and he saw no reason to change it.
                                    The motion to indefinitely postpone was agreed to by yeas 22,
                                          nays 15.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    MONDAY, January 26, 1863.
                              
                              House bills 61 to 93 inclusive (for a description of which see
                                    pages 64, 68, 82 and 85) were read the second time and severally
                                    referred to appropriate committees.
                              
                                    A LEGISLATIVE VISIT.
                                    Mr. BLOCHER offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the members of
                                                  this General Assembly now in session be requested
                                                  to visit the Legislature of the State of Kentucky,
                                                  and have a general expression on the subject of
                                                  the war, and to meet together in council for that
                                                  purpose.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. LAMB thought the Legislature would act more sensibly if
                                          they waited till they were invited.
                                    Mr. LASSELLE offered the following substitute.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolvedby the House, the
                                                  Senate concurring, that the members of this
                                                  General Assembly will as a body visit the General
                                                  Assembly of the State of Kentucky on the 18th
                                                  proximo, should the same be acceptable to the
                                                  gentlemen composing that body.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. LASSELLE the resolution and pending
                                          amendment were made the special order for 3
                                          o'clock p.m. Wednesday.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Petitions were presented and referred to appropriate
                                          committees, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. GIVEN from citizens of Daviess, for additional
                                          remedies for stock killed along the Ohio and Mississippi
                                          railroad.
                                    By Mr. WOOLLEN, from citizens of Johnson county, asking
                                          further legislation preventing negro immigration.
                                    
                                          REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES
                                          Recommending that House bills 6, 7 and 52 (see pages 43
                                                and 57 of these Reports) be laid on the table, were
                                                severally concurred in.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE $200 EXEMPTS.
                                          Mr. PACKARD offered the following, which was
                                                adopted:

                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  WHEREAS, The Drafting
                                                  Commissioner for the State of Indiana has
                                                  collected from conscientious exempts a large sum
                                                  of money, and deposited the same in one of the
                                                  banks of this city to await further legislation
                                                  from this General Assembly; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Military Affairs
                                                  be instructed to inquire whether such money has
                                                  been collected according to law, and if it shall
                                                  be found to have been so collected, that said
                                                  committee be instructed to report a joint
                                                  resolution authorizing the distribution of said
                                                  funds for the benefit of the sick and wounded
                                                  soldiers, destitute widows and orphans of deceased
                                                  soldiers, and destitute families of those now in
                                                  the service of their country from this State. And
                                                  the said resolution shall further authorize a
                                                  committee of 5 to be raised, three on the part of
                                                  the House and two on the part of the Senate, whose
                                                  duty it shall be to take charge of, and
                                                  distribute, said funds as in said joint resolution
                                                  shall be provided. But if it shall be found that
                                                  said money, or any part thereof, has been
                                                  unlawfully collected, that said Draft Commissioner
                                                  be authorized and commanded to return the same, or
                                                  so much thereof as shall have been unlawfully
                                                  collected, to the persons from whom the same has
                                                  been collected.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          STATE ARMS, &C.
                                          On motion by Mr. BROWN, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That his Excellency
                                                  the Governor be requested to inform this House at
                                                  an early day of the whole number of arms and whole
                                                  amount of munitions of war, of every description,
                                                  now on hand belonging to this State; the whole
                                                  number of arms and whole amount of munitions of
                                                  war that have been purchased for the State during
                                                  his present term of office; what disposition, if
                                                  any, has been made of the same; if they have been
                                                  disposed of either permanently or temporarily; to
                                                  what person or persons they have been so disposed
                                                  of; the time at which they were so disposed of;
                                                  the whole number of arms and whole amount of
                                                  munitions of war that each person or persons has
                                                  received, and for what purpose each person or
                                                  persons received the same.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY
                                          Addressed to appropriate committees, were offered, read
                                                and severally adopted, to-wit:
                                          By Mr. HUMPHREYS, whether the Bank of the State of
                                                Indiana has not violated its charter by refusing to
                                                redeem its notes in specie.

                                          

                                          By Mr. PACKARD, whether the Bank of the State has not
                                                forfeited its charter by redeeming its notes with
                                                United States Treasury notes instead of specie.
                                          By Mr. JOHNSON, what legislation is necessary to
                                                protect the interests of volunteers or their widows
                                                in lands sold by the Sinking Fund Commissioners, and
                                                whether one year should be granted them for
                                                redemption.
                                          By Mr. NEWMAN, what legislation is necessary to punish
                                                boys who, while hunting, injure grain stacks and
                                                other private property.
                                          By Mr. WATERMAN, in favor of the passage of a law
                                                requiring tax-payers to make oath to their
                                                assessment lists of personal property.
                                          By Mr. SHAFFER, whether legislation is expedient to
                                                enable county boards to loan money from the county
                                                treasury, to enable the stock holders of unfinished
                                                railroads to complete the same.
                                    
                                    
                                          UNSKILLED SURGEONS.
                                          Mr. PACKARD offered the following, which was
                                                adopted:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  WHEREAS, It is a notorious
                                                  fact that the ignorance, unskillfulness, neglect
                                                  and inhumanity of very many of the Surgeons in
                                                  charge of our Indiana troops, a vast amount of
                                                  suffering, misery and death has been entailed upon
                                                  our brave soldiers in the field; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Military Affairs
                                                  be instructed to inquire if there be not some
                                                  legislation necessary to protect our soldiers from
                                                  these grievous wrongs, and for the future, to
                                                  prevent the appointment of men to that position
                                                  merely for political ends, and without any
                                                  reference to their qualifications or fitness, and
                                                  that they report the same by bill or
                                                  otherwise.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. NIBLACK, [94] to authorize railroads
                                                incorporated in other States, with termini at the
                                                State line, to obtain the right of way in Indiana,
                                                to form a junction with other roads in the
                                                State.
                                          By Mr. McGAUCHEY [95] to fix the time of holding Common
                                                Pleas Courts in the counties of Adams, Allen, Wells
                                                and Huntington.
                                          Read twice under a suspension of the rules.
                                          By Mr. BUDD, [96] to amend the 70th section of the
                                                Appraisement law.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, January 27, 1863.
                              
                              In accordance with the recommendation from the Committee
                                          on Finance, the bill [S. 21] regulating the fees
                                    of officers, was laid on the table.
                              
                                    PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. MARCH, from a select committee, reported back the House
                                          concurrent resolution with regard to the pay of soldiers,
                                          with an amendment reducing the pay of commissioned
                                          officers in such manner as the pay in the several grades
                                          may be more nearly equalized.
                                    Mr. LANDERS opposed the amendment. He favored the resolution
                                          as it came from the House. He objected to burdening the
                                          Treasury of the United States. The amendment was
                                          indefinite, as regards the pay of commissioned
                                          officers.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to amend by striking out of the amendment
                                          all that relates to commissioned officers. He was not
                                          afraid to put himself upon the record. The pay of private
                                          soldiers was always too low, and, in the diluted state of
                                          the currency, the pay of officers is not too high.
                                     Mr. MARCH, The amendment offered by the committee did not
                                          say reduce all grades 25 per cent., but left the amount of
                                          reduction to those who knew better than we do what
                                          reduction in the several grades would be fair and
                                          just.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD opposed the proposition to reduce the pay of
                                          officers. Distinctions must, in the nature of things,
                                          exist in military life. Take the military history of the
                                          world from the time of Julius Caesar down, and you will
                                          find that the stricter the discipline and the more marked
                                          the distinctions between the grades, the more high-toned
                                          and efficient the army. He would be glad, if it was
                                          possible, to raise the pay of soldiers, but that, in the
                                          present state of the Treasury, was impossible, and he
                                          would vote against the whole proposition. He would prefer
                                          to pay what we owed first and then, if we had any to
                                          spare, it could fee expended in the manner proposed. But
                                          in no ease would he favor a reduction of the
                                          officers' pay. He regarded the resolution as a
                                          buncombe one.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. It is true in an army that a soldier is looked
                                          upon as a mere machine, but Senators here should regard
                                          them as men having rights at home, if not in the army. The
                                          reduction of the pay of officers would enable the
                                          government to deal more liberally with the private
                                          soldier, and for that reason he favored the resolution as
                                          it came from the House. Is the class of commissioned
                                          officers in the army the only class who are not to bear
                                          their share of the burdens that fell upon the shoulders of
                                          all classes of the people? Are they alone to be exempt?
                                          The pay of officers has always been out of all proportion
                                          to the services rendered. We hear of these officers now
                                          instead of devising plans to beat the enemy, holding
                                          meetings and passing resolutions denouncing the loyal
                                          citizens of their own State--denouncing members of this
                                          Legislature as a miserable set of "butternuts
                                          " These gentlemen are getting a little too fast
                                          and saucy. They should remember they spring from the
                                          people, and should be taught to attend to their own
                                          business. Bring these men down to a level that will teach
                                          them to attend to their own business, and let  other people attend to
                                          theirs. The same rule holds good in churches. Those
                                          ministers, whose salaries were such as made them rich,
                                          were always meddling where they should not. The purest
                                          preachers were those who were paid the least. He was
                                          opposed to the mere money patriot. Such men as McClellan
                                          and Burnside, and Rosecrans, men who did not fight for
                                          pay, he did not allude to in these remarks. He believed
                                          they, and many others, were far above all sordid aims ;
                                          but there were thousands of leeches hanging on to the army
                                          who were overpaid and their pay should be reduced.
                                    Mr. PLEAK advocated a concurrence with the report of the
                                          committee. His own personal experience as a private
                                          soldier had taught him that the orderly Sergeant was the
                                          most important officer in the company. This officer did
                                          more duty and had more responsibility than a Captain, yet
                                          he received but twenty dollars a mouth. It was a mistaken
                                          idea that a Captain had great pecuniary responsibility.
                                          The arms and equipments were charged to the soldier, and,
                                          if lost, he was the loser, and not the commanding officer.
                                          Lieutenants were often of little utility, but their pay
                                          was nearly six times that of the Orderly Sergeant. He knew
                                          of officers charging for servants that they never bad. The
                                          Sergeant Major did half the duty required of regimental
                                          officers, yet his pay was almost nothing. He was for
                                          changing the rule, and for equalizing the pay in
                                          proportion to the amount of important labor performed.
                                    Mr. MURRAY favored the amendment to the amendment. If that
                                          did not prevail he would vote for the amendment of the
                                          Committee, and if that was lost he would vote for the
                                          House resolution. He did not think as a general rule the
                                          officers entered the service for the sake of making money.
                                          There may be instances, but he thought they were rare. He
                                          wanted the pay of the privates raised at all events He was
                                          happy to see that the majority of the Legislature favored
                                          the increase. It would have a good effect on the army and
                                          the country.
                                     Mr. WHITE favored the amendment to the amendment. The
                                          soldiers from Indiana were intelligent, and calculated
                                          when they entered the service how they were to meet the
                                          expenses. He would, however, favor the increase of pay to
                                          the soldier to meet the increased price or value of
                                          articles. And he would oppose the reduction of the
                                          officer's pay. The officers did not make
                                          themselves. They were chosen by the men themselves, with
                                          the full understanding of the power belonging to the
                                          position and the pay attached to it. There was no division
                                          or brigade or regiment in the service ever petitioned to
                                          have the pay of the officers reduced. He would he always
                                          be willing to vote to increase the pay of gallant soldiers
                                          led by gallant men.
                                    Mr. MARCH read the resolutions adopted at Murfreesboro.
                                    Mr. HORD said the reading of those resolutions would
                                          determine his vote. As those officers had been so
                                          magnanimous as to agree to support the war out of their
                                          own private means, he would not favor a redaction of their
                                          pay.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY said there was a long list of Major Generals and
                                          other officers of high rank who were not doing any
                                          military service, and the principle of reduction of pay
                                          should apply to this class. Such officers as were engaged
                                          in active service should not have their pay touched, and
                                          the soldiers should have their pay increased. It might be
                                          an act of bad faith for Government to reduce the pay of
                                          officers below the amount stipulated when they entered the
                                          service. He offered an amendment so as to favor a
                                          reduction of the pay of all officers not having any
                                          command, or who are unnecessarily absent form the r
                                          command.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL accepted the amendment. He said that while there
                                          seemed to be a spirit existing among legislators to cut
                                          down army expenses, they had shown no disposition to
                                          economize our own legislative expenses. The pay of pages,
                                          doorkeepers and clerks was greater than that of some
                                          commissioned officers. Entrenchment should commence in the
                                          civil offices at home. While patriotism prompted many to
                                          enter the service, it was no reason that these should
                                          leave a family at home unsupported. Civil officers at home
                                          received more pay in proportion to the amount of ability
                                          required or labor performed, to say nothing of their
                                          freedom from any risk of life, than some of our officers
                                          of the highest grade.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS thought this was all a great fuss about nothing.
                                          He did not think our action here would effect much.
                                          Perhaps if it was known that this was an expression coming
                                          from the people of Indiana, Congress might pay attention
                                          to it. Imputations had been made in the public press and
                                          elsewhere that the Democratic party would impair the
                                          efficiency of the army. Resolutions had been passed in the
                                          army, and they had been trumpeted about as coming from
                                          Democratic officers, to show that Democrats, as a party,
                                          were flouted at by these resolutions He would take one of
                                          these officers from his District (Col. Gooding) to show
                                          what labor it took to make a Brigadier General, That man
                                          sold whisky for twenty years, pretended to vote the
                                          Democratic ticket, out bolted, nominations whenever he
                                          could make anything by it, got behind a stump at the
                                          battle of Perryville, and finally, to cap the climax, came
                                          home and whipped his wife. He instanced other officers
                                          from his District who were elevated from the lower depths
                                          to high military commissions. It was these men who were
                                          getting up strife  in
                                          the army, a strife that would demoralize it. It was wrong,
                                          and should be discountenanced. One of these army
                                          resolutions was to put down traitors at home. Who were the
                                          traitors? Were they the Democratic party? That party had
                                          done as much as any other to sustain the country. Morton
                                          Hunter was another man held up to create derision in the
                                          country and the army. These men stigmatize a large portion
                                          of people of their State as Copperheads and Butternuts. He
                                          stigmatized such men as cowards and slanderers. He warned
                                          gentlemen to cease such work. There might be danger at
                                          home if it was continued. Gentlemen here sometimes talk
                                          well, but has any of them denounced the leading organ of
                                          their party in Cincinnati, or their organ here, for their
                                          continued and foul denunciations of the Democratic party
                                          as traitors?
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD deprecated the use of the army as a political
                                          machine, but the expressions of the army at Murfreesboro,
                                          as embodied in the resolutions referred to, contained
                                          nothing of a political nature. They were expressions that
                                          he trusted every Senator would endorse.
                                    Mr. COBB said that the question of a reduction of the
                                          salaries of civil officers was not before the Senate, but
                                          that of military officers was, and, for one, he believed
                                          in so changing the pay as to secure an increase of
                                          compensation to the private soldier and reduction of that
                                          of officers. The distinction between the pay of the two
                                          classes was too great, and he was for a change that would,
                                          taking into consideration the duties performed by each,
                                          more nearly equalize their compensation. As to the
                                          officers' meeting referred to, he claimed that
                                          the legislators at home had better opportunities of
                                          judging of the wishes and wants of the country, and
                                          understood their own duties better than the officers who,
                                          from home, are engaged in suppressing an unholy rebellion.
                                          When these officers attempt to direct the Legislature
                                          here, they neglect their duty, the duty they are paid for,
                                          and interfere with what does not belong to them. They
                                          should be treated with deserved contempt. It was evident
                                          that there was a disposition on the part of the Republican
                                          press and politicians to make the Democratic party appear
                                          a treasonable organization. The organs of the Democratic
                                          party never reach the army, and the vile papers of the
                                          Republican party were heaped full of slanders to mislead
                                          and deceive the army in the field. But the private
                                          soldiers were not fools, and would wait for the facts. The
                                          Journal, of this city, gives aid and comfort to Jeff.
                                          Davis and the traitors in arms by it's
                                          classification of parties on this floor.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL. How does the Sentinel classify Republicans in
                                          the other House? Does it not call them Abolitionists.
                                    Mr. COBB I don't care how that paper classes them,
                                          but for myself I call all those who indorse the
                                          President's Proclamation Abolitionists. He could
                                          make nothing of such but unadulterated Abolitionists.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD. Suppose members vote for abolishing the Common
                                          Pleas Court, are they Abolitionists?
                                    Mr. COBB. They are in that sense. He would in every vote he
                                          gave support the resolutions as they came from the
                                          House.
                                    Mr. MELLETT contended that it was a mistaken idea that
                                          officers could make money out of their salaries, and he
                                          would never vote to reduce the pay of those who wore
                                          shoulder-straps as a mark for rebel sharpshooters, and who
                                          had wives and children at home to be cared for. But he
                                          would favor an increase of the pay of soldiers. Things had
                                          been said and written in Indiana by men who remained at
                                          home enjoying all the luxuries of life that were
                                          treasonable, and it was proper that those who bore the
                                          brunt of battle in defence of their country should speak
                                          in condemnation of such treasonable actions.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Johnston in the chair) was sorry that
                                          Murfreesboro resolutions had been introduced into the
                                          Senate. But he would say that if those resolutions were
                                          intended as an intimidation, they would fail. There was
                                          nothing in the conduct of the Legislature to justify any
                                          such expressions on the part of the officers at
                                          Murfreesboro as would imply a lack of loyalty on the part
                                          of the majority. These false imputations upon the
                                          Democratic party existed only in the imaginations of men.
                                          They had no foundation in fact. The man who would seek to
                                          intimidate the great Democratic party of Indiana, or its
                                          people, had better understand them. He thought the cheeks
                                          of these gentlemen would tingle with shame when they read
                                          the resolutions of the Senate thanking the army of General
                                          Rosecrans and thanking Governor Morton for his care of the
                                          sick and wounded soldiers--Where was the evidence of
                                          treason in the Senate? Was it in passing the bills that
                                          had passed? There was no other definite action taken. He
                                          thought this discussion was all wrong, and he should have
                                          checked it when it run off from the question under
                                          consideration. He only rose to speak of Colonel Hunter,
                                          who was his neighbor. 
                                    Mr. SHIELDS and Mr. COBB both disclaimed casting any
                                          imputation on the character of Colonel Hunter.
                                    Mr. DUNNING understood that. He simply as a neighbor, wished
                                          to say that Colonel Hutner, in his private relations, was
                                          a high-toned gentleman, but as a politician he was an
                                          intense and bitter partisan. it had been published to the
                                          world that he (Hunter) was a Democrat and it had been so
                                          published for effect. He simply wished to correct this
                                          impression.

                                    

                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, said that the Murfreesboro
                                          resolutions had been discussed as though they contained
                                          imputations of disloyalty upon the Legislature of the
                                          State. Such was not the case. The Legislature was not
                                          referred to, nor was there any reproach cast upon any
                                          political party. As to the question before the Senate, he
                                          was in favor of increasing the pay of soldiers, and
                                          reducing that of officers, because there was too much
                                          discrepancy between the pay of each. He believed that the
                                          patriotism of the officers would induce them to submit to
                                          a reduction of their pay.
                                    Mr. WOLFE said that the remarks mace by him were called out
                                          by the newspaper reports that accompanied the Murfreesboro
                                          resolutions, and not by the resolutions themselves. There
                                          was nothing objectionable in them as far as he could see
                                          now. He was informed by persons who were with the army at
                                          the time these resolutions were said to have passed, that
                                          they did not believe that any such meeting as that
                                          represented was ever held. He believed, when the truth was
                                          known, it would be found that a few persons got together
                                          over a bottle of champaign, and made and passed the
                                          resolutions. The whole matter had caused more discussion
                                          than it should have done.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. WOLFE moved to lay Mr. Claypool's amendment on
                                          the table.
                                    On motion by Mr. MURRAY, further consideration of the
                                          question was postponed till to-morrow.
                                    
                                          CONGRESSIONAL APPORTIONMENT.
                                          On motion by Mr. RAY, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That a select
                                                  committee of one from each Congressional District
                                                  be appointed on the part of the Senate to act with
                                                  a like Committee to be appointed on the part of
                                                  the House, to prepare and present to the Senate an
                                                  Apportionment Bill districting the State for
                                                  Representatives in the Congress of the United
                                                  States.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          THE FEDERAL TAX.
                                          On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on federal Relations
                                                  be instructed to inquire into the expediency of
                                                  the State of Indiana demanding of the General
                                                  Government the right and privilege of collecting
                                                  and paying over the amount of all Federal taxes
                                                  that are now levied, or may hereafter be levied on
                                                  this State, in her own way, under her own laws,
                                                  and by her own State and county officers, and
                                                  report by bill or otherwise.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                          Mr. WOLFE introduced a joint resolution [3], which was
                                                passed to the second reading.
                                          It is as follows:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  WHEREAS, The present civil
                                                  war into which the people have been forced by the
                                                  wicked and fanatical factions North and South, is
                                                  detrimental to the best interest of the country
                                                  and of mankind, and a reproach upon the
                                                  civilization of the age--filling the land with
                                                  widows and orphans and mourning house holds;
                                                  bankrupting the Government and oppressing the
                                                  people with taxation beyond their ability to bear;
                                                  destroying the productive industry of the laboring
                                                  man and filling the coffers of the wealthy filling
                                                  the Northern section of the Union with a vagabond
                                                  and servile race to compete with or prey upon the
                                                  industry of the white man ; imposing unequal
                                                  burdens and commercial restrictions upon the
                                                  different portions of the North, thereby
                                                  increasing the danger and the evil of further
                                                  disintegration ; sapping the foundation of
                                                  religion, morality and public virtue ; corrupting
                                                  our rulers by an increase of political patronage ;
                                                  destroying personal liberty under the
                                                  tyrant's plea of necessity ; and
                                                  obliterating from the hearts of the people the
                                                  spirit of nationality and brotherhood, which is
                                                  the only sure bond of union ; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, Experience has
                                                  taught the costly and bloody lesson, that war
                                                  alone is no remedy for the evil of disunion, but
                                                  when waged in the spirit of sectional hatred, for
                                                  an unconstitutional purpose, or in a manner not
                                                  sanctioned by the laws of civilized warfare, it is
                                                  the strongest ally of disunion, and if persisted
                                                  in will result, not only in the bankruptcy of the
                                                  nation and the impoverishment of the people, but
                                                  also in a final separation of the different
                                                  sections and the destruction of our admirable form
                                                  of free government; and
                                                  WHEREAS, The people of
                                                  Indiana are desirous that no effort which inspires
                                                  a reasonable hope of success in restoring the
                                                  Union as it was under the Constitution, shall be
                                                  omitted ; and being solemnly impressed with the
                                                  conviction that arms alone, under the recent and
                                                  present policy of the Cabinet at Washington, will
                                                  never accomplish that desirable object; and
                                                  invoking the prayers of all good men and the
                                                  smiles of a God of Peace in the furtherance of our
                                                  patriotic purpose ; therefore,
                                                  Be, it resolved by the General
                                                  Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                                                  
                                                  That while we will continue to obey
                                                  every constitutional requisition which true
                                                  patriotism shall demand, for the purpose of
                                                  restoring the Union and preserving our
                                                  constitutional liberty, yet we are opposed to a
                                                  war for the liberation of the slaves ; and, while
                                                  that policy is maintained by the Administration,
                                                  the highest dictates of patriotism impel us to
                                                  withhold from it our support; believing that a war
                                                  for that purpose is unconstitutional, and a wicked
                                                  usurpation, and, if persisted in, will lead to the
                                                  inevitable and lasting destruction of the
                                                  Union.
                                                  That no Union can be maintained in
                                                  this country until fanaticism on the negro
                                                  question, North and South, is eradicated, and the
                                                  doctrine of Popular State Sovereignty is
                                                  acknowledged as a fundamental axiom of the
                                                  Government. The people of the North must yield up
                                                  the heresy of Abolitionism, or else yield up the
                                                  blessings of the Union. Abolitionism and the Union
                                                  are incompatible ; the one or the other must
                                                  triumph. A war for Abolitionism is war against the
                                                  Union; a war for the Union is a war against
                                                  Abolitionism. Abolitionism is moral treason, and
                                                  but for the forms of law with which it is clothed
                                                  by the Administration, is actual, legal treason.
                                                  No patriot can be an Abolitionist.
                                                  That the interest of the white race,
                                                  as well as the black, demands that the condition
                                                  and locality of the latter should not be
                                                  interfered with; and a war, or legislation, or
                                                  Presidential Proclamations to accomplish the
                                                  purpose of the negroes freedom and consequent
                                                  migration to the North, are acts of flagrant
                                                  violation of the Constitution, and in wicked
                                                  disregard of the people's voice and the
                                                  best interests of the country, and all such acts
                                                  ought to be constitutionally resisted by an
                                                  outraged people.
                                                  That President Lincoln's
                                                  scheme of "Compensated
                                                  Emancipation," which proposes to tax the
                                                  people of Indiana to liberate the slaves of the
                                                  South, is unconstitutional, and a monstrous
                                                  iniquity, which a tax-ridden and over-burdened
                                                  people will not submit to. The freemen of Indiana
                                                  will not consent to impoverish themselves and
                                                  their families to carry it that insane and wicked
                                                  policy, but will resist is by every constitutional
                                                  means in their power.
                                                  That the system of arbitrary arrests,
                                                  and the wanton disregard of the Great Writ of
                                                  Liberty, commonly called the habeas corpus, by the
                                                  Cabinet at Washington, are acts of tyranny and
                                                  usurpation, justly alarming to a free people,
                                                  against which the State of Indiana protests with
                                                  indignation ; and in  the name of
                                                  constitutional liberty she demands that the
                                                  accursed system shall cease within her borders ;
                                                  and we declare the unalterable determination of
                                                  the people to maintain the liberty of speech, the
                                                  liberty of the press, the right to the writ of
                                                  habeas corpus and speedy trial by jury, at every
                                                  hazard of blood and treasure.
                                                  That the State of Indiana, on account
                                                  of her devotion to the Union, and her geographical
                                                  position and commercial interest, never will
                                                  consent to any settlement upon a basis of disunion
                                                  or a policy which shall separate her from the
                                                  States bordering upon the Mississippi river. Her
                                                  highest interest demands the perpetuation of the
                                                  Union, and especially that the Great Valley of the
                                                  Mississippi from its source to its mouth shall
                                                  remain under one government and one flag.
                                                  That the war in which we are engaged
                                                  ought to cease as soon as it can be brought to an
                                                  honorable and satisfactory termination ; and upon
                                                  that sublet the people, who are bearing its
                                                  burdens, have a right to speak. Therefore, our
                                                  Senators in Congress are instructed, and our
                                                  Representatives requested to use all the power and
                                                  influence of their positions, by bill, resolution,
                                                  or otherwise, to accomplish the following objects,
                                                  viz ; 1. To procure an armistice of at least six
                                                  months, between the Federal and Confederate
                                                  armies, for the purpose of testing the probability
                                                  of a permanent peace on the basis of the Union. 2.
                                                  To pass a law calling a Convention of all the
                                                  States, composed of delegates freely chosen by the
                                                  people, to take into consideration the state of
                                                  the country, and to devise some plan of settlement
                                                  to be submitted to a vote of the people North and
                                                  South, by which the Union shall be preserved, and
                                                  the country restored to a lasting peace.
                                                  That the Governor be directed to
                                                  transmit a certified copy of the foregoing
                                                  preamble and resolutions to each of our Senators
                                                  and Representatives in Congress, to be laid before
                                                  their respective bodies ; and to the Governors of
                                                  each of the States, to be by them laid before
                                                  their respective Legislatures.
                                                  
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          LEGISLATIVE APPORTIONMENT.
                                          On motion by Mr. RAY, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That a select
                                                  committee of one from each Congressional District
                                                  be appointed on the part of the Senate to act with
                                                  a like committee to be appointed on the part of
                                                  the House to prepare and present to the Senate an
                                                  Apportionment Bill districting the State for State
                                                  Senators and Representatives in the General
                                                  Assembly.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed to the second
                                                reading:
                                          By Mr. DICKINSON, [48] erecting the 14th Judicial
                                                Circuit, and attaching the county of Huntington to
                                                the 10th Judicial Circuit.
                                           By Mr. BRADLEY, [49] relative to the school tax levied
                                                upon corporations, and providing the manner of
                                                distribution and loaning of the same, and other
                                                matters properly connected therewith.
                                          By Mr. WRIGHT, [50] for the relief of John B. Redd.
                                          By Mr WILLIAMS, [51] to amend the 21 section of an act
                                                relative to the salaries of public officers,
                                                approved March 5 1859.
                                          By Mr. MARCH, [52] to amend the 55th section of an act
                                                to amend an act to authorize and regulate the
                                                business of general banking, passed March 3,
                                                855.
                                          By Mr. CULVER, [53] to amend the 1st section of an act
                                                to amend the 6th section of an act providing for the
                                                organization of County Boards, approved Jan. 17,
                                                1862, which latter act was approved Feb 1861.
                                          By Mr. CLAYPOOL, [54] to amend the 8th section of an
                                                act dividing the State into counties, approved June
                                                7, 1852.
                                          By Mr. HORD, [55] to amend the 4th section of an act
                                                authorizing Recorders to make out complete or
                                                general indexes, approved February 16, 1852, as
                                                amended by an act approved February 14, 1855.
                                          By Mr. MARCH, [; 6] regulating the bequeathing,
                                                devising and conveying property for religious and
                                                charitable purposes.
                                          By Mr. CULVER, [57] to allow County Commissioners to
                                                organize turnpike companies when a majority of
                                                persons representing the real estate within
                                                prescribed limits petition for the same, and levy a
                                                tax for its construction, and provide for the same
                                                to be free.
                                          By Mr. DICKINSON, [58] to amend an act to authorize the
                                                Boards of Commissioners and the authorities of any
                                                incorporate city or town to make appropriations in
                                                certain cases, approved May 11, 1861, so as to
                                                authorize said Boards to make appropriations for
                                                bounties for volunteers, disinterring,
                                                transportation, and interring the bodies of deceased
                                                soldiers, and erecting monuments to their
                                                memories.
                                          By Mr. MARCH, [59] fixing the amount of fees to be paid
                                                in the State Treasury for the services of the
                                                Auditor and Secretary of State in certain cases,
                                                repealing all laws in conflict therewith, and
                                                amending the 4th section of an act supplemental to
                                                the swamp land act, approved June 14, 1852.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          Senate bills 42. 44, and 46 (introduce on Saturday)
                                                were read the second time and referred to
                                                appropriate committees.
                                          Mr. Beeson's County Auditors' bill
                                                [45] was ordered engrossed for a third reading.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, January 27, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. GRIFFITH submitted the following protest, and asked that it be
                                    spread upon the journals of the House :
                              The undersigned, members of this House, beg leave to offer the
                                    following protest against the passage of the resolution
                                    embodying a memorial from the Legislature of Indiana to the
                                    Legislature of New York, for the following reasons :
                              Said memorial contains not only matter of commercial nature,
                                    respecting freight and transportation of merchandise, but also
                                    sentiments and expressions believed by the undersigned to be not
                                    only foreign to the subject matter of said memorial, but also
                                    politically unwise and incorrect in conclusion, and not
                                    endorsed, and should not be, by this General Assembly,
                              The undersigned beg leave to urgently protest against and dissent
                                    from the expression of sentiment contained in the latter part of
                                    said memorial, which are contained in the following words :
                              "So long as such States as your's (meaning the
                                    State of New York) battle with equal zeal against anarchy among
                                    the members of the government and the centralized monopoly of
                                    power in the hands of its Executive, you have our earnest
                                    sympathy."
                              If this language is meant to convey an abstract protest against
                                    despotic power, all citizens of this Republic might agree
                                    therewith. 

                              

                              If on the other hand, it is a political volley fired by a
                                    Democratic battery at the President of the United States, and
                                    designed to convey the impression that our present National
                                    Administration is, in theory and practice despotic, and
                                    deliberately purposes to take from any State, or from the
                                    people, any rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the United
                                    States, we respectfully dissent from that part of the memorial,
                                    being well assured that the Chicago Platform, upon which the
                                    present National Administration was carried into power, did
                                    honestly convey to the public mind the sentiments and purposes
                                    of the party now in power, wherein it declares "that
                                    the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States, and
                                    especially the right of each State to order and control its own
                                    domestic institutions according to its own judgment exclusively,
                                    is essential to that balance of power on which the perfection
                                    and endurance of our political fabric depends."
                              Further, we also believe and assert that the present National
                                    Administration has endeavored to seek not only the restoration
                                    of the Union and the supremacy of the constitution, but also the
                                    maintenance of all States' rights, in proof of which we
                                    call attention to the language of the President of the United
                                    States, in his memorable letter to Horace Greeley, wherein he
                                    declared that "his paramount object was to restore the
                                    Union in the shortest way under the Constitution. * * * To save
                                    it without touching slavery at all. On the other hand, to save
                                    it, if it became necessary in so doing, by freeing a part
                                    therefor to save it by freeing all the slaves." The
                                    restoration of the Union being thus the Alpha and the Omega of
                                    the desire of the President.
                              Now, if it be the purpose of the memorial to charge upon the
                                    Executive of the United States centralized monopoly of power in
                                    the hands of the Executive" because of political
                                    arrests, or the issuance of the proclamation, we respectfully
                                    submit the following extracts from a speech of James Buchanan in
                                    the United States Senate, upon the bill indemnifying General
                                    Andrew Jackson for a fine assessed by Judge Hall upon him by
                                    reason of the declaration of martial law at New Orleans by
                                    General Jackson, as pertinent now :
                              The language of Mr. Buchanan is as follows :
                              " We did not contend, strictly speaking, that General
                                    Jackson had any constitutional right to declare martial law at
                                    New Orleans.
                              "It had never been contended on this floor that a military
                                    commander possessed the power under the Constitution of the
                                    United States to declare martial law.
                              " We placed the argument not upon the ground of strict
                                    constitutional right, but of such an overruling necessity as
                                    left General Jackson no alternative between the establishment of
                                    martial law or the sacrifice of New Orleans to the rapine and
                                    lust of the British soldiery.
                              " In the history of every nation at war, cases might occur
                                    of such extreme and overpowering necessity, that in order to
                                    eave the country a military commander might be compelled to
                                    resort to the establishment of martial law.
                              "The following extract from a minority report made upon
                                    the same subject by Robert J. Walker, bears upon the subject
                                    matter of the memorial, and at this period is well worthy of
                                    attention. Mr. Walker uses the following forcible and explicit
                                    language :
                              " The majority, in the opinion of the undersigned,
                                    arraigns the conduct of General Jackson as subversive of the
                                    Constitution of the United States. The undersigned submits that
                                    in time of war and imminent public danger it may be the duty of
                                    the military commander to arrest those regarded as traitors,
                                    spies, or mutineers within the limits of his camp.
                              "The law which justified the act was the great law of
                                    necessity ; it was the law of defence, of self, home, and of
                                    country, and never was designed to be abrogated by any statute,
                                    or by any constitution.
                              " The same overruling necessity which justified the arrest
                                    would require the detention of the prisoner until the emergency
                                    had passed."
                              Now your protestants submit that, if there ever was a great,
                                    overpowering necessity in order to save the country, does it not
                                    now exist in the strongest and most ample sense? Did imminent
                                    public danger so overwhelming and portentous ever before
                                    threaten our country?
                              Suggesting to this honorable body, and the rest of mankind, the
                                    parallel state of circumstances, the great overruling necessity
                                    of the present, as well an of the past, we ask the question in
                                    candor, if the doctrines and sentiments quoted from the highest
                                    Democratic authority of the recent past is not applicable to the
                                    tremendous emergencies of this hour?
                              For these, and other reasons, we protest against the memorial, or
                                    that part of it quoted in this protest, and we hereby, not only
                                    by the doctrines of the past, but by the memories thereof also,
                                    call upon every citizen of this once prosperous, but now
                                    agonized and bleeding nation, to stand shoulder to shoulder in
                                    upholding the tottering temple of Liberty, in strengthening the
                                    hands and hearts cf the rightful authorities of the State and
                                    nation, in saying to the spirit of anarchy in our midst, peace--be still; and thereby hastening the
                                    advent of peace and hope and union upon this, our beloved, but
                                    weeping and distracted country.
                              Let us one and all, endeavor to save a nation which has been, and
                                    we hope ever will be, a beacon light to the world, and the
                                    custodian of the ark of civil and religious liberty.
                              
                                    Francis P. Griffith,
                                    Oliver T. Jones,
                                    W. H. Kendrick,
                                    John A. Moorman,
                                    L. A. Cass,
                                    James O'Brien,
                                    E. B. Noyes,
                                    S. Hostetter,
                                     A. Anderson,
                                    James Forrester,
                                    D. C. Branham,
                                    A. Kilgore,
                                    John L. Roe,
                                    Paris Robinson,
                                    E B. Newman,
                                    C. Budd,
                                    Israel Woodruff,
                                    H. James,
                                    Tim Baker,
                                    John L. Stone,
                                    D. R. VanBuskirk,
                                    J. Marshall,
                                    H. J. Byerle,
                                    J. J. Johnson,
                                    B. F. Gregory,
                                    Charles D. Morgan,
                                    Samuel Mustard,
                                    R. B. Perry,
                                    J. M. Hershey,
                                    Amos Davis,
                                    Robert N. Lamb,
                                    J. M. Leeds,
                                    D. K. Pettibone.
                              
                              A report from the Committee on Rights and
                                          Privileges, recommending that the landlord and
                                    tenant bill [H. R.16] lie on the table, was concurred in.
                              
                                    GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                    On motion by Mr. BROWN, the communication from the Governor,
                                          having referred to the non-delivery of his biennial
                                          message, was taken from the table and referred to a select
                                          committee of five. It was but just to the majority on this
                                          floor that His Excellency's arguments relative to
                                          the pretended delivery of his message should be sifted and
                                          replied to.
                                    Messrs. Brown, Hanna, Branham, Given, and Tarkington were
                                          appointed said committee.
                              
                              
                                    JOINT RESOLUTIONS
                                    Were introduced, read the first time, and severally passed to
                                          tile second reading. to-wit:
                                    By Mr. PUETT, [21] as to what is known as the Morrill Tariff.
                                          It is a measure of great injustice to the people of the
                                          Middle and Northwestern States. It was a sectional law,
                                          accruing in benefits to New England manufactures; and
                                          instructing Senators and Representatives relative to its
                                          modification.
                                    By Mr. ROBERTS, [22] a joint resolution relating to works of
                                          Internal Improve- 
                                          ment by the General Government, as follows :
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved by the Senate and House
                                                  of Representatives of the State of Indiana,
                                                  That in the present embarrassed condition of the
                                                  national finances the appropriation of large sums
                                                  of money for Internal Improvements, not
                                                  immediately necessary for the national defence, is
                                                  unwise, inexpedient and ruinous to the public
                                                  credit; therefore, we do earnestly protest against
                                                  the appropriation of money by the Congress of the
                                                  United States for the construction of a Ship Canal
                                                  in the State of Illinois, and the enlargement of
                                                  canals in the State of New York, measures now
                                                  pending before Congress, or for any other purpose
                                                  not absolutely necessary for the present
                                                  exigencies of the General Government.
                                                  Resolved, That our Senators
                                                  in Congress be instructed, and our Representatives
                                                  requested, to use all their power and influence to
                                                  defeat the measures of Internal Improvement
                                                  aforesaid, and all other measures of a kindred
                                                  character, and to protest in the name of the
                                                  people of Indiana against increasing the national
                                                  debt by works designed for local or general
                                                  commerce, on pretence of "military
                                                  necessity," or the national defence.
                                                  Resolved, That the Governor
                                                  be requested to transmit a copy of these
                                                  resolutions to each of our Senators and
                                                  Representatives in Congress, with the request that
                                                  the same be laid before their respective
                                                  Houses.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, [23] instructing Senators and requesting
                                          Representatives in Congress to favor the passage of a law
                                          permitting State revenue officials to collect Federal
                                          taxes.
                                    By Mr. GREGORY, [24] instructing and requesting Senators and
                                          Representatives in Congress from Indiana to provide more
                                          effectually for sick and wounded soldiers.
                                    By Mr. HOLCOMB, [25] instructing our Senators to oppose the
                                          emancipation schemes of President Lincoln, as follows : 
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, by the House of
                                                  Representatives, the Senate concurring, That our
                                                  United States Senators be, and they are hereby,
                                                  instructed to oppose to the utmost of their
                                                  abilities by all fair and honorable means, the
                                                  passage by Congress of any bill or resolution
                                                  having for its object the levying of any tax or
                                                  duty upon the property of the loyal citizens of
                                                  the United States, for the purpose of paying for
                                                  slaves voluntarily or forcibly emancipated
                                                  anywhere. And in every other way to oppose the
                                                  emancipation schemes of President Lincoln.
                                                  Resolved, further,That if our
                                                  Senators, or either of them, cannot
                                                  conscientiously vote and act in accordance with
                                                  these instructions, that they are respectfully
                                                  requested to resign their seats in the United
                                                  States Senate, in order that they may be filled by
                                                  men who will obey the voice and reflect the will
                                                  of the people of the State of Indiana.
                                                  Resolved, That the Clerk of
                                                  this House be instructed to forward a copy of
                                                  these resolutions to each of our Senators after
                                                  their adoption by both Houses, with the least
                                                  possible delay.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    A LEGISLATIVE VISIT.
                                    Mr. BREGAN offered the following :
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, (the Senate
                                                  concurring) That a committee consisting of three
                                                  members of the Senate and three members of the
                                                  House, be appointed by their respective bodies, to
                                                  correspond with any committee that may be
                                                  appointed by the Legislatures of the States of
                                                  Illinois and Kentucky, wish regard to existing
                                                  difficulties in the country. And that such
                                                  committee be authorized to visit the Legislatures
                                                  of the States of Illinois or Kentucky, if in their
                                                  judgment they can thereby better ascertain the
                                                  sentiments and views of the same; and endeavor, if
                                                  practicable, to secure uniformity of action
                                                  between this General Assembly and the Legislatures
                                                  of said States in relation to the political
                                                  condition of the country.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. ANDERSON moved that the resolution be rejected.
                                    The SPEAKER decided the motion out of order.
                                    It was not parliamentary with regard to a resolution.
                                    Mr. WOOLLEN offered the following .
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, It is desirable
                                                  that no opportunity shall be lost to cement the
                                                  bonds of Union which subsist between the loyal
                                                  States ; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The Legislatures of
                                                  Ohio, Kentucky and Illinois are now in session,
                                                  consulting upon the common good, and all have an
                                                  equal interest in maintaining the Union and
                                                  preserving the constitution ; and,
                                                  WHEREAS, Free intercourse
                                                  between those bodies might contribute to a more
                                                  perfect friendship, and restore the era of good
                                                  feeling which once existed; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, by the House of
                                                  Representatives, the Senate concurring, That
                                                  the Legislatures of the said States of Ohio,
                                                  Kentucky, and Illinois be Invited to meet the
                                                  Legislature of Indiana, at Louisville, on the 22d
                                                  of February next, there to exchange views upon the
                                                  condition of our common country, cultivate our
                                                  relations of friendship and good feeling, and
                                                  renew our united devotion to the old Union, the
                                                  old Constitution, and the old flag.
                                                  Resolved, That His Excellency
                                                  the Governor be requested to transmit these
                                                  resolutions to the Governors of the States named,
                                                  with a request that they lay the same before their
                                                  respective Legislatures,
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading :
                                    By Mr. GREGORY, [97] to repeal the act establishing courts of
                                          conciliation.
                                    By Mr. PETTIBONE, [98] to legalize the sale of certain
                                          Congressional School lands.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, [09] to re-enact the 238th section of the
                                          Practice Act.
                                    By Mr. BURTON, [100] to amend the 21st and 24th sections of
                                          the act regulating opening of highways.
                                    By Mr. GIVEN, [101] to amend section 1 of the act limiting
                                          the jurisdiction of Justices in regard to assaults.
                                    By Mr. WOOLLEN, [102] to fix the exemption from military duty
                                          on account of conscientious scruples at $300, retroacting
                                          on those exempted in 1862.
                                    By Mr. NOTES, [103] to amend the property exemption act.
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, [104] to amend the road law.
                                    By Mr. O'BRIEN, of Hamilton, [105] to regulate the
                                          salaries of the several State officers.
                                    By Mr. CASS, [106] to amend the act to encourage the
                                          destruction of wolves.
                                    The 20th Judicial Court bill [3. 47] was read the first
                                          time.
                                    Senate bills 6 and 10 (see pages 44 and 47) were read the
                                          second time.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    House bills 94 and 95 (introduced yesterday) were read the
                                          second time and appropriately referred.
                              

                              

                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The joint resolution [H. R. 6] printed on page 54 of the
                                          Brevier Reports, respecting the discrimination in favor of
                                          Massachusetts over Indiana in the matter of the draft was
                                          read the second time.
                                    Mr. LAMB moved to refer it to a special committee to inquire
                                          as to the truth of the preamble, as he understood that
                                          Massachusetts had as many men in the service as
                                          Indiana.
                                    On motion by Mr. ROBERTS the motion was laid on the
                                          table.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON moved to refer to the Committee on
                                                Federal Relations, with instructions to
                                          inquire into the truth of the preamble.
                                    Mr. HANNA maintained the fairness and necessity of the
                                          resolution, in order that Indiana valor and Indiana love
                                          of our old institutions, exemplified by promptly rallying
                                          around the flag upon the call of the President,might be
                                          shown to the world and , also the partiality of the powers
                                          that be with reference to the New England State in this
                                          regard.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON was desirous that nothing should be done to
                                          excite animosity between different States. He was opposed
                                          to the passage of resolutions which assumed unfairness and
                                          injustice on the part of the Government without permitting
                                          investigation. He moved an amendment, which was pronounced
                                          by the Speaker as out of order.
                                    On motion by Mr. ROBERTS the motion to refer was laid on the
                                          table--yeas 54, nays 36. (A party vote.)
                                    Mr. GREGORY moved to strike out the words "rigidly
                                          and mercilessly" in reference to the enforcement
                                          of the draft.
                                    On motion by Mr. KEMP, of Vigo, the amendment was laid on the
                                          table--yeas 55, nays 35.
                                    Mr. JONES moved to refer the resolution to the
                                                committee on Military
                                          Affairs.
                                    On motion by Mr. BROWN the motion was laid on the table.
                                    The joint resolution was then ordered engrossed for the third
                                          reading.
                                    The joint resolution [H. R. 7] against the
                                          President's emancipation proclamation, was read
                                          the second time and referred to the Committee on
                                                Federal Relations.
                                    
                                          NATIONAL CONVENTION.
                                          The joint resolution [H. R. 8] in favor of a National
                                                Convention &c., was read the second
                                                time.
                                          It is in the words following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  WHEREAS, Our fathers formed
                                                  the Union of the States upon principles of peace,
                                                  conciliation and compromise and a just regard to
                                                  the rights of all the States and people; and
                                                  WHEREAS, By a departure from
                                                  these principles, as is alleged, civil strife and
                                                  hatred have ensued, and do now exist among those
                                                  who ought to be regarded as friends and brethren;
                                                  and
                                                  WHEREAS, It has been found
                                                  that those invested with official authority in the
                                                  various sections are, from certain restrictions
                                                  and necessities, inadequate to compose these
                                                  differences and avert these disasters; and
                                                  WHEREAS, FURTHER, The people
                                                  are the only rightful authority upon which all
                                                  just government depend; and
                                                  WHEREAS, ALSO, The people of
                                                  these States are being subjected to great burthens
                                                  and calamities on account of the present civil
                                                  strife; therefore be it
                                                  Resolved, by the General Assembly
                                                  of the State of Indiana, That the people of
                                                  all the States be and they are hereby invited to
                                                  meet the people of Indiana in National Convention,
                                                  to be held at the City of Louisville, in the State
                                                  of Kentucky, on the fourth day of July next, to
                                                  take into consideration such measures as may best
                                                  promote peace among the people and union among the
                                                  States.
                                                  And be it further Resolved,
                                                  That for the purpose of aiding the objects
                                                  aforesaid, his Excellency the President of the
                                                  United States be and he is hereby respectfully and
                                                  earnestly requested to causes hostilities between
                                                  the Federal Government and the people of any of
                                                  the States to cease from and after the first
                                                  Monday in April, until the first day of August
                                                  next, should the same be compatible with the
                                                  public safety.
                                                  And be it further Resolved,
                                                  That the legal voters of each District assigned by
                                                  law for the election of a member or members of the
                                                  House of Representatives of the General Assembly
                                                  of this State, be and they are hereby requested to
                                                  meet in their respective townships in said
                                                  Districts, at the usual places of holding
                                                  elections, on the first Monday of April next, and
                                                  thereupon proceed to elect a delegate, or
                                                  delegates, from such representative district,
                                                  (according as the same may be entitled) to attend
                                                  a convention of such delegates, to be held at the
                                                  Capitol of the State, at Indianapolis, on the
                                                  first Tuesday of May next. And such election shall
                                                  be attended by the Inspectors, Judges and Clerks
                                                  appointed for holding the township elections, on
                                                  said first Monday of April, who shall conduct the
                                                  same and make return thereof according to the laws
                                                  of the State governing general elections for
                                                  representatives to the General Assembly.
                                                  And be it further Resolved,
                                                  That a Convention of such delegates, elected as
                                                  aforesaid, shall bs held at the Capitol of this
                                                  State, at Indianapolis, on the first Tuesday of
                                                  May next, who shall thereupon proceed to elect ---
                                                  delegates to attend said National Convention,for
                                                  the purpose of promoting the objects herein
                                                  contemplated.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. LASSELLE moved to make the matter the special order
                                                in Committee of the Whole for
                                                Monday, the 23d day of February, in order that every
                                                gentleman might have ample time to mature his
                                                opinions.
                                          Mr. HANNA was for an earlier clay for the special
                                                order.
                                           Mr. HARNEY was for referring the resolution to the
                                                  Committee on Federal
                                                Relations.
                                          Mr. PACKARD favored the latter view of the subject, and
                                                hoped an early day would be set for the discussion
                                                upon this and similar resolutions. The people of the
                                                whole State were solicitous to know what this
                                                Legislature was going to do relative to the grave
                                                matters pointed out by the resolution.
                                          After further debate, in which Messrs. GRIFFITH, PUETT,
                                                HOLCOMB, HARNEY, GREGORY and others participated,
                                                the joint resolution was made the special order for
                                                Tuesday the 16th proximo.
                                    
                                    
                                          SOLDIER'S VOTE.
                                          The joint resolution [H. R. 9] for legislation
                                                permitting soldiers in the field to  vote, was read the
                                                second time and referred to the Committee
                                                  on Elections.
                                    
                                    
                                          PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                           Mr. Burton's joint resolution (H. R. 10,
                                                printed on page 57 of these Reports,) for the speedy
                                                and prompt payment of soldiers, and against the
                                                great discrepancy between the pay of officers and
                                                privates, was read the second time.
                                          Mr. GRIFFITH moved to stride out of the resolution the
                                                words "our President, Abraham Lincoln, and
                                                our Governor, Oliver P. Morion, have seemingly lost
                                                all care of the white soldier in prosecuting a war
                                                for the freedom of the negro."On motion of
                                                Mr. BROWN, the amendment and resolution were
                                                referred to the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations.
                                          House Joint Resolutions 11, 12, 13 and 14 (see pages 67
                                                and 68) were read the second time.
                                    
                                    
                                          HONOR TO OUR SOLDIERS>
                                          The joint resolution (H. R. 15, printed on pages 77 and
                                                78 of the Brevier Reports) for the perpetuation of
                                                the memory of Indiana soldiers who have fallen or
                                                who may hereafter fall, in a war for the maintenance
                                                of the Constitution and the digni-nity and rights of
                                                all the States unimpaired, was read the second
                                                time.
                                          Mr. LAMB was opposed to the committee proposed by the
                                                resolution. He thought bis Excellency the Governor
                                                could do all the work necessary in the regard.
                                          Mr. MOORMAN moved an amendment, imposing the duty of
                                                collecting information under the resolution upon the
                                                Adjutant General.
                                          On motion by Mr. BROWN the amendment was laid on the
                                                table--yeas 49, nays 38. 
                                          He would as soon trust the Governor in the premises as
                                                the Adjutant General.
                                          Mr. ANDERSON opposed the resolution ap the basis, the
                                                foundation for a gigantic swindle. To authorize such
                                                a committee to sit during the recess would furnish
                                                them a salary of, perhaps, $1,000 a year, to get
                                                knowledge now within the possession of the Governor
                                                and the Adjutant General, and which could be
                                                obtained from them without cost. But this the
                                                majority are unwilling to accede to. If he, like
                                                many of the majority, were denouncing the war every
                                                day as an unholy war, he would not compliment the
                                                men who fell in its prosecution.
                                          Mr. PACKARD had anticipated opposition from the
                                                Abolition portion of the General Assembly to
                                                anything looking to honoring our brave and patriotic
                                                soldiers who had fallen in defense of their
                                                country's institutions. These men who
                                                opposed the resolution had nothing to say against
                                                the corruptions of their own party. They would crawl
                                                on their bellies and lick the dust from the feet of
                                                Lincoln, Cameron and Fremont, the most corrupt and
                                                infamous villains, so far as plundering the public
                                                treasury was concerned. But, when our soldiers were
                                                to be honored, they were afraid of expense, of
                                                corruption on the part of Democratic Committees.
                                                Why? Because the resolution did not propose to thank
                                                shoulder straps who had gone into the war for pay,
                                                or those who had gone into it as Abolitionists for
                                                the purpose of overthrowing the institutions of
                                                their country. The Democracy, who revered those who
                                                had fallen in defense of the Constitution, would not
                                                talk about economy, would not talk about expense
                                                upon a question to perpetuate their memories.
                                                Abolitionists were not proposed to be complimented
                                                by the resolution. They had hung upon the rear, got
                                                their pay, and had come out or would come out,
                                                generally, from the war personally unscathed, and
                                                with their pockets full.
                                          Mr. ANDERSON asked if the five men under the resolution
                                                could not draw three dollars a day for two years,
                                                and mileage wherever they chose to travel?
                                          Mr. PACKARD said the resolution gave the Committee a
                                                wise discretion.
                                          Mr. STONE remarked that the gentleman proposed to keep
                                                the roll of those who went from patriotic motives.
                                                As he considers Democrats alone patriotic, did he
                                                design only to enroll Democrats?
                                          Mr. PACKARD said he would enroll all the deceased
                                                soldiers, but proposed to thank Democrats only.
                                           Mr. LAMB moved to strike out the 4th resolution.
                                          Mr. PACKARD moved to lay the amendment on the
                                                table.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, January 28, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. DOUGLASS, from the select committee thereon, reported back the
                                    concurrent resolution (see page 60) authorizing a contract to be
                                    made with ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER for 1500 copies of their
                                    Brevier Legislative Reports, recommending its passage with an
                                    amendment reducing the price to one-half cent per page,
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL I find at the extra session that these Brevier Reports
                                    made 281 pages and there will not be lens than 350 or 400 pages
                                    this session. At the price the committee proposes to allow, we
                                    would be paying $1,75 or 2$ for each book; and I take it that
                                    would be paying a pretty large price for so small a book. I am
                                    not prepared to say that I am not in favor of printing this work
                                    in book form at a reasonable and fair rate, but I cannot consent
                                    to it at that rate.
                              Mr. BROWN, of Wells. The explanation given by the Senator from
                                    Fayette (Mr. Claypool) will answer my purpose. I am in favor of
                                    continuing these Reports, but at the same time I feel like being
                                    cautions as to the amount of money we ex-  pend for them. I shall be
                                    willing to give the Reporters that which will be remunerative,
                                    but until I am satisfied we cannot get them for less than half a
                                    cent a page I shall have to vote against them.
                              Mr. BEARSS moved to lay the report on the table.
                              Mr. RAY demanded a division of the question.
                              The Senate refused to lay on the table the amendment proposed by
                                    the committee--yeas 10, nays 36.
                              The question recurring on laying the original resolution on the
                                    table, the yeas and nays were demanded by Messrs. Beeson and
                                    Claypool, and being ordered and taken resulted--yeas 25, nays
                                    21as follows:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                YEAS--Messrs. Bearss, Beeson,
                                                  Berry, Blair, Browne, of Randolph, Brown, of
                                                  Wells, Campbell, Claypool, Culver, Davis, of
                                                  Parke, Dickinson, Downey, Fuller, Gifford, Grubb,
                                                  Jenkins, Mansfield, March, Mellett, Moore, New,
                                                  Pleak, Teegarden, White, and Wright--25.
                                                NAYS--Messrs. Cobb, Corbin,
                                                  Davis, of Cass, Douglass, Dunning, Ferguson,
                                                  Finch, Gaff, Hartley, Hoagland, Hord, Johnston,
                                                  Landers, McClurg, Marshall, Murray, Kay, Shields,
                                                  Williams, Wilson, and Wolfe--21.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              So the resolution was laid on the table.
                              
                                    INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, offered the following, which was
                                          adopted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, It is especially
                                                  due to the people, while the burdens and
                                                  sacrifices of a dire civil war are fearfully
                                                  taxing their energies, that rigid investigations
                                                  should be made of the official conduct of their
                                                  public servants, to whom the control of public
                                                  moneys may have been entrusted, and
                                                  WHEREAS, The people of the
                                                  State of Indiana demand of this Legislature a
                                                  faithful and fearless discharge of such duty;
                                                  therefore
                                                  Resolved, That a special
                                                  committee of five be appointed by the President of
                                                  the Senate to investigate th expenditures in the
                                                  State Quartermaster's Department, the
                                                  purchase of arms by the State, and the management
                                                  of the State Arsenal; and that said committee be
                                                  authorized to send for persons and papers, and
                                                  report the result of their investigations.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. DOWNEY, "whether a general law can be
                                          enacted, under which the Circuit and Common Pleas Courts,
                                          in their respective circuits and districts, may fix the
                                          times of holding the regular as well as special terms of
                                          said Courts."
                                    By Mr. WILLIAMS, "whether the one hundred thousand
                                          dollars appropriation to the Governor as a military
                                          contingent fund has been expended in accordance with the
                                          intent and meaning of the law waking said
                                          appropriation."
                                    By Mr. MURRAY, "what additional legislation may be
                                          necessary to insure the support of destitute families at
                                          the public expense, of such volunteers as are now in the
                                          military service of the country."
                                    Mr. MOORE. "as to amending the school law so as to
                                          compel the directors of each school house to take the
                                          enumeration of the children within their respective
                                          districts in the place of the township trustee; "
                                          so that it shall be the duty of the Boards of County
                                          Commissioners of the several counties to appoint a school
                                          examiner at the county seat, and also to inquire into the
                                          expediency of reducing his pay not to exceed twenty-five
                                          dollars.
                              
                              
                                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                                    On motion by Mr. BROWN, of Wells, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the Secretary
                                                  of the Senate enquire of ARIEL & W. H.
                                                  DRAPIER, Reporters, at what price they will
                                                  furnish, ready for binding, 5 copies of their
                                                  Brevier Legislative reports to each member of the
                                                  Senate, and report as early us possible.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    THE $1,100.000 APPROPRIATION.
                                    Mr. CORBIN offered the following,which was adopted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, All Governments
                                                  derive their just powers from the consent of the
                                                  people governed, and no people can give that
                                                  consent, without a just knowledge of their acts of
                                                  their agents.
                                                  AND WHEREAS, an over taxed and heavily burdened
                                                  people every where, are demanding earnestly o
                                                  their representatives-and agents in every
                                                  department, an observance of that rigid economy,
                                                  which alone can preserve the integrity, vigor and
                                                  life of any government, or the liberties of her
                                                  people; therefore, in order to further the
                                                  accomplishment of said objects,
                                                  Be it Resolved, by the Senate
                                                  (the House of Representatives concurring) that a
                                                  committee of five, two from the Senate and three
                                                  from the House, be appointed, to wait upon his
                                                  Excellency Governor Morton, and request him to fix
                                                  a time at as early a day as possible, when he will
                                                  report to this Legislature, how much of the one
                                                  million appropriation, approved May 31, 1861, came
                                                  to his hands; also, how much of the one hundred
                                                  thousand dollars appropriated as a contingent for
                                                  the Governor came into his hands, and what amount,
                                                  if any, of Bonds were issued by him, under an act
                                                  approved May 13,1861 to authorize the Governor to
                                                  issue Bonds &c. And for him to give a
                                                  detailed statement of the disbursement of said
                                                  funds; also, for him to report to this Legislature
                                                  whether the Federal Government has not paid to him
                                                  for the benefit of the State an amount sufficient
                                                  to cover all or nearly all advances made by the
                                                  State on account of the war. Also, to report to
                                                  this Legislature, what, officers and employees
                                                  growing out of the present war are now being paid
                                                  by the Stale, the salaries and other expenditures
                                                  of said employees and officers charged to the
                                                  State, and what other expenditures, if any growing
                                                  out of the same cause is being charged against the
                                                  State.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    BOUNTY TO DISABLED SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. NEW introduced a joint resolution [5] to instruct our
                                          Senators and request our Representatives in Congress to
                                          vote for a law to allow bounty to soldiers discharged for
                                          disability before the expiration of the term of their
                                          enlistment which as passed to the second reading.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. RAY, [60] to detect and prevent the circulation of
                                          counterfeits, altered and worthless paper currency, and
                                          prescribing the duties of banks in relation thereto,

                                    

                                    By Mr. MELLETT, [61] repealing an act in relation to
                                          witnesses, and to repeal section 238 of article 13 of the
                                          practice act.
                                    By Mr. NEW, [62] to amend the first section of an act for the
                                          incorporation and continuance of banking, fund and savings
                                          associations, approved March 5, 1857.
                                    By Mr. CORBIN, [63] to amend section 5 of an act to provide
                                          for the uniform mode of doing township business, approved
                                          February 18, 1859.
                                    By Mr. BERRY, [64] amending section 16 of the act providing
                                          for the election of Justices of the Peace, and defining
                                          their jurisdiction in civil cases.
                                    By Mr. CORBIN, [65] to amend section 322 of the practice
                                          act.
                                    By Mr. WOLFE, [66] to amend section 134 of an act providing
                                          for the settlement of decedents' estates,
                                          approved June 17, 1862.
                                    By Mr. CORBIN, [671 the better to secure the free passage of
                                          fish in the streams and water courses of this State, and
                                          to provide a penalty for a violation thereof.
                                    By Mr. CULVER, [68] for the relief of Perry Burgett.
                              
                              
                                    PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                    The unfinished business of yesterday coming up in regular
                                          order The pending motion to lay the amendment on the table
                                          was agreed to by yeas 27, nays 18.
                                    Mr. COBB made an ineffectual motion--yeas 16, nays 30--to lay
                                          the amendment proposed by the committee on the table.
                                    Mr. LANDERS moved to amend so as to favor the reduction of
                                          Chaplains' pay fifty per cent.
                                    Mr. MARCH thought the committee's amendment covered
                                          the whole ground embraced in the last amendment
                                          offered.
                                    Mr. LANDERS thought a greater reduction should be made in the
                                          pay of Chaplains than in that of other officers. Many
                                          thought this useless officer ought to be dispensed
                                          with.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, said if the mover would change the
                                          amendment so as to favor the abolition of the office of
                                          Chaplain, he would vote for it.
                                    On motion by Mr. MARCH the amendment to the amendment was
                                          laid on the table--yeas 27, nays 18.
                                    On motion by Mr. DOWNEY the amendment was amended so as to
                                          favor the passage of an act to secure the payment of all
                                          dues to soldiers and more prompt payments hereafter.
                                    Mr. WOLFE made an ineffectual motion--yeas 12, nays 34--to
                                          lay on the table the amendment as amended.
                                    The amendment of the committee as amended, was then concurred
                                          in, and the resolution adopted by consent.
                                    The hour for dinner having arrived--
                                    The Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Senate bills numbered 48 to 59 inclusive (for a description
                                          of which see [page 92 of these Reports) were read the
                                          second time and severally referred to appropriate
                                          committees.
                                    
                                          THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                          The joint resolution [S. 3] printed at length in pages
                                                91 and 92 of these Reports, was read the second time
                                                and referred to the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations; alter an ineffectual motion
                                                to print--yeas 18, nays 27.
                                          Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Ray in the chair) while discussing the
                                                motion to print, said he thought these resolutions
                                                contained the most important matter that has boon or
                                                would be presented to this body. The Democracy, as a
                                                party, should not shrink from an expression of its
                                                views, and would not.
                                    
                                    
                                          BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                                          The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a Communication
                                                from ARIEL & W.H. DRAPIER. in answer to a
                                                resolution of inquiry passed in the morning session,
                                                hav- reference to the continuation of their Brevier
                                                Reports.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, January 28, 1863.
                              
                              On motion of Mr. BIRD the rules were suspended, and the bill [S.
                                    47] to fix the term of Common Pleas Courts in Allen and other
                                    counties was read the second and third time and finally
                                    passed.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES
                                    Recommending that House bills 35, 49, 51, 55 and 92 (see
                                          pages 54, 57 and 85) be laid on the table, were severally
                                          concurred in.
                                    
                              
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY
                                    Addressed to appropriate committee, were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. DONALDSON,as to the propriety of authorizing county
                                          clerks to issue, without cost, letters of administration
                                          to orphans of soldiers.
                                    By Mr. WOLFE, to inquire under what law the exemption of
                                          persons from military duty on account of conscientious
                                          scruples was confined to but a portion of the religious
                                          sects of the State, and an assessment levied only on 40
                                          per cent, of such persons.
                                    Mr. HARNEY offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                          appointing a committee of seven to visit the State
                                          Arsenal, and report the result of their investigation to
                                          the people of the State, if expedient.
                                    Mr. JONES offered a resolution, which was rejected,
                                          instructing the Committee on Education
                                          to report on the propriety of assessing a school tax on
                                          colored persons for their exclusive benefit. 
                              

                              

                              
                                    A MILITARY BOARD.
                                    Mr. COOK offered a resolution instructing the
                                                Military Committee to inquire
                                          into the expediency of so amending the militia law as to
                                          place the military power of the State into the hands of a
                                          majority of the following State officers, the Secretary of
                                          State, Auditor, Treasurer and Attorney general.
                                    Mr. BROWN was in favor of a military board taking out of the
                                          Governor's hand the military power. The precedent
                                          set by She Republicans or union men of
                                          the State of Kentucky in establishing such aboard ought to
                                          be followed by the Abolitionists of Indiana. He would
                                          permit the Governor to be on the Board, but put enough
                                          honest men on to control it. In his own section of the
                                          State he had heard grievous complaints as to the
                                          mismanagement, the partiality, the incompetency with which
                                          the military affairs of the State had been conducted.
                                    Mr. NEWMAN followed, eulogizing Gov. Morton. He was a human
                                          being, however, and liable to commit errors. There was no
                                          necessity for establishing the board proposed.
                                    Mr. CASON argued to show that the re-solution was out of
                                          order. By the Constitution the Governor was invested with,
                                          supreme authority in the regard.
                                    Mr. BROWN desired to ask the gentleman from Boone and
                                          Hendricks (Mr. Cason.) if the establishment of the Board
                                          proposed would in any way prevent the Governor from acting
                                          as Commander-in-Chief?
                                    Mr. CASON. Unquestionably that board would control the
                                          Governor, and, therefore, he could not act independently,
                                          as the Constitution requires.
                                    Mr. MOORMAN said that depriving the Governor of control was
                                          the evident effect of the appointment of the Board in
                                          Kentucky, and as that was endorsed by the gentleman from
                                          Jackson, (Mr. Brown.) it was presumed that he desired the
                                          same effect here.
                                    Mr. WOOLLEN offered an amendment that nothing in the
                                          resolution shall be construed to indicate a desire on the
                                          part of the House to abridge the constitutional rights of
                                          the Governor.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. BROWN answered the Constitutional objections urged by the
                                          gentleman from Boone and Hendricks, (Mr. Cason,) against
                                          the resolution.
                                    Mr. GREGORY, Mr. WOOLLEN, and Mr. HARNEY, continued the
                                          discussion.
                                    The resolution was referred to the Committee on the
                                                Judiciary.
                                    The joint resolution (H. R; 16see page 82) in regard to
                                          Congressmen from districts under military control was
                                          ordered to the third reading.
                                    
                                          PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                          The joint resolution [H. R. 17--see page 32] for
                                                increase of pay of privates and noncommissioned
                                                officers was read.
                                          Mr. HOLCOMB offered an amendment reducing the any of
                                                officers under the rank of Major twenty-five per
                                                cent. Major and higher rank pay decreased fifty per
                                                cent.
                                           Mr. HIGGINS made an ineffectual motion to table the
                                                amendment--yeas 34, nays 56. 
                                          Mr. BROWN was in favor of increasing the pay of the
                                                private soldier, but was at the same time in favor
                                                of decreasing the pay of Major Generals, Brigadier
                                                Generals, Colonels, Majors and Captains, many of
                                                whom were skulking from the field and loafing about
                                                hotels and whisky shops.-- He hoped the day was not
                                                far distant when the army would be dispensed with,
                                                but until then he would stand for justice to the
                                                private soldier.
                                          Mr. CASON offered an amendment to the resolution to
                                                raise the pay of non-commissioned officers in
                                                proportion to that of privates.
                                          Mr. WOLFE made an ineffectual motion to table the
                                                resolution and amendments.
                                          On motion by Mr. HOLCOMB the resolution was referred to
                                                the Committee on Military Affairs
                                                with instructions to report on Thursday of next
                                                week.
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          JESSE D. BRIGHT.
                                          The joint resolution [H. R. 18] endorsing the expulsion
                                                of Jesse D. Bright from the Senate of the United
                                                States was read the second time.
                                          On motion by Mr. HANNA it was laid on the table by yeas
                                                52, nays 39.
                                          Pending the roll call--
                                          Mr. BROWN said: I do not vote to lay the resolution on
                                                the table because I am an admirer or endorser of Mr.
                                                Bright.-- Neither do I so cast my vote as evidence
                                                that I endorse the letter that he wrote to Mr.
                                                Lincoln. But I so cast my vote because I believe
                                                that that partizan Senate expelled him therefrom
                                                because he did not indorse the imbecile prosecution
                                                upon the part of the present Administration of the
                                                present war; because I have good reason to believe
                                                that the Abolitionists of that Senate expressed
                                                their willingness to retain Mr. Bright if he would
                                                recall certain statements and sustain the
                                                Administration in its war policy; because I have
                                                good reason to believe that his refusal to indorse
                                                the war policy of the Administration was the real
                                                cause of his expulsion, and not the letter to which
                                                that Senate referred. 
                                    
                                    
                                          THE SECOND READING.
                                          House joint resolutions 19 to 25 inclusive (described
                                                on pages 85, 93 and 94 of these Reports,) and Senate
                                                joint resolutions 1 and 2 (described on pages 44 and
                                                69) were severally read the second time.
                                    
                              
                        

                        

                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, January 29, 1863.
                              
                              The PRESIDENT announced the special committee authorized by the
                                    resolution to inquire into the conduct of the State
                                    Quartermaster General's Department, to-wit: Messrs.
                                    Brown, of Wells; Cobb, Downey, Browne, of Randolph, and New.
                              Also, the committee on the part of the Senate on the resolution
                                    adopted yesterday concerning the $1,100.000 appropriations,
                                    to-wit: Messrs, Corbin and Claypool.
                              Also, the following committees:
                              On Congressional apportionment, one from each District, viz.
                                    Messrs. Fuller, Wolfe, Shields, Pleak, March, Ray, Chairman,
                                    Wilson, While, Teegarden, Graves, and Brown, of Wells.
                              On Legislative apportionment, one from each District, viz: Messrs.
                                    Williams, Chairman, Bradley, Hord, Gifford, Mellett, Blair,
                                    Johnston, Culver, Corbin, Hoagland and Grubb.
                              
                                    REPORTS PROM COMMITTEES
                                    Recommending that Senate bills 14 and 23 (see pages 55 and 61
                                          of these Reports) be laid on the table, were severally
                                          concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. MOORE, "into the expediency of passing a law
                                          exempting the property of all soldiers from execution
                                          while absent, from home in the service of the United
                                          States or this State."
                                    By Mr. COBB, "into the expediency of repealing the
                                          act approved March 9, 1861 empowering'the Bank of
                                          the State of Indiana to lay off and create additional bank
                                          districts not exceeding five in number and to locate and
                                          establish Branches of said Bank in each of said
                                          districts."
                                    By Mr. GRUBB, as to change of law Compensating the officers
                                          of Boards of Elections, so that the pay shall be drawn
                                          from the civil fund of Townships.
                                    Mr LANDERS offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                          Governor furnish the Senate a detailed statement of his
                                          proceedings under the act for the defense of the
                                          State.
                              
                              
                                    A NATIONAL CONVENTION.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, introduced a joint resolution [6]
                                          proposing a general Convention of all the States in the
                                          Federal Union, including the so-called Confederate States,
                                          with a view to the restoration of the Union with all the
                                          dignity, equality and rights of the several States
                                          unimpaired which was read the first time and passed to the
                                          second reading.
                                    It is as follows:

                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, We believe that the
                                                  following language: "Suppose you go to
                                                  war, you cannot fight always, and when, after much
                                                  loss on both sides and no gain on either, you
                                                  cease fighting, the old identical questions as to
                                                  terms of intercourse are again upon you,"
                                                  embodies great truths and wisdom; therefore.
                                                  Be it resolved by the General
                                                  Assembly of the State of Indiana, That it is
                                                  the imperative duty of the Chief Executive of the
                                                  nation to proclaim, and we, therefore, for and in
                                                  the name of the people of the State of Indiana,
                                                  demand the establishment as soon as practicable of
                                                  an armistice to the end that a Convent en of all
                                                  the States may be held for the adjustment of our
                                                  national difficulties.
                                                  Resolved, That we hereby
                                                  instruct our Senators and request our
                                                  Representatives in Congress, to labor to provide,
                                                  and for and in the name of the people of the State
                                                  of Indiana, we demand that the present Congress
                                                  shall provide for a Convention of all the States,
                                                  to be holden at some suitable point at the
                                                  earliest practicable period, with a view to the
                                                  restoration of the Union with all the dignity,
                                                  equality and rights of the several states
                                                  unimpaired.
                                                  Resolved, That, in the event
                                                  of the present Congress failing to provide for
                                                  such Convention, we hereby, in the name of the
                                                  people of the State of Indiana, invite each and
                                                  every State in the Federal Union, including the
                                                  so-called Confederate States, to meet delegates
                                                  from the State of Indiana, in Convention at
                                                  Nashville, Tennessee, on the first Monday, it
                                                  being the first day of June, 1863, each of said
                                                  States to send as many delegates to said
                                                  Convention as shall equal the number of Senators
                                                  and Representatives to which such State is
                                                  entitled in the Congress of the United States,
                                                  according to the census of 1860.
                                                  Resolved, That for the
                                                  purpose of carrying out, on the part of the State
                                                  of Indiana, the object set forth in the two last
                                                  foregoing resolutions, there shall be elected, on
                                                  the first Monday in April 1868, in the usual
                                                  manner and at the usual places of holding
                                                  elections, thirteen delegates from the State at
                                                  large, to represent Indiana, in said Convention at
                                                  Nashville, Tennessee; unless the present Congress
                                                  shall provide for a Convention as in the second of
                                                  these resolutions designed, in which case said
                                                  delegates shall be certified to the Governor of
                                                  the State, and commissions shall issue to them in
                                                  the manner, as nearly as the same may be
                                                  practicable, provided by sections 44 and 45 of the
                                                  act regulating general elections. And further, in
                                                  the even of the present Congress failing to
                                                  provide for a Convention as designed in the second
                                                  of these resolutions, said delegates shall be
                                                  entitled to a per diem of Five Dollars during
                                                  their attendance upon said convention at
                                                  Nashville, and mileage at the rate of five cents
                                                  per mile for every mile necessarily traveled in
                                                  going to and returning from said Convention, which
                                                  per diem and mileage shall be drawn from the State
                                                  Treasury upon the warrant of the Auditor of State,
                                                  issued to the Treasurer of State, upon
                                                  certificated of service from the presiding officer
                                                  of said Convention.
                                                  Resolved, That the Governor
                                                  of this State transmit, or cause to be
                                                  transmitted, a copy of these resolutions to the
                                                  President of the United States, the Congress of
                                                  the United States and the Governors and
                                                  Legislatures of each and all the States in the
                                                  Federal Union including the so-called Confederate
                                                  States.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. MELLETT [69] to amend section 76 of an act providing
                                          for the settlement of decdent's estates approved
                                          June 17, 1852.
                                    By Mr. HORD [70] to amend section 156 of the practice
                                          act.
                                    By Mr. CLAYPOOL [71] to amend the 1st and 2d sections of an
                                          act relative to  the
                                          salaries of public officers approved March 5, 1859.
                                    By Mr. GAFF, [72] to amend section 42 of an act to repeal all
                                          laws now in force for the incorporation of cities, provide
                                          their powers and rights and the manner in which they shall
                                          exercise the same and to regulate such other matters as
                                          properly pertain thereto.
                                    By Mr. GRUBB, [73] to amend section 14 of an act authorizing
                                          the construction of plank, macadamized, and gravel roads,
                                          approved May 12, 1862, and to extend the time in which
                                          companies and organized under such act shall commence and
                                          complete the construction of their road.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES
                                    Senate bills numbered 60 to 68 inclusive (introduced
                                          yesterday) were read the second time and referred to
                                          appropriate committees.
                                    The House memorial to the Governor and Legislature of New
                                          York was referred to the Committee on Federal
                                                Relations.
                                    
                              
                              
                                    BOUNTY TO DISABLED SOLDIERS.
                                    The Senate joint resolution [5] introduced yesterday, was
                                          read the second time and ordered to be engrossed.
                              
                              
                                    IN AID OF RAILROADS.
                                    The bill [S. 15] authorizing railroads to construct branches
                                          and to take stock in bridge companies, was read the third
                                          time and passed by yeas 40, nays 2.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. Corbin's resolution to authorize one half of the
                                                Prison Committee to visit the
                                          prison North, and the others the prison South,and to make
                                          the committee consist of sixteen members, coming up.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS moved to amend by striking, out all after the
                                          resolving clause, and insert the following: "that
                                          the Senator from Vanderburg (Mr. Finch) and the Senator
                                          from Marshall (Mr. Corbin) be added to the
                                                committee on the States
                                          Prison."
                                    The amendment was adopted.
                                    On motion by Mr. WOLFE the amended resolution was laid on the
                                          table.
                                    Mr. CORBIN offered a resolution that the committee
                                                on the State Prison be reduced to a number
                                          not exceeding eight, which lays over under the rule for
                                          one day.
                                    
                                          DEATH OF HON. THOMAS SHOULDERS.
                                          Mr. COBB. Mr. President, I rise to announce to the
                                                Senate the death of the Hon. Thomas Shoulders, the
                                                Senator from Dubois who departed this life this
                                                morning at ten minutes before four
                                                o'clock.
                                          I deeply regret, sir, my physical inability, as well as
                                                my want of knowledge of the history of the deceased,
                                                to render the proper tribute to his memory. My
                                                acquaintance with the deceased commenced two years
                                                ago, when he first took his seat as a Senator in
                                                this chamber. My relations with him since that time
                                                have been of the most agreeable character. I ever
                                                found him a true and honest friend.
                                          The deceased was born in Marion county, Kentucky,
                                                January 25th. 1806, consequently at his death he was
                                                fifty six years of age. His father, Cader Shoulders,
                                                immigrated to this State in the year 1823, and
                                                located in Dubois county, in the neighborhood of the
                                                residence of the deceased. By occupation his father
                                                was a chair maker, but the deceased was raised to
                                                the occupation of a farmer, to which the greater
                                                part of his life was devoted. His education was
                                                limited, being confined to that afforded by the
                                                common schools of those early times in the history
                                                of Indiana. In his nineteenth year, and after his
                                                immigration to this State, the deceased was married
                                                to Miss Polly Boler, of Kentucky, and soon
                                                thereafter commenced housekeeping in the county of
                                                his residence at the time of his death, it being at
                                                that time almost a wilderness.
                                          The deceased and his wife had to contend with the
                                                hardships and difficulties incident to pioneer life,
                                                but by energy and industry they overcame all
                                                obstacles and secured a competency against want. In
                                                1831 the deceased received a commission as Captain
                                                of the militia, which position he held four years,
                                                when he was promoted to the position of Colonel of
                                                the Forty-third Regiment of the Indiana militia, in
                                                which capacity he served five years. In 1838, he was
                                                appointed by the Board of County Commissioners a
                                                Collector of the the Revenue of the county of his
                                                residence which he filled for one year, when he was
                                                elected Associate Judge of the same county which
                                                position he held for five years.
                                          In 1856 was elected to represent Dubois county in the
                                                other branch of the Legislature, where he honestly
                                                and faithfully performed his duty as Representative.
                                                In I860 he was a candidate for State Senator for his
                                                district, and was elect over his opponent by
                                                thirteen hundred and twenty-nine majority. His first
                                                vote far President was for General Jackson in 1828.
                                                The deceased was honored at home and abroad by those
                                                who knew him. He was truly an honest man.
                                          Mr. WILLIAMS offered the following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That the members
                                                  and officers of the Senate have received with deep
                                                  sensibility the melancholy intelligence of the
                                                  death of the Hon. Thomas Shoulders, late Senator
                                                  from the county of Dubois
                                                  Resolved, That in taken of
                                                  repeat for the memory of the deceased, the member
                                                  and officers of the Senate will wear the usual
                                                  badge of mourning during the remainder of the
                                                  present session of the General Assembly.
                                                  Resolved, that arrangements
                                                  be made at the expense of the State to convey the
                                                  body of the deceased to his family residence.
                                                  Resolved, That the members
                                                  and officers of the Senate will form in procession
                                                  at the Farmers Hotel, on Illinois street, on the
                                                  30th inst. at 7 1/2 a.m.,  and from thence attend
                                                  the corpse to the Union Depot.
                                                  Resolved, That his Excellency
                                                  the Governor, the Judges of the Supreme Court, and
                                                  the other officers of the State now at the seat of
                                                  Government, be invited to unite in the procession,
                                                  and that joint participation on the part of the
                                                  members and officers of the House of
                                                  Representatives be requested.
                                                  Resolved, That the President
                                                  of the Senate be directed to appoint two Senators
                                                  to accompany the remains of our departed friend to
                                                  his late residence in the county of Dubois under
                                                  the charge of the Sergeant at Arms.
                                                  Resolved, That the President
                                                  of the Senate transmit a copy of these resolutions
                                                  to the family of the deceased.
                                                  Resolved, That a committee be
                                                  appointed to make the requisite arrangements for
                                                  this mournful occasion.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. MARCH concurred most heartily in the resolutions.
                                                The Senator has fallen suddenly at his post, almost
                                                as suddenly as if he had been stricken down on the
                                                battlefield, and it was right and proper to pause
                                                and reflect at such a moment. It should teach
                                                members upon this floor how short was life, and it
                                                should impress stingily upon the minds of all the
                                                obligations upon them to devote the energies of a
                                                short life to the service of their country and the
                                                good of mankind. Mr. March paid a beautiful tribute
                                                to the private worth of the deceased Senator.
                                          Mr. RAY could not let this moment pass without giving a
                                                slight tribute to the departed. He had scarcely
                                                noticed the vacant seat, so short was the last
                                                sickness, until the sad announcement was made that
                                                it's late occupant was dead. He had formed
                                                the acquaintance of Mr. Shoulders two years ago,
                                                when he occupied a seat by his side. He was a man of
                                                fine natural abilities. He did not possess the
                                                advantages of education that the young men of the
                                                present day enjoy, but he a was man of clear
                                                judgment and sound common sense. It was these
                                                qualities that recommended him to his neighbors, and
                                                he had been honored and confided in by them to a
                                                remarkable degree. The solemn admonition should have
                                                its effect upon his brethren here and teach them to
                                                throw aside those bitter bickerings that are apt to
                                                creap into bodies of this kind. Mr. Ray spoke
                                                eloquently of the loss to the country and to the
                                                community in which he resided, and to the family of
                                                the deceased.
                                          Mr. SHIELDS bore testimony to the worth of the
                                                deceased. He knew the estimation in which he was
                                                held in the district in which he lived. There he was
                                                regarded as the noblest work of God--an honest
                                                man.
                                          Mr. WOLFE paid an eloquent tribute to the deceased, and
                                                spoke beautifully of the lesson pointed out by the
                                                death of one against whom there was not a breath or
                                                whisper that would cast a shadow upon his
                                                memory.
                                          Mr. FERGUSON. I cannot let the present moment pass
                                                without saying a few words in tribute to the memory
                                                of the deceased, at least to express my concurrence
                                                in all that has been said of his noble qualities. I
                                                recollect well the last time I ever saw him. It was
                                                in the Governor's room, whither he had gone
                                                for the purpose of obtaining some information as to
                                                the locality of the regiment to which his son is
                                                attached in the service of his country. I found the
                                                venerable man tracing the map with his finger to
                                                ascertain the locality of the regiment, probably for
                                                the purpose of sending some message to his brave
                                                son, doomed to be the last message of an
                                                affectionate father. Little did I then think that
                                                that was to be the last I was to see of him in life,
                                                and no doubt he little thought that the shaft of
                                                death, that had hitherto been turned aside from the
                                                son in the smoke and peril of battle, should so soon
                                                strike down the father. True it is that
                                          "Leaves have their time
                                                to-fall, And flowers to wither at the North
                                                wind's breath; And stars to set--but
                                                all, Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O
                                                Death!"
                                          May it not be a consolation to the bereaved ones at
                                                home, and the soldiers in the field, to know that
                                                while our departed friend met his death in the
                                                service of his country in the capacity of a
                                                legislator, he was not forgetful of the obligations
                                                of an affectionate parent. May his sudden death be a
                                                warning to us all and better prepare us for the
                                                future.
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL preferred to remain silent, as grief was
                                                best expressed by silence, but least silence might
                                                be misconstrued, he could not refrain from adding
                                                his tribute to the deceased. He formed an
                                                acquaintance with the deceased two-years ago, during
                                                a stormy session, and he could judge him at such a
                                                time. Mr. Shoulders was a man of strong will, and,
                                                although a partizan, he was fair to his opponents,
                                                manly and frank. It was always known where he would
                                                stand. At the extra session, when party feeling was
                                                thrown aside, he rose with the occasion, and no man
                                                exhibited a more lofty patriotism. He asked no
                                                higher tribute than had been paid to the memory of
                                                the deceased by those who knew him well that he was
                                                an honest man.
                                          Messrs. CORBIN and WHITE also spoke in appropriate
                                                terms of the deceased.
                                          The resolutions were adopted unanimously.
                                          The PRESIDENT announced as the committee to accompany
                                                the remains home, Messrs. Williams and Shields.
                                          The PRESIDENT also announced as the committee of
                                                arrangements, Messrs. March, Cobb and Ray.
                                          And then--
                                          On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That as a further
                                                  token of respect for the deceased, this Senate do
                                                  now adjourn.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                        

                        

                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, January 29, 1863.
                              
                              The SPEAKER appointed the following:
                              Committee on the Arsenal: Messrs. Harney,
                                    Roberts, Tarkington, Packard, Collins, Kemp of Vigo, Marshal,
                                    Milroy and Anderson.
                              Committee on resolution to perpetuate the memory of
                                          deceased soldiers: Messrs. Packard, Roberts,
                                    Leeds, Pendleton and Stone.
                               Mr. NEWMAN presented a petition from citizens of Wayne county,
                                    asking legislation for the education of negro and mulatto
                                    children; and moved to refer it to the Committee on
                                          Education.
                              Mr. ABBOTT moved in amendment that it be referred to the
                                          Committee on Roads, with instructions
                                    to provide all facilities for transporting negroes and mulattoes
                                    out of the State.
                              The amendment was rejected, and the motion to refer was agreed
                                    to.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Recommending that the bill [H. R. 36] to register voters and
                                          prevent, election frauds; and the papers contesting the
                                          seats of the members from Marion county (Tarkington and
                                          Kendrick) be laid on the table were severally concurred
                                          in.
                              
                              
                                    QUALIFICATIONS OF VOTERS.
                                    Mr. ROBERTS, from a majority of the Committee on
                                                Elections, returned joint resolution [H.R.
                                          12] proposing an amendment to the Constitution, so that
                                          legislation may more effectually guard against fraudulent
                                          voting, with a favorable recommendation.
                                    Mr. SPENCER, from the same committee, submitted a minority
                                          report, recommending that the joint resolution be laid on
                                          the table because the proposed amendment of the
                                          Constitution would give too wide a range for
                                          legislation.
                                    Mr. ROBERTS said our action would not be final. The people
                                          are as competent to pass upon its merits as the
                                          Legislature, If the people desire such legislation it is
                                          their right to vote for it. All would admit that there
                                          should be some restriction as to residence.
                                    Mr. CASON called attention to the fact that the same
                                          resolution was passed by the last Legislature. It was an
                                          admitted fact that the Constitution did not give the
                                          proper latitude for legislation on this point, so that a
                                          law effectual to prevent fraud may be passed.
                                    Mr. HUMPHREYS made an ineffectual motion--yeas 25, nays
                                          61--to indefinitely postpone the joint resolution.
                                    Mr. BROWN moved to refer the report and resolution to the
                                                Judiciary Committee.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON was severe upon the republicans who had some
                                          years ago sent agents into Wayne county to import
                                          vagabonds into Morgan county to override the free
                                          expression of honest voters at the ballot box. The people
                                          demanded that these outrageous wrongs should be
                                          rectified.
                                    Mr. BROWN stated that the attorney, (Jonathan W. Gordon,) for
                                          the republicans in the Morgan county frauds, referred to
                                          by the gentleman who had just taken his seat, had admitted
                                          those frauds, and had abandoned his side of the case in
                                          utter disgust.
                                    Mr. HANNA inquired whether it had not been ascertained that
                                          one man voted the Republican ticket in Morgan county who
                                          had been dead fourteen years?
                                    Mr. BROWN was not able to say, but the fact of outrageous
                                          frauds in that county was known to the whole State.
                                    Mr. PACKARD said that his section of the State had suffered
                                          same in the matter of election frauds. It was the candid
                                          opinion of many honest men in his Congressional District
                                          that the present member of Congress was elected by the
                                          most unparalleled frauds. He (Mr. Packard) was for
                                          referring the matter to the Judiciary
                                                Committee for thorough sifting.
                                    Mr. HUMPHREYS was opposed to refusing any man a vote who was
                                          willing to take an oath that he is entitled to vote. If a
                                          man comes up and swears he is entitled to vote, his ballot
                                          ought to be taken. Our laws now are sufficient, if we had
                                          honest man to carry them out.
                                    Mr. PUETT wanted the present law enforced, and free men
                                          protected at the polls. He was opposed to any restrictive
                                          legislation. He knew that the State had been going to ruin
                                          since stuffing, ballot boxes had commenced and cheating
                                          perpetrated. In this very city men had net been protected
                                          at the polls. He opposed the amendment because he hoped
                                          that a constitutional convention would be called to
                                          remodel the Constitution.
                                     Mr. MORGAN contended that the present law was not effective,
                                          as it was generally ruled that judges of elections could
                                          not refuse the vote of a man who, though he had come into
                                          the precincts but a day before, swore that he was an
                                          actual resident.
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK corrected this impression. The Supreme Court in a
                                          recent case had decided that if the person offering to
                                          vote made the required oath, the judges had the right to
                                          go back of it to determine his qualifications, and reject
                                          the vote for valid reasons.
                                    Mr. CASON said the resolution was examined by the
                                                Judiciary Committee of the last
                                          legislature, and he did not remember any opposition from
                                          Democratic members. He thought the House was prepared to
                                          vote on the measure now as well as at any other time.

                                    

                                    Mr. NIBLACK. We were driven into that condition that before a
                                          great while we should have to assemble a Constitutional
                                          Convention. The nature of our Federal relations was such
                                          that this would be demanded. In view of this, then, he was
                                          opposed to any present steps for radical changes in the
                                          organic law of the State. He disclaimed on the part of
                                          Democrats all party feeling on the question, as gentlemen
                                          in opposition had charged. He was for sending the
                                          resolution back to the Judiciary
                                                Committee.
                                    The motion to refer was agreed to.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH offered the following concurrent resolution:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The land of Henry
                                                  Clay, Joseph Holt, John J. Crittenden, Cassius M.
                                                  Clay and Hon Thos. F. Marshall, the old State of
                                                  Kentucky, has been Conspicuous for eloquence,
                                                  patriotism and chivalry, and has hitherto been an
                                                  object of our warmest regards; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, By this House, the
                                                  Senate concurring, that with emotions of ardent
                                                  hope and intense pleasure, we hail the evidences
                                                  of the patriotism contained in the following joint
                                                  resolution offered in the Senate of the
                                                  Commonwealth of Kentucky, by Mr. Gilliss.
                                                  "Resolved by the General
                                                  Assembly of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
                                                  That the Federal Government of the United States
                                                  being engaged in a terrible war for the
                                                  suppression of a causeless and wicked rebellion,
                                                  which aims to sunder the Union and destroy the
                                                  Government, Kentucky, being an integral portion of
                                                  the Government--a loyal State thereof--and having
                                                  long since plighted her faith to that Government,
                                                  to aid in the suppression of the rebellion and the
                                                  restoration of the Government, with the rights of
                                                  all the States;that notwithstanding she holds
                                                  opinions adverse to the policy and Constitutional
                                                  powers of some of the war measures of the Chief
                                                  Executive of the nation--still unwavering in her
                                                  devotion and attachment to the Government of her
                                                  illustrious ancestors and revolutionary
                                                  desires--she again reiterates her pledges of
                                                  fidelity to the great common cause, and with all
                                                  her energies, and with all her power, and with all
                                                  her means, will advance steadily forward in the
                                                  prosecution of the war, to the crushing of the
                                                  rebellion, and the reiteration of the Union and
                                                  the Constitution."
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. PUETT the name of Cassias M. Clay was
                                          stricken from the preamble: by yeas 56, nays 25.
                                    Mr. VAN BUSKIRK made an ineffectual motion to strike out all
                                          the names in the preamble.
                                    The resolution was adopted.
                                    
                                          HOUSE EMPLOYEES.
                                          Mr. PUETT made a report from the Committee on
                                                  the Employees of the House. The
                                                committee found no more clerks or pages employed
                                                than were necessary for the prompt discharge of
                                                their duties.-- They have found more persons
                                                employed as Assistant Doorkeepers than are
                                                necessary, though the exact number could not be
                                                obtained, as the Doorkeeper (Mr. Benedict Burns) had
                                                stubbornly refused to give the names or number of
                                                his appointees.-- They deem him not qualified for
                                                the position and recommend the adoption of a
                                                resolution dispensing with his services.--They
                                                recommend that the Assistants therein named be
                                                continued in service, and that J. B. Frazer, act as
                                                Doorkeeper until an election takes place.
                                          On motion by Mr. ROBERTS the report was made the
                                                special order for to-morrow at ten o'clock
                                                a.m.
                                    
                                    
                                          INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE
                                          The resolution introduced by Mr. Brown, of Wells, in
                                                the Senate yesterday, proposing an investigation
                                                into the State Arsenal and Quartermaster's
                                                Department, coming up in order--
                                          On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON the resolution was amended
                                                by requiring "that in the investigation of
                                                the accounts of any particular Quartermaster he be
                                                notified of the fact, and permitted to appear before
                                                the committee in person and by
                                                counsel."
                                          Mr. KILGORE was in favor of the investigation. He
                                                wished it was broader so as to include all the war
                                                expenses of the State. Gov. Morton had been charged
                                                with extravagance, yet he had no fears of
                                                investigation.
                                          Mr. BURTON said his Excellency need not court
                                                investigation. He should have it. It was supposed
                                                that he had committed frauds and been reckless of
                                                expense, He should have at the hands of this body
                                                the representatives of the people whose money he has
                                                used, a full, fair and impartial investigation.
                                          Mr. KILGORE said Gov. Morton had used money freely for
                                                the benefit of sick and wounded soldiers. Scarcely
                                                had the smoke lifted from the battlefield of Shiloh
                                                ere the Governor was there with his nurses and
                                                hospital stores. For the last two weeks he had heard
                                                continued abuse of the Governor. Yet he had no
                                                reason to believe that a single gentleman who
                                                condemned him had ever come up to the capital to
                                                tender their services on such an occasion. He
                                                challenged one of them to rise in their seats and
                                                assert the contrary. He did not make the charge
                                                against the Democratic party generally, but against
                                                certain politicians who were loudly denouncing
                                                him.
                                          Mr. BROWN. No man would moro freely give "our
                                                Excellent Governor," in the language of the
                                                gentleman who has taken his seat, credit for what he
                                                had done for our sick and wounded soldiers. But if
                                                he had not done all in his power for our soldiers he
                                                would have been recreant to his sworn duty--have
                                                been recreant to what the people of the whole State
                                                demanded of him--his name would descend with
                                                ignominy. His Excellency was as the gentleman said,
                                                good at "courting." It was the
                                                duty of all to do all that could be done for our
                                                brave and patriotic sick and wounded soldiers. He
                                                insisted that his Excellency must attend to this
                                                thing. But at the same time he was not willing to
                                                suffer his Excellency, to plunge his hands  into the public
                                                treasury, sending this one, and that one, man,
                                                woman, doctor and nurse, by railroad all over the
                                                country, his favorites, without being called to
                                                account for it. He (Mr. Brown) did not doubt that
                                                "our excellent Governor''
                                                had recklessly and extravagantly expended the public
                                                money. If Governor Morton should come out of the
                                                investigation pro posed, unscathed, let him have the
                                                glory.
                                          The resolution, as amended was concurred in by yeas 91.
                                                nays 1.
                                          The Senate resolution, for a committee to investigate
                                                the war expenses of the State, requesting the
                                                Governor to give a detailed statement of the amount
                                                of the several appropriations which have come into
                                                his hands, and of the funds received from the
                                                Federal Government, was concurred in.
                                    
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                          The following described bills were read the third time
                                                and finally passed :
                                          H. R. 9, to repeal the act of 1861, to ascertain the
                                                fees of Clerks of the Courts. Sheriffs and other
                                                county officers, by yeas 75, nays 16.
                                          H. R. 15, to relieve Aaron Foster, by yeas 91, nays
                                                0.
                                    
                                    
                                          DEATH OF SENATOR SHOULDERS.
                                          The House, on motion of Mr. NIBLACK, took from the
                                                table the Senate message relating to the decease of
                                                Hon. Thomas Shoulders.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK pronounced a brief and feeling eulogy upon
                                                the deceased. He was a patriot. He, although
                                                politically opposed to the Administration, had given
                                                two sons to the service of his country.-- To the
                                                dear ones at home, under the circumstances, these
                                                two sons absent in the army--to his wife and young
                                                daughter the news would come as a crushing and
                                                overwhelming dispensation of Providence. Mr.
                                                Shoulders was a Christian gentleman. He died in
                                                communion with the Methodist Episcopal Church. The
                                                bereaved family had his most heartfelt sympathies,
                                                and he (Mr. Niblack) did not say this as a mere
                                                matter of form.
                                          Mr. HOLCOMB bore testimony to the many virtues of the
                                                deceased. Judge Shoulders was not the most brilliant
                                                man, perhaps, but he was an honest man, perhaps loss
                                                at this juncture would therefore be sensibly
                                                felt.
                                          The resolution was concurred in, and the Speaker
                                                appointed Messrs. Kemp and DeBruler a committee on
                                                the part of the House to accompany the remains to
                                                the late residence of the deceased.
                                          On motion of Mr. BROWN the Speaker appointed Messrs.
                                                Branham, Niblack and Holcomb a committee of
                                                arrangements on the part of the House relative to
                                                the obsequies of the deceased.
                                           As an additional testimony of respect to the deceased,
                                                the House adjourned.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, January 30, 1863.
                              
                              The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                    severally passed to the second reading :
                              By Mr. DOWNEY, [74] to fix the time of holding the Common Pleas
                                    Court in the Fifth District.
                              By Mr. LANDERS. [75] to Amend the 1st section of an act providing
                                    for the election and qualification of Justices of the Peace, and
                                    defining their jurisdiction, powers and duties in civil
                                    cases.
                              By Mr. HORD, [76] to amend section 1 of an act touching the laying
                                    out and locating towns, approved May 20. 1852 and providing when
                                    this act shall take effect.
                              
                                    COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.
                                    Mr. WOLFE offered the following :
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Judiciary Committee be
                                                  instructed to report a bill abolishing the office
                                                  of Common Pleas Prosecuting Attorney and taking
                                                  from the Common Pleas Court all criminal
                                                  jurisdiction.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. WOLFE said that he introduced the resolution to test the
                                          sense of the Senate. He doubted whether a law could be
                                          passed at this session, abolishing the Court of Common
                                          Pleas, but he believed that the sentiment of the General
                                          Assembly was in favor of the proposition embraced in the
                                          resolution. It would be one step in the way of reform.
                                          There was no necessity for continuing criminal business in
                                          the Common Pleas Courts. While Circuit Prosecutors
                                          received sufficient compensation to justify competent
                                          attorneys accepting the position, such was not the case,
                                          and never would be, with Common Pleas Prosecutors. The
                                          business of prosecuting could be better done in the
                                          Circuit Court, and at a great saving of money to the
                                          people.
                                    Mr. MELLETT could not agree to the assumption that there was
                                          a necessity for abolishing the office of Common Pleas
                                          Prosecutor, and continuing the Court itself. The surest
                                          remedy was to abolish the whole Common Pleas system. One
                                          reason, perhaps, why the Court would not be abolished, was
                                          the fact that a large number of Judges, who would be
                                          legislated out of office, were working to defeat this
                                          measure. But this was no good reason for him, and it ought
                                          not to influence Senators. The reasons in favor of
                                          abolishing the system were manifold, substantial, and
                                          unanswerable.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, said that, while he was in favor of
                                          abolishing the Court, he was also in favor of this
                                          proposition. The meagre salaries paid Common Pleas
                                          Prosecutors would never secure competent officers. One
                                          hundred criminals had, the past year, been let out of the
                                          Penitentiary because of illegal committals, all the work
                                          of ignorant prosecutors. Change the system, and there
                                          would be more convictions. It was an irresponsible system,
                                                 the prosecutor
                                          claiming all the prerogatives of a grand jury, and in many
                                          cases his action was unjust.
                                    Mr. WOLFE moved to amend his resolution so as to add :
                                          "and that it is inexpedient to abolish the Court
                                          of Common Pleas."
                                    Mr. MELLETT moved to add in the proper place, " and
                                          the jurisdiction of the said court in civil
                                          causes."
                                    Mr. WOLFE objected to the amendment. It would reduce the
                                          Court to an old fashioned Probate Court. He favored every
                                          measure to reform it. He knew it required reform, but
                                          before he would consent to abolish it, he must be assured
                                          that a better system could be devised and brought forward
                                          to replace it. It was on this ground alone that he opposed
                                          the abolition of the Court. If you divest it of civil and
                                          criminal jurisdiction, you have a Circuit Probate system
                                          in the State. Will this be an improvement on the score of
                                          expense?-- You have the Judges to pay, and the machinery
                                          of a Court to keep up. If you strike the Court
                                          down--abolish it--you throw the Probate business into the
                                          Circuit Court. He knew that the Judges of that Court were
                                          competent, but, with a multiplicity of business, would you
                                          better the manner of doing that branch of business, or
                                          would you cheapen it? Another, proposition was to give the
                                          Clerks of Courts Probate jurisdiction. He was opposed to
                                          that. The most of the Clerks were not elected with a view
                                          to that end. They were not lawyers, and in many instances
                                          would not be able to grapple with questions that would
                                          come before them.--He was not wedded to the Common Pleas
                                          Court, but he was opposed to changes in our judicial
                                          system, and utterly opposed to experimenting with it. The
                                          people were not demanding the change. The demand was made
                                          by a certain class of Circuit lawyers, who thought a
                                          double system interfered with their practice. he admitted
                                          the objections urged, but was fully satisfied that the
                                          abolition of the Court would work evil. The Probate
                                          business combined. He dwelt at length on this view, and
                                          condemned severely the disposition to place it in
                                          incompetent hands--such as Clerks of Courts. He hoped a
                                          direct vote on the question would be taken. The Senate was
                                          as full as it was likely to be. He would not object to
                                          postpone, but when the vote is taken,
                                          let it be direct, and the mind of the Senate would be
                                          known on the subject. All admitted that some reform was
                                          needed, and when the views of the Senators are known, the
                                          Senate could act understandingly.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL. The Senator from Harrison (Mr. Wolfe) had
                                          convinced him that the Court of Common Please should be
                                          abolished. He states that the Probate business is the most
                                          important. If it was so, the business should be in the
                                          hands of the highest and best Court in the State.-- He was
                                          not influenced by personal motives in this view. He had
                                          the pleasure of practicing under one of the ablest lawyers
                                          and best men on the bench. That gentleman himself thinks
                                          the Court should be abolished, and time and again said so.
                                          The salaries paid to Common Pleas Judges did not, and
                                          could not, secure the best talent. Unless the Judge, (as
                                          was the cause in this District) was a wealthy man, he
                                          could not afford to occupy a seat on the Common Please
                                          Bench. He was in favor of increasing the pay of Circuit
                                          Judges, and increasing the circuits. The salaries of
                                          Circuit Judges should be at least $2,000 per annum. Less
                                          than that would not secure the services of the best legal
                                          minds. He hoped a direct vote would be had. He believed a
                                          direct vote would be had he believed a majority on this
                                          floor were in favor of abolishing the Court of Common
                                          Pleas, and doing away with this multiplicity of Courts,
                                          which only impaired the dignity and efficiency of the
                                          Judiciary of the State.
                                    Mr. RAY. The gentleman from Harrison (Mr. Wolfe) admitted the
                                          objections urged against the Common Pleas system, and that
                                          reform was needed. We have two Courts of common
                                          jurisdiction. If the ends of justice can be as well
                                          subserved by one Court as by two, and if the expense can
                                          be reduced 25 or 30 per cent., is it not right and is it
                                          not policy to do so? He thought the argument that a
                                          certain class of lawyers advocated abolishing the Court
                                          for interested motives was hardly worthy of the attention
                                          of the Senate. The people were satisfied with the old
                                          Probate system. It was a cheap and a fair system. The
                                          Common Please Court was a new thing to the people, and it
                                          was increased expense without corresponding benefit. The
                                          Judges of these Courts knew little or nothing of the
                                          condition of the estates in the counties. They issued
                                          citations and taxed the cost, and that is all they did.
                                          The Clerk and the Attorney settled the business. He
                                          compared the method of doing business by the Probate
                                          Judges. They were public administrators, and kept posted
                                          on the business before them. Put this business in the ands
                                          of Courts having criminal and civil litigation, and what
                                          time as the Judge to give attention to the settlement of
                                          estates?
                                    Mr. WOLFE. Would not the same objection hold good if the
                                          business was in the Circuit Court?
                                    Mr. Ray said it would. In that respect he differed with the
                                          gentleman from Fayette, (Mr. Claypool.) He wanted the
                                          Common Please Court abolished. He wanted the Probate
                                          business given into the hands of a clerk or surrogate, to
                                          be open when other public offices of the county were open,
                                          when people could be accommodated at all times. As it is,
                                          the time of court  is
                                          taken up with litigated cases, and the Probate business
                                          comes in as a sort of side bar, and it is done up by the
                                          clerk and the attorney, independent of the Judge, who is
                                          occupied with other business. If he was devising a system
                                          for the benefit of lawyers, he could not think of a better
                                          than the one now in existence. It is admitted that the
                                          criminal business of the Court was shamefully mismanaged.
                                          He would remove it to the Circuit Court. He would accept
                                          this, if he could not do better. But he demanded more, a
                                          greater reform, and the people would yet demand it. This
                                          Court was fastened upon them by restless politicians, who
                                          were always urging change. He was willing to increase the
                                          pay of Circuit Judges under the present depreciated state
                                          of the currency, but he would require the Judges to work.
                                          Let them hold three terms of the Court, if needed. He
                                          spoke of the Prosecutors as in general utterly useless
                                          under the double-headed system, but contended that if
                                          there was only one set of such offices under a Court of
                                          dignity, with sole jurisdiction, that competent talent
                                          would be secured. Make the office an honorable and
                                          reputable one, and the huckstering and brokerage of the
                                          crimes of the country, now so much complained of, would
                                          disappear. He contended that it was in argument in favor
                                          of the present system that a better one was not presented.
                                          The gentleman from Harrison, an able and ingenious lawyer
                                          as he is, could devise one. Give the Probate business to
                                          the Clerk, or give it to a local Surrogate. He opposed a
                                          circuit, a traveling Surrogate. The business should be in
                                          the hands of parties who could be accessible at all
                                          times.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. RAY said, in order that the question pending should have
                                          more mature consideration, and be returned to the Senate
                                          when it was more full than at present, he would move the
                                          reference of the resolution to the Judiciary
                                                Committee, with instructions to act, in
                                          conjunction with the Committee on the Judiciary
                                                of the House, and determine the expediency
                                          of abolishing the Common Pleas Court, and instituting a
                                          substitute with Probate jurisdiction, and if found
                                          expedient, to prepare and present a bill for the
                                          purpose.
                                    Mr. WOLFE opposed the reference. He simply offered the
                                          resolution to get an expression of the Senate, and the
                                          reference would defeat that object. He was willing to
                                          postpone the consideration of the subject, but he wanted a
                                          direct vole when a vote was taken.
                                    Mr. MARCH was ready to vote on all these propositions now. He
                                          could not agree with the gentlemen who asserted that the
                                          Court was useless or inefficient. The Judges would compare
                                          favorably, for legal ability and moral worth, with the
                                          Judges of the Circuit Court. The convictions for crime in
                                          these Courts had been as numerous as in the Circuit
                                          Courts.
                                    Mr. RAY. Does not the history of our criminal trials show
                                          that over seventy convictions have been made in that Court
                                          that could not be legally sustained?
                                    Mr. MARCH. With all that it was the cheapest and best system.
                                          It was not a secret tribunal, like the Grand Jury system.
                                          It was not a place surrounded by guards where men could go
                                          to vent their malice against their neighbors. He did not
                                          believe in the theory advanced here that it required large
                                          salaries to secure the best legal talent. The history of
                                          the Judiciary in this State does not prove the assertion.
                                          He wanted to know what system would be substituted when
                                          you tore down the one under debate. It was easy to tear
                                          down, but often difficult to build up. He would not vote
                                          to abolish the present Court until he saw what substitute
                                          would be offered.
                                    Mr. MELLETT regarded this as a test vote, and simply voting
                                          for an expression of opinion did not commit Senators to
                                          any substitute. If it was found that the Court was to be
                                          abolished, then gentlemen would present their plans of a
                                          substitute, as many of them had intimated they would do. 
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON said that it would be no test vote, so for as he
                                          was concerned, as he would vote against the abolition of
                                          the Court until he had an opportunity of voting tor
                                          something better as a substitute, in which case he might
                                          vote for its abolition.
                                    On motion by Mr. COBB the motion to refer was laid on the
                                          table: yeas 19, nays 18.
                                    Mr. FERGUSON thought the means proposed to get a direct vote
                                          on this subject were the worst that could have been
                                          thought of. A test vote could not be had in the shape now
                                          presented.
                                    Mr. COBB moved to lay the resolution and pending amendments
                                          on the table.
                                    Mr. WOLFE demanded a division of the question.
                                    The amendment (Mr. Mellett's) to the amendment was
                                          laid on the table by yeas 27, nays 11.
                                    The amendment (Mr. Wolfe's) was also laid on the
                                          table by yeas 28, nays 11.
                                    The Senate refused to lay the resolution on the table by yeas
                                          18, nays 21.
                                    Mr. MELLETT moved to strike out from the word
                                          "resolved," and insert the following,
                                          "that it is expedient to abolish the Common Pleas
                                          Court."
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded by Messrs. Mellett and
                                          Claypool, and being ordered and taken, resulted--yeas 17,
                                          nays 22--as follows :
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bearss,
                                                  Beeson, Berry, Browne, of Randolph, Claypool,
                                                  Downey, Dunning, Finch, Jen-kins, Landers,
                                                  Marshall, Mellett, Moore, Murray, Pleak, Ray and
                                                  Wright--17

                                                  

                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Blair,
                                                  Campbell, Cobb, Corbin, Culver, Davis, of Parke,
                                                  Davis, of Cass, Ferguson, Gaff, Gifford, Grubb,
                                                  Hartley, Hoagland, Hord, Johnston, McClurg, March,
                                                  New, Teegarden, White, Wilson and Wolfe--22.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the amendment was rejected.
                                    The question recurring on adopting the original
                                          resolution,
                                     The yeas and nays were demanded by Messrs. March and Ray,
                                          and being ordered and taken resulted--yeas 18, nays 21--as
                                          follows :
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Beeson, Berry,
                                                  Browne, of Randolph, Claypool, Davis, of Davis, of
                                                  Cass, Dunning, Finch, Gaff, Hartley, Hoagland,
                                                  McClurg, Marshall, Moore, Murray, New, Ray, Wolfe
                                                  and Wright--18.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bearss, Blair,
                                                  Campbell, Cobb, Corbin, Culver, Davis, of Parke,
                                                  Downey, Ferguson, Gifford, Grubb, Hord, Jenkins,
                                                  Johnson, Landers, March, Mellett, Pleak,
                                                  Teegarden, White and Wilson--21.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the resolution was rejected.
                                    
                                          AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES.
                                          Mr .CLAYPOOL introduced a joint resolution, [7] in
                                                relation to the land donated by Congress to the
                                                State for the purpose of endowing Colleges, which
                                                was read the first time.
                                    
                                    
                                          INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE.
                                          On motion by Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That the special
                                                  committee heretofore appointed by the Senate upon
                                                  the instructions introduced by the Senator from
                                                  Wells (Mr. Brown--day before yesterday) to
                                                  investigate and report upon the affairs of the
                                                  Quartermaster Department and of the Arsenal, be,
                                                  and is hereby instructed to inquire into the
                                                  expenditures, and investigate the manner in which
                                                  the Commissary Department of the State has been
                                                  conducted.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          
                                                STATE PRISON COMMITTEE
                                          
                                          The resolution (introduced yesterday by Mr. Corbin) to
                                                reduce the State Prison Committee
                                                to eight members, coming up.
                                          On motion of Mr. WOLFE it was laid on the table.
                                          House bill 15 was read the first time.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE KENTUCKY LEGISLATURE
                                                RESOLUTIONS.
                                          The House concurrent resolutions (printed in the
                                                proceedings of yesterday afternoon) in response to
                                                joint resolutions introduced in the Senate of
                                                Kentucky, were taken up.
                                          Mr. WOLFE moved to refer to the Committee on
                                                  Federal Relations.
                                          Mr. MARCH hoped the reference would not be made, but
                                                that the resolutions would be passed at once. He was
                                                in favor of responding to the patriotic resolutions
                                                of the Kentucky Legislature. The House had posted
                                                these resolutions by an almost unanimous vote.
                                          Mr. WOLFE said that when resolutions were introduced
                                                here endorsing the sentiments uttered by the
                                                Governor of New York, they were referred to the
                                                Commit tee on Federal Relations He approved of the
                                                sentiments expressed in them, but he was willing
                                                they should go to the committee for their
                                                consideration. It would be time enough to act upon
                                                this matter when the Legislature of Kentucky had
                                                approved it. At present, it was merely the
                                                expression of an individual Senator from the
                                                State.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, made an ineffectual
                                                motion--yeas 19, nays 20--to lay the motion to refer
                                                on the table.
                                          Mr. LANDERS hoped the resolutions would be referred.
                                                The argument that the House indorsed them was simply
                                                no argument at all. The resolutions from the same
                                                body in reference to the message of the Governor of
                                                New York were sent to the committee, and they took
                                                the right direction.
                                          Mr. RAY favored the reference, not because of
                                                opposition to the sentiments contained in the
                                                resolutions, but because he was opposed to catching
                                                up all the driftwood that floated in the newspapers
                                                and appropriating it as our own, when we had enough
                                                legitimate work before us to occupy all of our
                                                time.
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL desired to see this Senate once more
                                                endorse the declaration contained in these
                                                resolutions. That sentiment had been unanimously
                                                avowed at the extra session. It was: that however
                                                much we might differ from the men in power, we were
                                                for sustaining the government in all its efforts to
                                                prosecute the war vigorously. 
                                          Mr. CORBIN. There is too much time spent in discussing
                                                these matters. The resolutions under consideration
                                                were only presented to the Kentucky Legislature and
                                                our concurrence was not asked He was in favor of the
                                                reference--nothing could be lost by it.
                                          Mr. LANDERS moved to amend so as to insert an
                                                endorsement of Governor Seymour's
                                                message.
                                          Mr. BEARSS made an ineffectual motion--yeas 19, nays
                                                20--to lay the amendment on the table.
                                          Mr. MELLETT moved to indefinitely to postpone the
                                                motion to refer.
                                          On motion by Mr. LANDERS the motion was laid on the
                                                table--yeas 20 nays 19.
                                          On motion by Mr. Downey, the resolutions were then
                                                referred to the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations, "with instructions,
                                                when they report, to incorporate the sentiments
                                                enunciated in these resolutions,in their report or
                                                resolutions"
                                    
                                    
                                          COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, offered a concurrent
                                                resolution instructing the Committee on the
                                                  Judiciary to confer with the
                                                  House Judiciary Committee as to
                                                the expediency of reforming the Judicial system of
                                                the State, and of abolishing the Common Pleas Court,
                                                and if found expedient, that they report bills on
                                                the subject, and that all propositions introduced on
                                                that subject be referred to such committee.
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB the resolution was laid on the
                                                table--yeas 20, nays 17.
                                    
                              
                        

                        

                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, January 30, 1863.
                              
                              The reading of the Clerk's journal of yesterday's
                                    proceedings was dispensed with.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. LAKE. [107] to relieve Ninevah Berry.
                                    Mr. SPENCER, [108] to amend the 16th section of the act
                                          regulating County Commissioners--having reference to the
                                          care of county buildings.
                                    By Mr. MILLER. [109] to amend the 1st section ot the act for
                                          the relief of the borrowers of the Sinking Fund, approved
                                          March 9, 1853.
                                    By Mr. ROBERTS, [110] to amend sec. 1 of an act amending sec.
                                          3 of the act regulating weights and measures, approved
                                          June 9. 1852, approved February 28, 1855.
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, [111] to provide for the transfer of Sinking
                                          Fund mortgages to the counties in which the lands lie.
                                    By Mr. MCGAUCHEY [112] to amend section 19 of the assessment
                                          law, approved June 16. 1852.
                                    By Mr. O'BRIEN, of Hamilton, [113] to amend section
                                          14 of the plank road law, approved May 12. 1852.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, [114] to require Recorders to certify their
                                          records of deeds and mortgages, and other instruments
                                          admissible to record.
                                    By Mr. HOLCOMB, [115] to amend the game law, approved
                                          February 26, 1851.
                                    By Mr. HOWK, [115] to amend the second section of the act
                                          regulating the duties of the Supreme Court Reporter,
                                          approved February 15, 1852.
                              
                              
                                    HOUSE EMPLOYEES.
                                    The report of the committee thereon, (printed in yesterday
                                          afternoon's proceedings,) being the special order
                                          for this hour--10 o'clock--
                                    On motion of Mr. ROBERTS, it was ordered that the doorkeeper
                                          have the privilege of a brief hearing before the
                                          House.
                                    On motion by Mr. ANDERSON the vote making this order was
                                          reconsidered, upon a division of the House affirmative 46,
                                          negative 35.
                                    The question recurring on the motion that the Doorkeeper be
                                          heard in his own defence--
                                    Mr PUETT opposed it, because it was an indignity to the House
                                          to permit him to speak on a question where he had refused
                                          the committee proper information.
                                    Mr. ROBERTS contended that members who had denounced
                                          arbitrary arrests, without allowing the accused a word in
                                          defence, now proposed to dismiss an officer of the House
                                          without a hearing.
                                    Mr. PUETT replied that the Doorkeeper plead a delay of two or
                                          three weeks, and finally refused to give the names for
                                          reasons of his own. The members of the committee had
                                          labored with him personally, but only received insults,
                                          and were compelled by self-respect to report as they had
                                          done. Mr. Burns had treated the committee with direct
                                          insult. He was not in favor of this man corning into this
                                          House and repeating his insults before the sovereignty of
                                          the State here assembled. The dignity of the House forbade
                                          it. The self-respect gentlemen owe to themselves forbade
                                          it.
                                    Mr. BROWN argued in favor of hearing the Doorkeeper. If his
                                          communication was a respectful one, it ought to be
                                          entertained. It was true that he (Mr. Brown) believed that
                                          the Doorkeeper had not discharged his duties as well as he
                                          might. He had doubtless been extravagant. But every man
                                          publicly charged, even though he be the darkest criminal,
                                          had a right to be heard.
                                    The motion (Mr. Roberts') was again agreed
                                          to--affirmative 44, negative 33.
                                    The DOORKEEPER (Mr. Burns) slated in his own defence, that he
                                          was impulsive and inclined to resist any interference. But
                                          he had been unfortunate. Had lost heavily in party
                                          services. Needed the post, and got it, but was compelled
                                          to make certain promises to secure his election. No sooner
                                          was he elected than he was beset by five hundred men for
                                          places, and was actually compelled to disguise himself on
                                          leaving the State House, to reach his room. He had
                                          suffered terribly at the hands of office seekers. His
                                          appointments had been made at the suggestion of prominent
                                          Democrats in the House, who had promised to sustain him.
                                          He had eighteen adult appointees, and six pages. He was a
                                          partisan, a bitter one, and believed that to the victor
                                          belonged the spoils, and had appointed none but Democrats.
                                          His politics was his religion. He had been a John L.
                                          Robinson Democrat, and the Chairman of the House had been
                                          on the other side, which fact he thought might have
                                          something to do with the matter. He thought the party
                                          ought not to disgrace himself and his family by expelling
                                          him ; justifying his stubbornness on the ground that he
                                          had been required by the committee to give information on
                                          not required by the resolution.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. LASSELLE moved to refer the report to a select committee
                                          of five, to whom the Doorkeeper should furnish the names
                                          and number of his employees ; and that the committee
                                          report on Tuesday morning.
                                    Mr. ABBOTT made an ineffectual motion--yeas 37, nays 42--to
                                          lay on the table the motion for reference.
                                    The motion to refer was agreed to.
                              

                              

                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. PACKARD. [117] relative to Congressional School Fund,
                                          in the counties of Newton and Jasper.
                                    By Mr. VAN BUSKIRK, [118] amending sec. 12 of the act
                                          regulating sale of liquors--against adulteration.
                                    By Mr. SHAFFER, [119] amending 21st section of Common Pleas
                                          law--relative to terms of said Courts in Wabash,
                                          Kosciusko, Fulton, Cass and Miami counties.
                                    By Mr. ROBERTS, [120] amending section 11 of act prescribing
                                          duties of County Surveyors.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE, [121] to prohibit and punish arbitrary
                                          arrests.
                                     By Mr. BURTON, [122] amending 1st section of act providing a
                                          mode of doing township business.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE, [123] amending sections 47 and 49 of act
                                          punishing misdemeanors--providing for obedience to writs
                                          of habeas corpus.
                                    By Mr. PACKARD, [124] amending section 2 of act prescribing
                                          the duties and fixing compensation of Agent of
                                          State--requiring bond of said officer, to be approved by
                                          the Secretary of State instead of the Governor.
                                    Mr. PACKARD moved that the rules be suspended, and the bill
                                          read a second time.
                                    The vote stood yeas 57, nays 16.
                                    The SPEAKER decided that the rules were not suspended,
                                          two-thirds of a full house being required to that end.
                                    Mr. PACKARD (joined by Mr. HARNEY) took an appeal from the
                                          decision of the Chair. He thought two-thirds of a quorum
                                          were sufficient.
                                    The question being Shall the decision of the Chair stand as
                                          the judgment of the House ?
                                    Mr. LAMB quoted the constitution, arguing that one hundred
                                          members constituted a House.
                                    The SPEAKER referred to the same clause of the constitution,
                                          and to the general principles of parliamentary law.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK replied that the House never actually consisted
                                          of one hundred, and that, if that number was required, we
                                          had no House in point of fact. He spoke of the present
                                          condition of Congress. There is not a full Senate or
                                          House. In estimating a quorum it is necessary to count the
                                          vacant seats. He was satisfied that only two-thirds was
                                          necessary to constitute a quorum. He was satisfied the
                                          ruling of the Chair was wrong.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH pursued the argument, sustaining the
                                          Speaker.
                                    Mr. HARNEY sustained the appeal.--The representatives of the
                                          people should not be hampered by a rigid construction of
                                          the constitution, where there was any doubt. The benefit
                                          of the interpretation, therefore, should be in favor of
                                          the House, and no strict and rigid interpretation insisted
                                          on.
                                    Mr. PACKARD also argued in support of his appeal. He urged
                                          the arguments used by the gentleman from Knox [Mr.
                                          Niblack] and the gentleman from Montgomery [Mr.
                                          Harney.]
                                    Mr. BRANHAM followed in favor of the ruling of the Chair. The
                                          object of the constitutional provision was to prevent
                                          hasty legislation. It evidently was the intention of the
                                          framers of the constitution that no bill should be
                                          introduced and passed the same day unless the necessity
                                          was so great as to convince two-thirds of one hundred.
                                    Messrs. LASSELLE and VAN BUSKIRK continued the argument in
                                          favor of the position held by the Chair.
                                    The House sustained the decision of the Chair by yeas 65,
                                          nays 9.
                                    On motion by Mr. NIBLACK, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That when the House
                                                  adjourn it be till Monday at 2 o'clock P.
                                                  M.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, January 31, 1863.
                              
                              Reports from committees recommending that Senate bills 34, (see
                                    page 80 ;) 68, (for the relief of Perry Burgett;) 48 and 43,
                                    (see page 83 ;) be laid on the table, were severally concurred
                                    in.
                              On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON, it was--
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That when the Senate
                                                  adjourn it will be till Monday, at 2
                                                  o'clock p.m.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. JOHNSTON, [77] to amend the 23d section of an act to
                                          provide for the valuation and assessment of the real and
                                          personal property, approved June 21, 1852.
                                    By Mr. JOHNSTON, [78] to amend the 8th section of an act
                                          entitled an act in relation to County Treasurers, approved
                                          June 4, 1852.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    Senate bills 69 to 76 inclusive (introduced yesterday and the
                                          day before) and House bills 9 and 15 (pages 43 and 40 of
                                          these Reports) were read the second time and severally
                                          referred to appropriate committees.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    MONDAY, February 2, 1863.
                              
                              The Senate met at 2 o'clock p. m.
                              Mr. DOWNEY presented a petition from the citizens of Ohio county,
                                    asking a change of the law in regard to drainage of lands, which
                                    was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                              

                              
                                    THE $140,000 MILITARY FUND.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                          Adjutant General be requested to report to the Senate the
                                          reason, or reasons, why the military fund appropriated by
                                          section 7 of the act of May 11, 1861, for the organization
                                          of the Indiana militia, has not been distributed according
                                          to sections 5 and 6 of that act ; whether it is the
                                          intention of the Adjutant General to have such
                                          distribution made, and, if so, when, and, if not, why ; if
                                          further legislation is necessary to authorize such, or any
                                          other distribution, and, if so,of what nature,
                              
                              
                                    FEES OF COUNTY OFFICERS.
                                    Mr. MARCH offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                          Auditor of State be requested to furnish a report
                                          containing an abstract of the reports of County Auditors,
                                          relative to fees of county officers.
                                    On motion by Mr. NEW, and because of the absence of the
                                                Penitentiary Committee, it
                                          was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That when the
                                                  Senate adjourn, it adjourn to meet at 9 a. m. on
                                                  Wednesday.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    MONDAY, February 2, 1863.
                              
                              The House met at 2 p. m.
                              No quorum present, but fifty-two members answering to their names
                                    ;--the Penitentiary Committees being absent ;--adjourned till 9
                                    o'clock to-morrow morning.
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, February 3, 1863.
                              
                              The House met at 9 a. m.
                              No quorum being present, the House adjourned to 2 p. m.
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The reading of the Clerk's journal of
                                          Friday's proceedings was dispensed with.
                                    Mr. FERRIS, from the select committee thereon, returned the
                                          resolution calling upon the Governor for information with
                                          regard to the number of drafted men taken from each
                                          county, and also with regard to nine months' men
                                          why the organization of these men had not been conflicted
                                          according to law, &c., recommending its
                                          passage.
                                    On motion by Mr. HARNEY, it was amended by striking out that
                                          portion requiring the Governor to report the number of
                                          drafted men from each county.
                                    The resolution was then adopted.
                                    
                                          HOUSE EMPLOYEES.
                                          Mr. LASSELLE, from the committee on the
                                                  Doorkeeper's imbroglio,
                                                reported in favor of limiting his employees to
                                                fourteen, that the Doorkeeper had not shown
                                                sufficient dereliction of duty or disrespect to the
                                                House to warrant his dismissal. They him not
                                                sufficiently respectful to the House. They require
                                                him, to amend his report, by striking out offensive
                                                words, or in default to be reprimanded by the
                                                Speaker.
                                          The report was concurred in by yeas 46, nays 25.
                                    
                                    
                                          RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY
                                          Addressed to appropriate Committees were offered, read
                                                and severally adopted, to-wit:
                                          By Mr. NIBLACK, relative to amending the law for the
                                                incorporation of cities and towns.
                                          By Mr. HALL, relative to vacancies in the Military
                                                Board.
                                          By Mr. NEWMAN, in reference to the responsibility of
                                                guardians of female wards.
                                           By Mr. BUDD, relative to abolishing the office of
                                                Township Assessor.
                                          By Mr. HUTCHINGS, relative to holding courts in,
                                                Auditors' offices, or other places.
                                          By Mr. WOODRUFF, a temperance resolution.
                                          By Mr. HUMPHREYS, for a report, at an early day, from
                                                the Committee on Military
                                                Affairs.
                                          By Mr. WATERMAN, relative to trust funds.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                          Mr. ROBERTS offered a joint resolution, [26] pledging
                                                the powers of the State to the support of the Union,
                                                and condemning certain official acts of the
                                                President of the United States ; which was read the
                                                first time. It is as follows :
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved by the General Assembly
                                                  of the State of Indiana, That, in behalf of
                                                  the people of this State, in the language of the
                                                  resolutions approved by the Virginia House of
                                                  Delegates, December 21, 1798, we
                                                  "unequivocally express a firm
                                                  determination to maintain the Constitution of the
                                                  United States, and the Constitution of this State,
                                                  against every aggression, either foreign or
                                                  domestic; and that they will support the
                                                  Government of the United States in all measures
                                                  warranted by the former. That this General
                                                  Assembly most solemnly declare a warm attachment
                                                  to the Union of the States, to maintain which it
                                                  pledges its powers ; and for this end it is their
                                                  duty to watch over and oppose every infraction of
                                                  those principles which constitute the only basis
                                                  of that Union, because a faithful observance of
                                                  them can alone secure its existence and the public
                                                  happiness."
                                                  Resolved, That in view of the
                                                  matters mentioned in the foregoing resolution, we
                                                  declare it to be the bounden duty of the Chief
                                                  Executive of the Government, and all subordinate
                                                  officers under him, as a further guarantee for the
                                                  maintenance of the Union of the States, to see
                                                  that the Constitution and the laws are faithfully
                                                  executed against all opposers whomsoever.
                                                  Resolved, That we utterly
                                                  repudiate the doctrine of secession as being at
                                                  war with those great fundamental principles upon
                                                  which the Government of the United States is
                                                  founded ; and that whenever any portion of the
                                                  people of the Government attempt to carry this
                                                  hateful doctrine into practical operation, by
                                                  armed force, they are guilty of treason.
                                                  Resolved, That in this light
                                                  we view the effort which is being made by a
                                                  portion of the people of the Southern States to
                                                  separate themselves by force and arms from the
                                                  Union, and set up an independent Government; and,
                                                  therefore, we denounce and  hold them up to the
                                                  scorn and contempt of the civilised world as
                                                  traitors to the Constitution and the liberties of
                                                  the people.
                                                  Resolved, That we do also
                                                  denounce and repudiate the doctrine being taught
                                                  by the Abolitionists, that the conscience of the
                                                  individual is a "higher law" to
                                                  him, in the government of his conduct as a
                                                  citizen, than the Constitution of the United
                                                  Mates, which is declared by that instrument to be
                                                  "the supreme law of the land it sets at
                                                  defiance all law and order; and, therefore, it
                                                  cannot be entertained for one instant by those who
                                                  desire to maintain a republican form of
                                                  government.
                                                  Resolved, That the war policy
                                                  foreshadowed by the President in his Inaugural
                                                  Address, and which was more explicitly defined in
                                                  his first Message to the Congress of the United
                                                  States, met with a hearty response from every
                                                  loyal citizen, as was evinced by the spontaneous
                                                  uprising of the people, after the attack upon Fort
                                                  Sumter, who rallied by thousands and by tens of
                                                  thousands, irrespective of party predilections, to
                                                  the rescue of their common country; but, we do
                                                  here declare, in behalf of the people of Indiana,
                                                  that when the President, at the solicitation of
                                                  the fanatics of the New England States, abandoned
                                                  the conservative, sound, national policy which he
                                                  had thus declared to the world, and exercised all
                                                  the powers of his high office to change the
                                                  contest from a war for the maintenance of the
                                                  constitution and the Union to a war for the
                                                  abolition of slavery, a result disowned by him,
                                                  and never contemplated the conservative men of the
                                                  country in the beginning of the struggle, the
                                                  people with equal unanimity, condemned his course
                                                  as being unwise, unpatriotic. and in direct
                                                  violation of the Constitution.
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Proclamations of Emancipation issued by the
                                                  President, of the United States on the 22d day of
                                                  September and the 1st day of January, meet with
                                                  our unqualified condemnation : we view, them as a
                                                  stretch of power wholly unwarranted by the
                                                  constitution ; that they are of no binding force
                                                  in law, and, consequently, are utterly null and
                                                  void.
                                                  Resolved, That we do protest
                                                  against the burdening of the people by taxation to
                                                  pay for the negro slaves of the Southern States,
                                                  and our Senators in Congress are hereby
                                                  instructed, and our Representatives requested to
                                                  use all their power and influence to defeat the
                                                  passage of any law having in view the purchase of
                                                  any such slaves.
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  unwarranted practice, which was inaugurated by the
                                                  present Federal and State Administrations, of
                                                  arresting unoffending citizens without due process
                                                  of law, and carrying them beyond the limits of the
                                                  State, and confining them in military prisons,
                                                  where they were denied the privilege of trial by
                                                  jury, and the benefits of the writ of habeas
                                                  corpus, was a gross violation of the
                                                  Constitutional rights of the people of the State
                                                  of Indiana, and must, therefore, forever
                                                  cease.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          MORGAN COUNTY DIFFICULTIES.
                                          Mr. GREGORY offered a concurrent resolution endorsing
                                                the action of Colonel Henry B. Carrington. Provost
                                                Marshal at this point, with regard to deserters.
                                          Mr. BUSKIRK (Mr. Harney in the Chair) moved an
                                                amendment that, in the opinion of this General
                                                Assembly, the citizens arrested in Morgan county
                                                should not be held as prisoners of war, but be
                                                turned over to the civil authorities to be tried by
                                                them. He did not counsel desertion, nor giving aid
                                                to deserters. If soldiers conduct themselves
                                                properly in making arrests, and parties who resist
                                                them are tried by the civil authorities, there will
                                                be no trouble. But if denied such trial, and they
                                                are held by the military authorities, there will be
                                                trouble in the State of Indiana.
                                          Mr. GREGORY accepted the amendment.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM moved to refer the resolution to a
                                                committee of seven, to examine into the facts and
                                                perfect the resolution.
                                           Mr. WOOLLEN would be unable to vote for the resolution
                                                now. He thought some parts of th a Col. Carrington
                                                order, reflecting on some of the citizens whom he
                                                represented, were not merited. He came this morning
                                                with the friends of some of the parties arrested by
                                                the military. The men arrested were mostly from his
                                                own county, but they were peaceable citizens. He had
                                                no doubt there had been some wrong doze there on
                                                both sides--on the part of the Government and the
                                                people. He wanted the facts before he voted on
                                                it.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK was opposed to heated partisan discussions,
                                                which had done much to produce this state of
                                                excitement. He repudiated any desire to product;
                                                civil war, as he was in favor of peace. He also
                                                referred to a question of privilege. He had been
                                                reported as in favor of an entire revision of the
                                                Constitution. He had said that the condition of the
                                                country would perhaps require a revision of the
                                                Constitution, and that it would be better to defer
                                                actions on amendments now.
                                          The discussion was continued by members of both
                                                parties, who desired that there be such an
                                                expression against any attempt to resist the laws of
                                                the U.S.
                                          The resolution was referred to a committee of seven.
                                                viz: Messrs. Buskirk, Branham, Niblack, Gregory,
                                                Woollen, Atkison and Shaffer.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed to the second
                                                reading.
                                          By Mr. NIBLACK, [125] to amend section 45 of the act
                                                incorporating insurance companies.
                                          By Mr. LAMB. [126] to amend section 8 of the
                                                Justice's act.
                                          By Mr. GIVEN, [127] to procure the service of process
                                                against corporation created by the statuses of other
                                                States.
                                          By Mr. MILLER, [128] to require Recorders'
                                                fees to be paid in advance.
                                          By Mr. WATERMAN. [129] to prohibit public officers from
                                                receiving their salaries in advance.
                                          By Mr. HOWK, [130] to increase the powers of the
                                                Circuit Judges in vacation, relative to hearing
                                                motions and granting injunctions. &c.
                                          By Mr. HALL, [131] to amend the 10th section of the
                                                common school act.
                                          By Mr. GREGORY, [132] to authorize county boards, and
                                                incorporated cities and towns to appropriate lands
                                                for soldiers families or military purposes.
                                          By Mr. HOWK. [153] to amend the 20th section of the
                                                practice act.
                                          By Mr. GIVEN, [134] to legalize sales of real estate by
                                                Administrators in certain cases.
                                    
                              
                        

                        

                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 4,1863.
                              
                              The bill [S.56] regulating the bequeathing of estates for religious
                                    or charitable purposes, was returned from the Judiciary
                                          Committee with a recommendation that it lay on
                                    the table.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL called attention to the bill. It was very simple. It
                                    merely required persons who desired to give their property to
                                    institutions of the kind named to do so six months before their
                                    decease. It was re-enacting the English law on the subject. It
                                    was intended to protect families from the influences frequently
                                    brought to bear upon invalids in their last illness, by crafty
                                    and cunning men in the ministry. or controlling, ambitions
                                    corporations. He gave many instances where great injustice had
                                    been done to families, many of them right in the Capital.
                              Mr. MANSFIELD said it was a remarkable fact that insane minds take
                                    a dislike against those who were most beloved while the patient
                                    was sane. All diseases affected the mind, and designing persons
                                    could easily influence the sick in such a way as to bring
                                    injustice upon their heirs and families.
                              Mr. RAY said that the bill proposed to set up an arbitrary rule as
                                    to the period before death when a man should make a will. The
                                    rule of law was that a man must be sane when he makes a will.
                                    The bill regulates the competency to make a will by time, and
                                    not by the condition of mind. If the mind was in such condition
                                    as to admit of the testator's making a will, he could
                                    make any disposition of his property that he saw fit six days or
                                    six years before death as well as six months prior to death.
                              Mr. DOWNEY hoped that the bill would not become a law. It went
                                    beyond the cases alluded to by the Senator from Fayette, (Mr.
                                    Claypool), and would operate as an improper restriction against
                                    other classes of cases. If it were in evidence that testators
                                    had been governed by improper influences in making wills, that
                                    fact would, under the existing laws, set aside the wills.
                              Mr. MARCH could not vote for the bill in its present form. There
                                    were many cases where individuals had amassed large fortunes,
                                    with the intention of bequeathing them to some institutions for
                                    the benefit of the poor and unfortunate, and it would be unjust
                                    to compel such to devise their property at least six months
                                    before death, unless there could be some rule by which six
                                    months' notice could be nerved upon them of approaching
                                    death. He did not believe in the rule that would hand flown all
                                    of a man's property to a few pampered heirs.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL contended that this bill would do much good and no
                                    harm. It would prevent bequests from being made to monopolies,
                                    (under the name of charitable and religious institutions) by
                                    parties when in an improper condition of mind, and would prove a
                                    protection to many a family, who would otherwise be left
                                    penniless.
                              Mr. WOLFE thought that if we were to obstruct by law the making of
                                    wills for the benefit of charitable institutions, we should
                                    prohibit the making of such wills altogether, and not do it
                                    partially. But he was opposed to all laws that would restrict
                                    any one in disposing of his property in any way that he might
                                    choose. Let the people be perfectly free to give whatever they
                                    pleased, and to whom they pleased, at any time and at all times,
                                    whatever of property they might possess for charitable
                                    purposes.
                              The report of the committee was concurred in, and so the bill was
                                    laid on the table.
                              
                                    FURLOUGHS FOR SICK SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. GAFF introduced a joint resolution [8] recommending
                                          Congress to provide better regulations in regard to
                                          furloughing home sick and wounded soldiers, &c.,
                                          which was read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. WOLFE, [79] to protect the liberty of the press,
                                          declaring certain acts infringing upon the liberty of the
                                          press to be felonies, and prescribing punishment therefor,
                                          and providing compensation to persons whose property is
                                          injured or destroyed by mob violence in certain cases, and
                                          declaring when this act shall take effect.
                                    By Mr. BEESON, [80] to amend the 5th section of the liquor
                                          act.
                                    By Mr. NEW, [81] in relation to injunctions and restraining
                                          order between landlord and tenants.
                                    By Mr. MARCH, for the Judiciary Committee.
                                          [82] to repeal an act entitled an act to authorize the
                                          Bank of the State of Indiana to lay off and create five
                                          additional bank districts, and locate and establish
                                          branches therein, approved March 9, 1861.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    Senate bills 77 and 78, introduced yesterday, were read the
                                          second time and appropriately referred.
                              
                              
                                    A NATIONAL CONVENTION.
                                    The joint resolution [S. 6] (printed in last
                                          Thursday's proceedings) coming up in order--
                                    Mr. BLAIR moved to amend so as to read that no action be
                                          taken by Indiana towards sending delegates to such
                                          Convention until all of the States, including those now in
                                          rebellion, shall have, through their authorities, given
                                          their assent thereto.

                                    

                                    Mr. WOLFE moved to refer the resolution and pending amendment
                                          to the Committee on Federal
                                          Relations.
                                    Mr. TEEGARDEN said he was opposed to the resolutions, but if
                                          gentlemen wished to send delegates South he was in favor
                                          of sending them down into the heart of the rebellious
                                          States, and moved to instruct the committee to strike out
                                          "Nashville" wherever it occurred in the
                                          resolutions, and insert "Charleston, South
                                          Carolina."
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved to amend the instructions so
                                          as to insert "Richmond, Va." instead of
                                          "Charleston."
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL submitted an additional amendment, and the
                                          amendments and joint resolution were referred.
                                    The joint resolution, [3. 71 in relation to land donated to
                                          the State by the United States for the endowment of
                                          colleges, was read the second time and referred to the
                                                Judiciary Committee.
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following hills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed to the second
                                                reading:
                                          By Mr. WOLFE, [83] providing tint creditors and
                                                sureties shall have a right, of notion in certain
                                                cases before the debt or liability is due, and
                                                providing a remedy by attachment in such cases, and
                                                declaring when this act shall take effect.
                                          By Mr. RAY, [84] regulating the fees of County
                                                Recorders, and more fully defining their duties and
                                                powers in certain cases.
                                          By Mr. DOWNEY, [85] on the subject of Master
                                                Commissioners, their duties and compensation.
                                    
                                    
                                          GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                          On motion by Mr. MARCH, the Governor's message
                                                was taken up, and, without reading, referred to
                                                appropriate committees.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 4, 1863.
                              
                              The reading of the Clerk's journal of yesterday's
                                    proceedings was dispensed with.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    On House bills 5, (see page 35;) 33, 34, and 39, (see page
                                          54;) and 64, (see page 458;) recommending that they be
                                          laid on the table, were severally concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    SOLDIERS VOTING.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON, from the Judiciary
                                          Committee, reported that (be joint resolution
                                          [H. R. 9] to amend the Constitution so that the soldier
                                          vote may be taken, is inexpedient and unconstitutional, as
                                          such an amendment can not be made while other are
                                          pending.
                                    The question being on concurring in the report of the
                                          committee--
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded by Messrs. Cason and Roberts,
                                          and being ordered and taken resulted--yeas 42, nays 33 as
                                          follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett, Bird,
                                                  Blocher, Cass, Cook, Donaldson, Ferris, Garvin,
                                                  Given, Griffith, Hall, Hardin, of; Washington;
                                                  Hardin, of Perry; Harney, Hetfield, Hon, Howell,
                                                  Howk, Humphreys, Kemp, of Vigo; Lake, Lasselle,
                                                  Lee, Lemmon, of Harrison; Lemmon, of Spencer;
                                                  McGauchey, Miller, Mutz, Niblack,
                                                  O'Brien, of Hamilton; O'Brien,
                                                  of Martin; Osborn, Pendleton, Ryan, Shaffer,
                                                  Shoaff, of Allen; Shoaff, of Jay; Spencer, Veach,
                                                  Wolfe, Woollen, and Mr. Speaker--42.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Anderson,
                                                  Atkison, Baker, Branham, Budd, Cason, Chambers,
                                                  Davis, Forester, Gregg, Gregory, Hershey,
                                                  Hostetter, Hutchins, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick,
                                                  Lamb, Leeds, Mason, Moorman, Mustard, Newman,
                                                  Noyes, Perry, Pettibone, Richardson, Roberts,
                                                  Robinson, Stone, Tarkington, Waterman, and
                                                  Woodruff--33.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the resolution was laid on the table.
                                    Mr. FERRIS offered a resolution, which was adopted by yeas
                                          40, nays 30, empowering the Chairman of the
                                                Committee on Arbitrary Arrests to
                                          detail four members to sit during the sessions of the
                                          House, to take testimony in such cases, or visit any part
                                          of the State for the same end.
                                    Mr. MASON offered it resolution that as there has been, and
                                          is being, a great quantity of arms imported into Hancock
                                          and Boone counties, within the past few days, the
                                                Military Committee inquire for
                                          what purpose they have been distributed, and report
                                          immediately.
                                    Mr MASON charged that such arms had been imported into
                                          Hancock county, and had been used for the suppression of
                                          free speech.
                                     Mr. BROWN thought, as we had already called upon the
                                          Governor for information in the regard, it would be
                                          respectful to give His Excellency time for a hearing.-- He
                                          (Mr. B.) knew that arms--muskets, and ammunition for the
                                          muskets--were being shipped to Jackson county, and were
                                          distributed in that portion of the count densely populated
                                          by Abolitionists.
                                    Mr. ATKISON said arms sent to Hancock county were furnished
                                          to regularly organized company, as could have been learned
                                          if the gentleman had gone to the Auditor's
                                          office. As to Jackson county, the arms had been sent io a
                                          township giving 80 Democratic majority.
                                    Mr. CASON said those sent to Boons county were to an
                                          organized company.
                                    Mr.'ROBERTS thought there was no occasion for alarm
                                          or distribution of arms now. It was proper that this
                                          General Assembly should know for what purpose these arms
                                          were distributed. The people should demand of the military
                                          authorities an account in this matter. They might be
                                          driven, by the unwise conduct of those authorities, to
                                          force, to assert their rights.-- He hoped such a thing
                                          would not occur ; but it might and would if the
                                          people's rights were continued to be trampled
                                          on.

                                    

                                    Mr. JOHNSON said there had been arms imported into the very
                                          township where the late conflict took place, and placed in
                                          the hands of men who know how to use them, in the hands of
                                          Democrats. There was an organized military company in the
                                          county, who were armed, but had injured no one. Had that
                                          company been in Green township when the law was set at
                                          defiance, it is likely the guerrillas would have suffered.
                                          There were was many arms in the hands of Democrats as of
                                          any other men.
                                    Mr. WOOLLEN had been informed by responsible gentlemen that a
                                          quantity of revolvers had been shipped to Johnson county,
                                          and placed in the hands of Republicans. He objected to the
                                          placing of arms by the military authorities in the hands
                                          of the people. If we wished peace if we would have peace
                                          arms must not be put in the hands of the people by those
                                          in authority. The people had a right to bear arms of their
                                          own, but the times were such now that it was hazardous in
                                          the extreme for the authorities to take any steps in the
                                          direction indicated.
                                    Mr. HARNEY said that the distribution of arms by those in
                                          authority had been going on for some time. It had awakened
                                          a deep feeling throughout the State. These arms had,
                                          mysteriously enough, been placed in the hands of those
                                          friendly to the Governor. It was evident to this mind that
                                          these arms were not distributed for the purpose of defence
                                          or for maintaining the public tranquility. He was for
                                          sitting the whole matter at once.
                                    On motion of Mr. BROWN, the father consideration of the
                                          resolution was postponed until Saturday next at 10
                                          a.m.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                          severally passed tot he second reading:
                                    By Mr. GREGORY, [135] amending 13th section of Common School
                                          law.
                                    By Mr. MOORMAN, [136] amending the act relative to the
                                          Sinking Fund, for the relief of borrowers.
                                    By Mr. FORESTER, [137] supplemental to act relative to
                                          interest on money.
                                    By Mr. BROWN, [138] an act applying certain moneys therein
                                          named to the payment of the public to disburse sinking
                                          funds in purchases of five and ten and a half per cent.
                                          stock of the State by the Agent of the State.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION
                                    On motion of Mr. DONALDSON, the two Senate resolutions
                                          appointing Apportionment Committees (printed in pages 91
                                          and 92) were taken up and the House concurred therein. the
                                          committees heretofore appointed on the part of the House
                                          (see page 82) were designated by the Speaker to serve
                                          under these concurrent resolutions.
                                    Messrs. Howk, Branham and Bird were appointed on the part of
                                          th House as a committee to investigate, with the Governor,
                                          the disbursements of appropriations for military
                                          purposes.
                              
                              
                                    PRAYER MEETING.
                                    Mr. ABBETT offered the following, which was adopted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, God hath said by
                                                  the mouth of his apostle that first of all,
                                                  supplications, prayers, intercessions and giving
                                                  of thanks be made for all men and for kings, and
                                                  for all that are in authority, that we may lead a
                                                  quiet and peaceable life, in all godliness and
                                                  honesty, and that this good and acceptable in the
                                                  sight of God and our Savior, who will have all men
                                                  to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the
                                                  truth therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That all the
                                                  members of this House, and the attachees, who are
                                                  desirous of worshipping God in sincerity and
                                                  truth, and who believe that there is a God of
                                                  Peace as well as a God of War, who rules the
                                                  destiny of nations, and who are desirous of peace
                                                  on earth and good will toward mankind, meet in
                                                  prayer meeting in this hall, on Wednesday evening
                                                  next, the 11th inst. and supplicate the Lord to so
                                                  direct our counsels as speedily terminate this
                                                  unnatural, fratricidal, and desolating war,
                                                  believing, as we do, "that war is
                                                  disunion, inevitable and eternal."
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    House bills 110 and 134 (introduced last Friday and
                                          yesterday) were read the second time and appropriately
                                          referred.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    The following described House bills were read and third time
                                          and finally passed:
                                    Mr. Miller's [4] to amend the 406th section of the
                                          Practice Act--by yeas 75, nays 0. The main provision of
                                          the bill is to keep the judgment alive, after five years,
                                          where the party chooses to issue execution after
                                          execution.
                                    Mr. Brown's [18] to amend section 6th of the estray
                                          act--by yeas 51, nays 24--It raises the printer's
                                          fee for advertising from $1 to $2.
                                    Mr. Given's, [22] to amend section 27 of the divorce
                                          law--by yeas 73, nays 1. It authorizes where suits are
                                          brought in the Common Pleas Court, the Prosecuting
                                          Attorney in the Common Pleas Court to appear and defend
                                          when the defendant does not, as is the case in the Circuit
                                          Court.
                                    Mr. Lamb's, [28] to amend the game law--by yeas 54,
                                          nays 21. It changes the time of prohibiting the killing of
                                          game from November first to October first. 
                                    Mr. WOLFE made an ineffectual motion to recommit the bill
                                          with instructions to amend by extending the time of taking
                                          quails one month in the spring. Mr. Miller's,
                                          [29] to amend the 37th section of the misdemeanor act,
                                          (see page 29)--by yeas 67, nays 7.
                                    Mr. Packard's, [31] to punish violation of
                                          injunction by attachment by yeas 67, nays 6.
                                    Mr. Leeds, [59] empowering Sheriffs to offer lands for sale
                                          at other places than doors of Court Houses in certain
                                          cases--by yeas 57, nays 12.
                              
                              
                        
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, February 5, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Finance Committee,
                                    returned the bill [S. 71] proposing to reduce the salaries of
                                    State officers, with a recommendation that it lie on the
                                    table.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL argued against tabling the bill. It was just to make
                                    the salaries of State officers the same. They should all be
                                    $2,000 or all be $3,000. Why should the President of the Sinking
                                    Fund get more than the Secretary of State?
                              Mr. WILLIAMS submitted that the salary of the President, of the
                                    Sinking Fund, considering the amount, of money that passes
                                    through his hands, and the labor and responsibility, was low
                                    enough. A bill was already before the Senate to cut off all fees
                                    from the State officers, and both bills should not pass.
                              Mr. WOLFE was in favor of the bill. He did not think any man could
                                    earn by his own labor more than $2,000. There was a great deal
                                    of labor probably to be done in the Sinking Fund office, but the
                                    labor was not done by the President, but by clerks, who were
                                    paid by the State, and should be well paid. The President
                                    supervised and directed the work, and he considered $2,000 as
                                    ample compensation. If an additional clerk were needed, give one
                                    and pay him, but he opposed these large salaries, both in the
                                    military and the civil service.
                              Mr. LANDERS was in favor of the passage of the bill introduced by
                                    the Senator from Delaware, (Mr. March) to take the fees from the
                                    State officers, and he thought it would pass, and consequently
                                    did not think this bill should pass.
                              Mr. RAY. The proposition to reduce the salary of the President of
                                    the Sinking Fund was before the Senate two years ago, when the
                                    state of the country demanded reduction more than it does now,
                                    and it was voted down. If he was not mistaken, the majority of
                                    those who favored reduction now, opposed it then. He repeated
                                    the arguments used by those gentlemen then, and said they had
                                    far more force now, when all the necessaries of life had
                                    advanced at least 40 per cent.
                              Mr. WILLIAMS found by reference to the journals of two years ago,
                                    that Messrs. Claypool, March and Blair, who were so anxious now
                                    to reduce the salary of the President of the Sinking Fund, voted
                                    against it then. Now " a change had come o'er
                                    the spirit of their dream." How is this?
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL said the gentleman's argument would compel a
                                    man "once a fool to remain a fool always;" and
                                    contended that the proposition two years ago was only to reduce
                                    the salary of one officer, that of the Sinking Fund President.
                                    This bill equalises all the salaries. He pronounced a glowing
                                    eulogium on Gen. Dumont, the President of the Board two years
                                    ago, and said that his legal services, connected with the duties
                                    of his office were worth more than the entire amount of his
                                    salary. The duties of the office, he contended, were not so
                                    onerous now as they were two years ago.
                              Mr. COBB did not think the salaries too high. The salary of the
                                    President of the Sinking Fund was certainly not too high. The
                                    responsibility was very great, and he was liable on his bond for
                                    all errors. It required great financial ability and great care
                                    to perform the duty. The question of legal ability had little to
                                    do with the question. If legal advice was required, the
                                    President would get it, and he would pay for it. If two years
                                    ago the salaries were not too high, certainly they were not too
                                    high now when the currency had depreciated so greatly.
                              Mr. MARCH said that all the State officers, except the President of
                                    the Sinking Fund, had pocketed the fees of their offices in
                                    defiance of the law. If the bill to prevent this in future was
                                    passed, he would not urge the passage of this bill, but he
                                    thought this bill should not be laid aside until the other was
                                    passed. He thought, however, a salary of $2,000 was sufficient
                                    for any of these officers.
                              Mr. WOLFE. If the gentlemen who were wrong two years ago were right
                                    now he would forgive them. It was better to be right than to be
                                    consistent, but men could be right and consistent both, if they
                                    would. He voted for the reduction two years ago, and he would do
                                    so now. He did not care who were the incumbents. He would pay
                                    Republicans and Democrats alike, if the people chose to elect
                                    them. He did not think a Republican could fill an office as well
                                    as a Democrat, but if the people chose to differ with him and
                                    elect one, he would pay him without question.
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, had always thought that one great evil of
                                    our form of government was the creation of too many officers.
                                    The demand was generally equal to one office for every tenth man
                                    in the community. When these offices were once created, then the
                                    clamor was for salaries or perquisites to command the highest
                                    order of talent," and so we go. There were too many
                                    offices around the Sinking Fund. There was no use for a large
                                    Board of Commissioners. But it is the law, and it was not
                                    proposed to change it now. He was for reducing salaries. He
                                    favored this bill and would give his reasons. Tie spoke at
                                    length, and concluded by declaring his conviction that light and
                                    justice demanded a reduction.
                              Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Downey in the Chair) had been amused at gentlemen
                                    appealing to the record to prove their consistency and
                                    inconsistency. The gentleman from Randolph made a very pretty
                                           speech, and it might
                                    be very effective on the stump to wheedle people out of their
                                    vote? He was in favor of paying for services rendered, and
                                    paying public servants well. He did not believe in working for
                                    charity, to the neglect of a man's family. At home he
                                    worked for pay, and his people understood that he did so. If
                                    they did not wish his services they need not have them. He was
                                    prepared to vote to pay members of this Legislature better for
                                    their services, and he could defend the vote before his people.
                                    He was unwilling to see our State officers reduced to live on a
                                    more pittance. Would gentlemen give up their business at home
                                    and bring their families here, unless they would receive a
                                    salary that would enable them to live respectably ? They would
                                    not. He spoke of the Sinking Fund of its importance to the whole
                                    people of the State, and the onerous duties of the President,
                                    and said that the salary was not one dollar too high. It was not
                                    party feeling with him it was a matter of principle. Two years
                                    ago he had urged members to vote against a red action of
                                    salaries, and two years hence, it the Republicans were in power,
                                    he would do the same thing. He would vote for the report of the
                                    committee.
                              Mr. SHIELDS thought two years ago $2,000 was a sufficient
                                    compensation to the President of the Sinking Fund, and the vote
                                    he should give to-day would be consistent with that. The rise of
                                    all commodities that were used made a salary of $3,000 not worth
                                    more than $1,500 two years ago. He instanced the price of all
                                    articles of consumption, and contended that a decrease would be
                                    grossly unjust. A further depreciation of the currency might
                                    take place, and he entreated gentlemen to pause and reflect. The
                                    responsibility of the office of President of the Sinking Fund
                                    was very great. You must have men who can give a large bond, and
                                    when the people were made safe and felt safe, they were willing
                                    to pay fair salaries. Gentlemen, two years ago, when the
                                    currency was sound, and when the storm was coining, refused to
                                    trim their sails for the financial storm, but now, when the
                                    currency was growing daily more worthless, they propose to
                                    reduce salaries. He would oppose it.
                              Mr. MANSFIELD was in favor of economy, but it was not always
                                    economy to reduce salaries and wages. It was the reverse, often.
                                    It would be unreasonable to ask a man like Gen. Dumont, who
                                    possessed the highest order of talent, to take the management of
                                    millions of the public funds for a mere pittance. The railroads,
                                    the banks, and other corporations, hardly ever thought of giving
                                    their Presidents less than $3,000 per annum. There was no honor
                                    in the office. The reports were never read by the public. They
                                    were glanced over by a few members of the Legislature, and
                                    placed away on the shelves of the library. It was unjust, then,
                                    to ask men to fill these offices at far less than they could
                                    easily make at their private business. What he would give to a
                                    Republican in the way of salary he would give to a Democrat, and
                                    he should vote in favor of the report.
                              The report of the committee was concurred in--yeas 23, nays 16,
                                    excused 1.
                              
                                    DECEDENTS' ESTATES.
                                    The Committee on Judiciary reported back
                                          the bill, [66] amending the act for the settlement of
                                          decedents' estates, with a recommendation that it
                                          pass.
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to concur in the report, with an amendment
                                          striking out that part which requires the widow to publish
                                          a notice that the estate does not exceed $300. He
                                          contended that this provision in the bill would add to the
                                          costs of settling the estates of a class who are illy able
                                          to pay advertising bills, when such notice was
                                          unnecessary.
                                     Mr. WOLFE defended the bill, and claimed that it would not
                                          work to the injury of widows, but would enable
                                          decedents' estates to be more fairly settled than
                                          they could now be done.
                                    Mr. CORBIN opposed the amendment.
                                    The amendment was adopted.
                                    On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS the clause requiring the
                                          publication of the law in the Indianapolis papers was
                                          stricken out.
                                    The report was then concurred in.
                                    A report from the Finance Committee,
                                          recommending that the bill [S. 9] to repeal portions of
                                          the act concerning fees of county officers, recommending
                                          its indefinite postponement, was concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Resolutions of inquiry addressed to appropriate committees,
                                          were offered, read and severally adopted, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. WILSON, whether the amounts collected at various
                                          military camps in the State, in 1862, from the sales of
                                          sutler's stands, have been accounted for to the
                                          proper authorities.
                                    By Mr. WILLIAMS, if there have been any violations of the
                                          embezzlement law, and if so, at what time and by whom.
                                    By Mr. SHIELDS, " into the expediency of so amending
                                          the present law, as to authorize the Board of County
                                          Commissioners to bring suit upon the bonds of defaulting
                                          township trustees, and defining the mode of instituting
                                          such suits."
                                    
                                          PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                          Mr. CORBIN introduced a joint resolution [9]
                                                instructing our Senators in Congress, and requesting
                                                our Representatives, to secure, if possible, pay in
                                                gold for officers and soldiers in the army. And, if
                                                that cannot be done, then to have their pay
                                                increased the amount of the premium on gold, which
                                                was read the first time. 
                                    

                                    

                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. DAVIS, of Parke, [80] to amend the first section
                                                of an act entitled an act concerning inclosures,
                                                trespassing animals and partition services.
                                          By Mr. WOLFE, [87] to amend section 25 of an act
                                                providing for the election or appointment of
                                                Supervisors of Highways, and prescribing certain of
                                                their duties and those of county and township
                                                officers, approved March 5, 1859.
                                          By Mr. BLAIR. [88] supplemental to an act entitled an
                                                act for the encouragement of agriculture, approved
                                                February 17, 1852, and to encourage the organization
                                                of horticultural societies.
                                          By Mr. LANDERS. [89] for the punishment of officers of
                                                elections for receiving the ballots of unqualified
                                                persons, and for counting and returning such votes ;
                                                for abstracting or destroying ballots voted, so that
                                                such votes shall be lost in the count and return ;
                                                for removing ballots voted or substituting others
                                                instead thereof; for changing the names or office
                                                voted for on ballots , for falsely reading or
                                                counting any name or office voted for ; for writing
                                                spurious or false names on any poll book ; for
                                                depositing spurious or false ballots; for making
                                                false counts of votes, and for making false returns
                                                of the votes cast at any election authorized by law
                                                to be held in this State.
                                          By Mr. CLAYPOOL, [90] to authorize the Bank of the
                                                State of Indiana to reduce the capital stock of any
                                                branch or branches of said Bank, audio close up the
                                                business affairs of a branch or branches of said
                                                Bank, under certain regulations, and amendatory of
                                                an act entitled an act to establish a Bank with
                                                branches, passed March 3, 1855.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          Senate bills 79 to 85, and the joint resolution 8,
                                                (introduced yesterday) were read the second time and
                                                appropriately referred ; excepting 82, which was
                                                ordered en-grossed.
                                    
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                          The following described Senate bills were read the
                                                third time and finally passed, to wit:
                                          Mr. Fuller's, [19] requiring that the cost of
                                                all Government stamps used in legal processes be
                                                taxed up with the costs of the suit--yeas 40, nays
                                                none.
                                          Mr. March's, [16] prescribing forms for
                                                conveyances to be made by administrators, executors,
                                                guardians, trustees, or commissioners--by yeas 38,
                                                nays none.
                                          Mr. Hord's, [20] to amend section 33 of the
                                                assessment law, so as to authorize the Collection of
                                                township and special school I taxes from railroad
                                                and other corporations--to yeas 39, nays none.
                                          Mr. Ferguson's [22] to amend section 54 of the
                                                act concerning misdemeanors, so as to fix no penalty
                                                for failing to return marriage licences to the
                                                Clerk's office, and allowing a certificate
                                                of marriage to be returned without being accompanied
                                                by the license--yeas 40, nays none.
                                          Mr. March's, [24] providing for conveyances of
                                                school lands by County Auditors upon certificates
                                                not properly assigned or acknowledged. (The bill
                                                provides that where the purchase money has been all
                                                paid, the courts may hear testimony as to proper
                                                ownership or possession of the land, and order the
                                                Auditor to make a deed.)-- Yeas 39, nays 2.
                                          Mr. Beeson's, [26] to amend the 12th section
                                                of the act touching the relation of guardian and
                                                ward--by yeas 36, nays 4.
                                           Mr. New's, [32] providing for giving notice
                                                to parties to suits whose residences are
                                                unknown--yeas 31, nays 9.
                                          Mr. Gaff's. [30] providing for building and
                                                repairing bridges across streams forming boundary
                                                lines between counties--by yeas 40, nays none.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              THURSDAY, February 5, 1863.
                              The SPEAKER laid before the House a memorial to the delegation in
                                    Congress from Indiana, for the promotion of Captain Thomas
                                    Height, of the 2d Indiana Cavalry, to a Brigadier Generalship.
                                    It was at the suggestion of the Speaker, numerously signed
                              Mr. GREGORY presented, informally, a memorial to the Secretary of
                                    War, for members to sign, asking the promotion of Col. George D.
                                    Wagner to a Brigadier Generalship.
                              Mr. PACKARD opposed the promotion because of a conversation between
                                    Col. Wagner and a German Colonel at the Bates House yesterday.
                                    Col. Wagner had stated that the army would adopt a new policy,
                                    subsist as the navy did, on the property of traitors. The German
                                    Colonel said the army could not do it now. Col. Wagner replied
                                    that he did not propose to confiscate in the rebellious States,
                                    but right here at home. That the traitors right, here at home
                                    should be stripped of their property. Ho would not ask the
                                    promotion of such men.
                              Mr. LEEDS said as the gentleman from Marshall (Mr. Packard) denied
                                    that there were any traitors in the Democratic party, he need
                                    not be very fearful that he would be stripped of his property,
                                    If there were any traitors at the North, he wanted their
                                    property confiscated for war expenses.
                              Mr. NIBLACK thought military men should confine their operations to
                                    rebellious States, and if there were traitors in: the loyal
                                    States, let the civil authorities attend to them. The military
                                    have quite enough to do in the rebel States, more  perhaps, than they will speedily
                                    accomplish. We do not need their services here. He would rather
                                    see his right hand cut off than to sign a petition for the
                                    promotion of an officer expressing such sentiments as Col.
                                    Wagner was reported to have done, nor could any Democrat sign
                                    it.
                              The SPEAKER said the whole matter was entirely informal, not
                                    relating to Legislative business at all, and he had indulged
                                    gentleman only on request. The subject might as well be dropped
                                    here. 
                              Mr. NIBLACK, from the Committee on Ways and
                                          Means, introduced a bill, [39] to raise a
                                    revenue for 1863-4, which was read the first time. 
                              A committee report was concurred in, setting forth that further
                                    legislation in regard tot he collection of debts was
                                    inexpedient.
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. HIGGINS, from the select committee thereon, made another
                                          report concerning the continuation of Drapier's
                                          Brevier Legislative Reports.
                                    The question recurring on the original resolution--see page
                                          55.
                                    Mr. MASON moved to strike out 2/3 of a cent., and insert 1/2
                                          cent.
                                    Mr. LAMB moved to amend by a substitute, to take, instead of
                                          the Reports, there additional copies of the papers now
                                          ordered for members.
                                    On motion by Mr. MILLER, the resolution and pending
                                          amendments were laid on the table.
                                    
                                    
                                          RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY
                                          Were, offered, read and severally adopted. to-wit:
                                          By Mr. SPENCER, relative to the school lands of Posey
                                                county.
                                          By Mr. NIBLACK, asking information of the Governor in
                                                regard to the appointment and dismissal of sutlers
                                                at various posts.
                                          By Mr. LEMMON, of Spencer, asking of the Governor
                                                information as to the destruction of the Rockport
                                                Democrat, and by what authority the 5th cavalry are
                                                stationed at Rockport.
                                          By Mr. MOORMAN, as to the propriety of passing a law
                                                giving 120 days for the redemption of lands sold
                                                under sinking fund mortgages
                                          By Mr. PACKARD, by what authority military commanders
                                                in other States banish citizens of such States and
                                                send them here for an indefinite length of time.
                                          By Mr. DONALDSON, requesting the State Auditor to
                                                report the enumeration of white male inhabitants of
                                                this State.
                                          By Mr. NEWMAN, in favor of securing to soldiers their
                                                back pay.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                           Mr. ANDERSON introduced a joint resolution [27]
                                                instructing the Indiana Congressional Delegation to
                                                favor a reduction of the duties on imported paper,
                                                which was read the first time.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK introduced a bill. [140] authorizing the
                                                Chairmen of Committees of the House, or Joint
                                                Committees, to administer oaths to witnesses, which
                                                was read three times, under a suspension of the
                                                rules, and finally passed without opposition.
                                    
                                    
                                          EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
                                          Mr. HANNA introduced a bill, [141] to create an
                                                executive council. It is as follows:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  AN ACT to create an Executive Council and to
                                                  define the duties thereof.
                                                  SECTION 1. Be it enacted by the
                                                  General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                                                  That the Secretary of State, Auditor and Treasurer
                                                  of State, and Attorney General shall constitute
                                                  the Council of the Governor, and shall be known
                                                  and designated as "the Executive Council
                                                  "
                                                  SEC. 2. The Secretary of State shall he the
                                                  President, and the Attorney General the Secretary
                                                  Of the Executive Council, and the signatures of a
                                                  majority of the Council shall be attached to all
                                                  official papers issued by the same. When, however,
                                                  the Governor shall be present at a session of the
                                                  Council, he may preside, and in case of a tie, may
                                                  give the casting vote.
                                                  SEC. 3. The Executive Council shall consult,
                                                  and the assent of a majority thereof be obtained,
                                                  before any pardon shall be granted, and the
                                                  Council, as such, shall discharge all other duties
                                                  imposed on them bylaw; they may hold their
                                                  sessions whenever the public interest may require
                                                  it, any two members thereof having the power to
                                                  call a meeting.
                                                  SEC. 4. It is declared that an emergency exists
                                                  for the immediate taking effect of this act, and
                                                  therefore this act shall be in force and take
                                                  effect from and after its passage.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. CASON said the bill was simply a covering to hide
                                                the attempt to strip from the Governor,his executive
                                                powers. It required their consent, signature and
                                                seal to the executive acts of the Governor. It was
                                                urged that we pass it, and let the Supreme Court
                                                decide its constitutionality. It was the right and
                                                duty of the members of this House to decide the
                                                constitutionality of all laws, and they were sworn
                                                to perform this duty. The Supreme Court had no right
                                                to pass upon laws till the House had determined
                                                their constitutionality. As this bill was, in his
                                                view, the first step toward the consummation of a
                                                very important measure, he wanted at this early
                                                moment to assert his disapproval of what, in his
                                                judgment, was sure to follow. He, therefore, without
                                                any desire to seem discourteous toward the gentleman
                                                from Vigo, who had offered the bill, would move to
                                                reject it.
                                          Mr. HANNA partly agreed with the gentleman from Boone
                                                and Hendricks (Mr. Cason)--it was an important
                                                measure--important in itself, and more especially so
                                                because it had its origin in the constitution, the
                                                fountain-head of all the legislation which members
                                                on this floor could hope to establish for the
                                                government of the people of Indiana. And that he
                                                might be fully understood in his position, he  would call the
                                                attention of gentlemen of the other side of the
                                                House to section XVII, of article V of the
                                                Constitution, as the latter clause of that section,
                                                in defining the measure of power granted to the
                                                Executive, declares " that the General
                                                Assembly may by law constitute a Council, to be
                                                composed of officers of State, without whose advice
                                                and consent the Governor shall not have power to
                                                grant pardons in any case, except such as may by law
                                                be left to his sole power." He was not
                                                afraid to legislate within the provisions of the
                                                Constitution ; thus far this body had a right to
                                                go--no farther--and he understood the bill to be
                                                drawn within the strict meaning of the
                                                Constitution.
                                          Mr. GRIFFITH wanted to know how this had been
                                                ascertained.
                                          Mr. HANNA. There it is--read it--it has been published
                                                to the world--it will stand or fall by the ordeal of
                                                the Supreme Court, whose province it is to pass upon
                                                its validity.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK argued against the motion. If the bill was
                                                objectionable, it could be amended, and upon the
                                                third reading defeated. It was an unusual proceeding
                                                to move the rejection of the bill.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM said no such measure as the one proposed
                                                should be entertained now. The excited state of
                                                public feeling ought to preclude it.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK. (interrupting) I ask the gentleman from
                                                Jefferson (Mr. Branham) if he had not,in a public
                                                speech at Columbus, on Saturday last, threatened
                                                members who should vote for any such proposition
                                                with hanging ?
                                          Mr. BRANHAM, in reply, complained of the assaults upon
                                                the Governor ; upon officers, particularly burgeons
                                                in the army. Why was this done? Taking them
                                                altogether they meant something. They meant violent
                                                opposition to the Government. If the dominant party
                                                sought to violate the constitution--sought to strip
                                                the Executive of his rightful power; he, for one,
                                                would return to this hall, if he left it, and was
                                                forced back by those who would thus trample down the
                                                laws, only to assist in hanging those who would
                                                attempt to do it. That was what he had said at
                                                Columbus ; nothing more , nothing less. He did not
                                                propose to threaten any member of the House. Neither
                                                did he intend that any threats should deter him. He
                                                had taken his position calmly and determinedly.-- He
                                                had resolved at the commencement of the session that
                                                he would do nothing to wound the feelings of any
                                                member on the floor. He had determined that no act
                                                of his should have a tendency to inflame the public
                                                mind, now already fearfully excited with what we had
                                                done and left undone here. When the question came
                                                up, whether we should stand by the glorious flag of
                                                our country or perish, he would stand there or
                                                perish. We must stand by our soldiers in the field.
                                                We must redeem our pledges made to them when they
                                                left us. We must redeem our pledges to the loyal
                                                people of the State.
                                          Mr. PRIEST (interrupting) asked the gentleman if he
                                                would not take the decision of the majority on all
                                                questions.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. No, sir. If this Legislature should
                                                resolve to take Indiana out of the Union I would
                                                resist it to the last. I would submit in this matter
                                                to the judgment of no set of men in God's
                                                universe.
                                          Mr. HOWARD asked the gentleman if he really supposed
                                                that there was a purpose on the part of anybody to
                                                take the State of Indiana out of the Union?
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. What mean all the resolutions and measures
                                                the majority have introduced here ? What mean their
                                                denunciations of the Administration, State and
                                                National? What mean your denunciations of officers
                                                in the army--the Surgeons?
                                          Mr. HOWARD. Does the gentleman take these things as
                                                conclusive evidence?
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. I do.
                                          Mr. LASSELLE. Can the Legislature take the State out of
                                                the Union ?
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. It can, as the Legislatures of the rebel
                                                States did against the voice of the people. He had
                                                said that if secession was attempted here, and the
                                                majority undertook to bring the minority back into
                                                the House, he would not come back to the House
                                                except to take the majority and hang them. He
                                                repeated it, now. The nation could be sustained by
                                                men, money, and moral sentiment. And the course of
                                                the majority tended to destroy moral sentiment, the
                                                strongest arm of the nation.
                                          The SPEAKER (Mr. Branham proceeding with some
                                                vehemence) reminded the gentleman and the House of
                                                the rules of decorum within which debate must be
                                                confined.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK hoped the gentleman would be allowed to
                                                proceed. There never was a cooler set of men or a
                                                set of less scared men than the majority on this
                                                floor now.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM proceeded. Ho did say clown at Columbus
                                                something about secret orders. Gentlemen knew that
                                                they existed. If it was necessary, perhaps he could
                                                name the lodges.
                                          VOICES--" Name them ! Name them !
                                           Mr. BRANHAM. You will hear of them soon enough in
                                                another form.
                                          VOICES--"What form? No threats
                                                here!"
                                          The SPEAKER here called gentlemen to order.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK. Did not the gentleman state at Columbus
                                                that the majority on this floor were in
                                                communication with Jeff Davis through an emissary,
                                                who had been in their council room ? 

                                          

                                          Mr. BRANHAM. I did say at Columbus, and I had it from
                                                the high priest of the temple himself, that it was
                                                the design of the majority to take such a stand as
                                                to bring the moral power of the Government and its
                                                financial standing into utter ruin. I spoke of
                                                secret orders. Members on this floor know of their
                                                existence as well as myself. They have been in
                                                them.
                                          Mr. ABBETTT. Do you belong to any secret political
                                                order ?
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. I do not. I did not say that the majority
                                                of this House were in consultation with Jeff. Davis,
                                                but that an emissary of Jeff. Davis was in
                                                consultation with members of this House on a certain
                                                night.
                                          Mr. PRIEST. Name them. If there are any members in
                                                consultation with an emissary of the Southern
                                                Confederacy, I would vote to expel them.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. I said it was a gentleman from the
                                                Southern States in consultation with members of this
                                                House. The gentlemen in consultation with him knew
                                                his object.
                                           Mr. BUSKIRK, (Mr. Lasselle in the Chair) said it was
                                                an imputation upon the House, and he asked that the
                                                House be told who the parties were.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. I will do that when I get ready.
                                          Mr. BUSKIRK. Name the gentleman on this floor with whom
                                                he conferred.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. I will do that also when I get ready.
                                          Mr. BUSKIRK. The gentleman then refuses to answer my
                                                questions, and give the House the information he
                                                professes to have ?
                                          Mr. BRANHAM. I do.
                                          VOICES--" We do not believe you
                                                then."
                                          Mr. BRANHAM did not wish to threaten any one ; but If
                                                it was a threat to say that we intended to stand by
                                                the Constitution and the old flag, it might be so
                                                taken, for we intended to do that thing, though all
                                                should go to ruin around us. The majority had
                                                refused to lay such resolutions on the table--a test
                                                vote by which they had endorsed them. The effect of
                                                such resolutions was to destroy the confidence of
                                                the people in the government, and would give aid to
                                                traitors. You cannot introduce measure after
                                                measure, some of which are in direct conflict with
                                                the State Constitution, with any other intention
                                                than to cripple the Government. Such a lull as this
                                                has never been introduced before, because it was not
                                                needed. Nor is it needed now. Like men and patriots,
                                                we should confine oar legislation to the legitimate
                                                subjects of legislation, allay excitement, and give
                                                our moral support to the government, and it will
                                                succeed, despite all the efforts of traitors and the
                                                tyrants of the Old World.
                                           Mr. BRANHAM demanded the previous question.
                                          The House sustained the demand.
                                          The main question being on the motion to reject the
                                                bill--
                                          The yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and
                                                taken, resulted-- yeas 40, nays 50, as follows:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Abdill,
                                                  Anderson, Atkison, Baker Branham, Budd, Byerle,
                                                  Cason, Cass, Chambers, Davis, Forester, Gregg,
                                                  Gregory, Griffith, Hershey, Higgins, Hostetter,
                                                  Hutchings, James, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick, Lamb,
                                                  Leeds, Marshall, Moorman, Morgan, Mustard, Newman,
                                                  Noyes, O'Brien, of Hamilton, Perry,
                                                  Pettibone, Robinson, Roe, Stone, Tarkington, Van
                                                  Buskirk and Woodruff--40.
                                                  NAYSM--Messrs. Abbett, Bird,
                                                  Blocher, Burton, Collins, Cook, Donaldson, Ferris,
                                                  Garvin, Given, Hall, Hanna, Harden, of Washington,
                                                  Hardin of Perry, Karney, Hetfield, Hon, Howard,
                                                  Howell, Howk, Humphreys, Kemp, of Dubois, Kemp, of
                                                  Vigo, Lake, Lasselle, Lee, Lemmon, of Harrison,
                                                  Lemmon, of Spencer, Mason, McGauchey, Miller,
                                                  Milroy, Mutz, Niblack, Osborn, Packard, Pendleton,
                                                  Priest, Puett, Richardson, Ryan, Shaffer, of
                                                  Allen, Shoaff, of Jay, Spencer, Veach, Waterman,
                                                  Williams, Wolfe and Mr. Speaker--50.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          So the bill was not rejected.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed to the second reading
                                                :
                                          By Mr. GARVIN [142] amending the 656th section of the
                                                practice act.
                                          By Mr. LAMB, [143] authorizing County Auditors to issue
                                                fee bills in certain cases.
                                          By Mr. MOORMAN, [144] amending the 46th section of the
                                                common school law.
                                          By Mr. BYERLE, [145] for the relief of George
                                                Arnold.
                                          By Mr. WATERMAN, [148] providing for Assistant
                                                Prosecutors and for counsel for prisoners in certain
                                                cases.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, February 6, 1863.
                              
                              The Committee on Banks returned the bill [S. 60]
                                    requiring banks to stamp all counterfeit notes, recommending
                                    that it be laid on the table.
                              The report was concurred in.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITION'S.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally parked to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. SHIELDS, [91] to amend the 1st section of an act
                                          authorizing; appeals from Circuit Courts to the Supreme
                                          Court in contested election cases, approved March 2,
                                          1859.
                                     By Mr. WILSON, [92] to empower banks organized, and amend an
                                          act to authorize and regulate the business of general
                                          banking, passed March 3, 1855, and prescribing the terms
                                          and manner of doing the same.
                                    By Mr. HOAGLAND, [93] to extend the time for the completion
                                          of railroads in all cases in which $2,000 per mile has
                                          been expended in their construction, and declaring at what
                                          time this act shall take effect. (Read twice under a
                                          suspension of the rules.

                                    

                                    By Mr. GRAVES, [04] for the relief of purchasers of swamp
                                          lands, when the sale and conveyance thereof was invalid
                                          and conveyed no good and sufficient title therefor, or
                                          when the title to such lands may have failed after the
                                          sale thereof, and declaring when this act shall take
                                          effect. 
                                    By Mr. TEEGARDEN. [95] supplemental to an act regulating the
                                          interest on money, and to repeal an act entitled
                                          "an act concerning interest on money,"
                                          an act defining misdemeanors and prescribing punishment
                                          therefor, approved January 14, 1861, and all other laws
                                          and parts of laws in conflict therewith approved March 7,
                                          1861.
                                    By Mr. MARCH, [96] requiring the Clerk of the Common Pleas
                                          and Circuit Courts and county Auditors to make indexes in
                                          certain cases.
                                    By Mr. HARTLEY, [97] a bill to provide for the regulation of
                                          fare charged by railroad corporations or companies for the
                                          transportation of passengers on railroads, and prescribing
                                          penalties for the violation of this act.
                                    House bills 18, 22. (see page 46.) 28, 29, (see page 50.) and
                                          59 (see page 57) were severally read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    Senate bills numbered 86 to 90 inclusive (introduced
                                          yesterday) were read the second time and referred to
                                          appropriate committees.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    The following described Senate bills were read the third time
                                          and finally passed, unless otherwise stated:
                                    Mr. March's [33] prescribing forms for Sheriffs and
                                          Coroner's deeds yeas 40, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Ferguson's [35] to amend the act defining what
                                          shall constitute a felony; failed to pass yeas 17, nays
                                          23.
                                    Mr. Downey's [28] amending the act providing for
                                          special terms of courts, by yeas 41, nays 0.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. BROWNE of Randolph introduced a resolution instructing
                                          the Finance Committee to inquire into
                                          the expediency of affording relief to borrowers of Sinking
                                          Fund by providing to relieve them from paying one fifth of
                                          the principal, annually, as now required.
                                    The resolution was adopted.
                                    House bills 4 (see page 34) and 140 (introduced yesterday)
                                          were read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced. read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading :
                                    By Mr. BEARSS, [98] to repeal all provisions of acts of
                                          incorporations heretofore passed requiring any companies
                                          or corporations to complete any plank road, gravel road or
                                          McAdamized road, and authorizing said companies in certain
                                          cases to collect tolls on said roads.
                                    By Mr. WOLFE, [99] to provide for issuing fee bills and
                                          executions against sureties in cases appealed to the
                                          Circuit or Common Pleas Courts.
                                    By Mr. FERGUSON, [100] to authorize the deposition of parties
                                          in actions to be taken and read in evidence.
                                    By Mr. WOLFE [101] to amend section 40 of the practice
                                          act.
                                    By Mr. RAY, [102] to authorize the Board of Directors of the
                                          Bank of the State of Indiana, to remove any of its
                                          branches for the redemption of the notes of such branches,
                                          and providing the conditions upon which this act shall
                                          take effect .
                                    On motion by Mr. WOLFE, the Senate at 3 o'clock p
                                          m., took a recess for one hour.
                                    At four o'clock, the Senate met again, and without
                                          transacting any business, adjourned.
                              
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1863.
                              
                              The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                    severally passed to the second reading, to-wit:
                              By Mr. GARVIN, [147] to amend the 655th section of the practice
                                    act.
                              By Mr. HOWK, [149] an act supplemental to the act incorporating
                                    mining and manufacturing companies.
                              
                                    PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                    The Governor sent in a communication stating that on account
                                          of the immense draft on the Treasury of the United States,
                                          Government had not been able to pay soldier promptly.
                                          Funds had been provided to pay them up to November 1st.
                                          The mode of paying them but once in two months was a
                                          source of distress to soldiers' families. He
                                          recommended that the State advance the pay to the soldiers
                                          in behalf of the United States, a plan for which he
                                          submitted; which was referred on motion of Mr. NIBLACK, to
                                                Committee on Ways and Means.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    The following described bills were read the third time and
                                          finally passed the House:
                                    Mr. Niblack's [H. R. 66] concerning the Wabash
                                          Navigation Company authorizing it to raise money for
                                          repairs, by yeas 75, nays 10.
                                    Mr. Atkison's, [H. R. 20] amending section 46 of the
                                          Common School Law; (as the law now stands
                                          non-residents' property cannot be taxed in school
                                          districts for building purposes; this bill allows all non-
                                                 residents
                                          property to be taxed in districts where it is situated;)
                                          by yeas 74, nays 10.
                                    Mr. Perry's, [H. R. 44] Relative to time of holding
                                          Courts of Common Pleas in Franklin, Fayette, Wayne and
                                          Union counties; by yeas 83, nays 1.
                                    Mr. Leed's, [H.R.54] authorizing county officers to
                                          expose for sale whatever they have to sell at other places
                                          than the Court house door relative to sales on delinquent
                                          taxes by Auditors; by yeas 82, nays 5.
                                    Mr. Anderson's, [H. R. 69] regulating the duties of
                                          State Librarian, (it does not allow any book from the
                                          Library to be taken out side of the Capital building,) by
                                          yeas 82, nays 2.
                                    Mr. McGauchey's, [H. R. 95] relative to the times of
                                          holding courts in Adams, Wells, Huntington and Allen
                                          counties; by yeas 89, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Dickinson's [S. 10] amending section 9 of an act
                                          concerning voluntary associations; by yeas 83, nays 2.
                              
                              
                                    PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                     Mr. Packard introduced a joint resolution (28) instructing
                                          the Indiana delegation to secure the enactment of a law
                                          which will pay soldiers in gold, or its equivalent in
                                          currency, which was read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    On motion by Mr. ROBERTS, (H.R.35) to extend the term of
                                          township trustees from one to two years, was taken from
                                          the table and ordered to be engrossed.
                                    On motion by Mr. Hardin, of Perry, the bill (H. R. 95) on the
                                          collection of delinquent taxes, was taken from the table,
                                          and referred to a select committee of five.
                              
                              
                                    EMISSARIES OF JEFF. DAVIS.
                                    Mr. BROWN offered the following.

                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, It has been charged
                                                  upon the floor of this House, "that an
                                                  emissary of Jeff. Davis (meaning Jefferson Davis,
                                                  President of the Southern Confederacy) was in
                                                  consultation with members of this House on a
                                                  certain night," therefore, be it
                                                  Resolved, That a select
                                                  committee of three be appointed by the Speaker of
                                                  this House to ascertain and report to this House
                                                  as soon as practicable, whether any members of
                                                  this House have been in consultation with any such
                                                  emissary, and if they have been, who such members
                                                  are, when and where they had such consultation,
                                                  and for what purpose they had the same.
                                                  Resolved, That said committee be
                                                  empowered to send for witnesses, compel
                                                  attendance, and examine said witnesses upon oat in
                                                  reference to the matters set forth in the
                                                  foregoing preamble and resolutions.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. BROWN said if any member had been in consultation with
                                          any Southern traitor for treasonable purposes, he was for
                                          expelling him. It had been charged that such a fact by a
                                          responsible member on this floor. If there was a traitor
                                          here, he (Mr. Brown) was for expelling him from this
                                          honorable body. He for one, and neither would any other
                                          Democrat, tolerate any communication with traits.
                                    Mr. CASON moved to table the resolutions. The House had heard
                                          enough on this subject.
                                    Mr. BROWN and Mr. MILLER demanded the yeas and nays on the
                                          motion.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM asked to be excused from voting. 
                                    The House refused consent.
                                    Mr. Branham. "Then I will excuse myself."
                                          (Putting on his hate and walking into the lobby )
                                    Some further discussion was had, in which Messrs. TARKINGTON,
                                          BROWN, MILROY and NIBLACK participated when--
                                    The SPEAKER decided upon putting the vote again to excuse the
                                          gentleman from Jefferson (Mr. Branham) from voting and he
                                          was excused.
                                    The motion to lay the resolution on the table was rejected by
                                          yeas 27, nays 58.
                                    Mr. PACKARD thought that a most important matter was charges
                                          of disloyalty against members on this floor. They had been
                                          made. The majority on this floor should show to the
                                          contrary that these charges exist only in the imagination
                                          of the gentlemen who had made them. He courted
                                          investigation. He demanded it. If there was a traitor he
                                          would be the first man to vote for his expulsion, and
                                          would labor to bring him to consign punishment thereafter.
                                          This charge came from the Abolitionists only.
                                    Mr. GREGORY hurled back the imputation of being an
                                          abolitionist. He knew great excitement existed. He hoped
                                          gentleman on both sides would cease reference to exciting
                                          topics. He did hope and trust that gentlemen would defer
                                          all such matters, and go to work on practical legislation.
                                          It was all important that this should be done.
                                    Mr. ATKISON offered an amendment making David C. Branham (the
                                          gentleman from Jefferson) a member of the committee, which
                                          the understanding that he was also to set as a witness. He
                                          did not apprehend that the investigation proposed would
                                          cost much. The only witness would probably be David C.
                                          Branham.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK attached some degree of importance to the charge
                                          made by Mr. Branham yesterday. He (Mr. Branham) was not
                                          the sort of man to make charges that he could not sustain.
                                          It was a serious thing publicly, in legislative halls, to
                                          stigmatize men as traitors. As to the slang party phrases
                                          of "Abolitionists,"
                                          "Copperhead,"
                                          "Butternut," he cared nothing about
                                          them. But the charge of traitor brought by one member on
                                          this floor against other members ought to be investigated.
                                          The question was, what were we, true and loyal men or not?
                                          If we were not, he wanted to know it, and therefore he
                                          should vote for the resolution.

                                    

                                    Mr. ANDERSON referred to the truce of peace declared a few
                                          days ago, and to the Democrats having adopted
                                          Beauregard's order to call all Union men of the
                                          North Abolitionists.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK said his order embraced the Democrats too.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON thought their course indicated that they wished
                                          to keep on good terms with him, and compromise with
                                          him.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK said, as the charge of wanting to fix op matters
                                          with the rebels had been made, he demanded the authority
                                          on which it was made.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON referred to several matters which looked like
                                          fixing up. He was informed that certain numbers of this
                                          House and of the Senate were recently in one of the
                                          northern counties of this State, where there was held a
                                          convocation of the faithful One gentleman said the objects
                                          and the intentions of the Democratic members of the
                                          Legislatures of this State and of Illinois was to petition
                                          President Lincoln to grant an armistice with the rebels.
                                          In case he refused to do this these Western States
                                          intended to make peace on their own accent,
                                    VOICES. Who is he?
                                    Mr. ANDERSON. I understand the gentleman represents the
                                          counties of Marshall and Starke.
                                    Mr. PACKARD. The report is totally and unqualifiedly
                                          false.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON. I understood further that the gentleman
                                          regarded President Lincoln and Governor Morton as despots
                                          and tyrants worse that those of Austria.
                                    Mr. PACKARD. That's so.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON. Also, that so far as the Executive of this
                                          State was concerned, they intended to shear him of his
                                          power by the appointment of a Military Board who, would
                                          take the military power cut of his hands.
                                    Mr. PACKARD. That is nearly correct.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON took such a wide range in his remarks that he
                                          was called to order from all parts of the House.
                                    The SPEAKER (Mr. Moorman in the Chair) said the gentleman was
                                          certainly taking a great deal of latitude. He hoped he
                                          would confine himself to the question.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON. I was simply answering the question put to me
                                          by the gentleman from Knox (Mr. Niblack.)
                                    Mr. NIBLACK, The gentleman stated that there were gentlemen
                                          on this floor who sought to compromise with rebels. I
                                          asked him for his authority--his proof.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON. Do you suppose if a man was in connection with
                                          rebels--if he knew anything to the schemes of traitors in
                                          the North, he would tell you anything about it?
                                    Mr. BROWN. Suppose David C. Branham is summoned before the
                                                Investigating Committee and he is
                                          questioned with regard to what he had paid in this House
                                          on yesterday, don't you suppose he would answer?
                                          Of course he would.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON returned to the question of an armistice.
                                          Although the gentleman of the majority had disclaimed
                                          responsibility for the resolutions offered and speeches
                                          made on this floor by gentlemen who have been regarded as
                                          leaders of the party, they have been sustained by their
                                          votes. The party are responsible for them. As for an
                                          armistice, nothing is more desired by the rebels. It will
                                          give them the proper breathing time to recruit for another
                                          campaign. How stand the majority of the Democratic party
                                          on this question? Gentlemen have been cautious in
                                          expressing their views, and in committing themselves by
                                          the passage of resolutions. They seem to have been holding
                                          lack to obtain an expression from the people, and if they
                                          think the people will sustain their: they will declare for
                                          an armistice. Speeches made by their party leaders, whom
                                          they delight to honor, show it. Judge Perkins has declared
                                          in its favor. Your organ in this city favors an
                                          armistice.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK. We do not care to know anything about compromise
                                          with rebels, but whether any one here had had treasonable
                                          communications with traitors.
                                     Mr. ANDERSON referred to the difficulty of getting proof of
                                          the disloyalty of members, When a short time ago it was
                                          proposed to investigate the question of secret disloyal
                                          societies, it was argued by members of the majority that
                                          if sworn as witnesses members of such societies would have
                                          no hesitation in perjuring themselves. It was just as
                                          proper to conclude that if members were disloyal, they
                                          would have no higher regard for their oath. The committee
                                          might find it very difficult to obtain legal proof. The
                                          investigation was as likely to be fruitless in one case as
                                          in the other.
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK, (Mr. Moorman in the Chair.) The gentleman from
                                          Jefferson made a charge of treason yesterday against some
                                          of the members of this House. It was a grave charge, and
                                          if true or untrue the country should know the fact. The
                                          gentleman should retract the charge or prove it. If he had
                                          named the member it would have relieved the 57 or 58 other
                                          members of the majority on this floor from its odium. Now,
                                          it attaches to the whole majority, and I am not willing to
                                          rest under it. Having been in consultation with members of
                                          both Houses, he denied that a word had been uttered by any
                                          one in favor of taking the State out of the Union. Nor
                                          were they in favor of a North-Western Confederacy. The
                                          gentlemen from St. Joseph had spoken of an armistice. He
                                          gave notice that when the majority were ready to state
                                          their opinion on 
                                          they would do it, so as to be understood by the country.
                                          We will speak as one man. There will be no diversity. How
                                          we will speak it is not proper for me to say. No
                                          resolution has been introduced or action taken which will
                                          justify any one in saying that we are in favor of an
                                          armistice. Unwise and impolitic resolutions have been
                                          introduced into the House, but I deny responsibility for
                                          them until we adopt them.
                                    Mr. VAN BUSKIRK. I understand the gentleman to say that when
                                          the majority spoke out on the subject of an armistice,
                                          they would do it as one man, but that he does not know how
                                          they will speak. How does he know they will speak as one
                                          man?
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK. The votes taken in the House completely answer
                                          that. We are a band of brothers. We vote together, act
                                          together, think together, and we expect to do it as long
                                          as we remain. Even if some of them go for measures I
                                          don't endorse. I will go with my party rather
                                          than the opposition.
                                    Mr. LEEDS. If you knew your party were going wrong, would you
                                          go with them?
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK. If the question was loyalty to my party or the
                                          government. I would sustain my country against the party.
                                          But I believe I can best support my country inside of the
                                          party, and in concert with it. The administration is not
                                          the government. We have the right to oppose the policy and
                                          principles of the administration, and we do oppose
                                          them.
                                    Mr. CASON asked if the Confederacy was recognized would the
                                          gentleman consider it the duty of Indiana to stand by the
                                          Union?
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK denied the right of secession. If the Confederacy
                                          should be recognized it would not absolve Indiana from its
                                          allegiance. He regarded the idea of a North Western
                                          Confederacy as a myth.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON asked if Mr. Hendricks did not, on the 8th of
                                          January, at a Democratic Convention, advocate such a
                                          Confederacy?
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK did not understand the matter as the gentleman
                                          from St. Joseph did. As he understood the speech, he
                                          endorsed H. He considered the tariff laws forced on the
                                          Northwest by New England, oppressive and unjust. If the
                                          confederacy is recognized he would remain in the Union,
                                          and demand of New England the repeal of such laws. If they
                                          will not repeal them, then the time will come when we must
                                          determine what we will do, rather than submit to be ground
                                          into the dust by the New England States.
                                     Mr. NOYES. If the tariff is continued by legal and
                                          constitutional means, will the time ever come when you can
                                          secede?
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK denied the right of secession. But there is a
                                          right of revolution, not according to the Constitution,
                                          but independent of all Constitutions, all laws, all
                                          governments. If the people of the Northwest corny to the
                                          conclusion thai those laws are too unjust and oppressive
                                          to be borne they may rebel, and will decide then what to
                                          do. He did not believe the traitors of the South had any
                                          justifiable cause of secession. He denied that the
                                          Democrats favored mob law. But let the minority inaugurate
                                          civil war, and we go down in a common ruin.
                                    In conclusion he would simply say to the gentleman from
                                          Jefferson (Mr. Branham) that when he made threats of
                                          hanging against members on this floor if they voted for a
                                          certain measure, he would find the majority ready to
                                          defend their rights. That gentleman and those who acted
                                          with him should take warning from the lessons of history.
                                          When they commence hanging us they had better be looking
                                          out for their own necks. If the Republican party
                                          inaugurated civil war--and the first act must come from
                                          them--on the very first motion there would be such a
                                          gathering of the clans throughout the State as the world
                                          never saw before. And he honestly believed, if the course
                                          pursued by the republicans was persisted in, civil war
                                          would come. They stigmatized Democrats as traitors--they
                                          talk about Democrats taking the Arsenal--they talk about
                                          Democrats encouraging desertions--about their desiring to
                                          take the State out of thu Union--and threaten to bring the
                                          military into this hall! By the charges of those in the
                                          interest of the administration, a strong belief was
                                          entertained by the people throughout the State that they
                                          proposed to drive the Democrats to some act of violence.
                                          But as he had said, the overt act must come from the
                                          republicans. The majority were cool, calm, not
                                          intimidated, and determined to maintain their rights.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM stated that he was satisfied he could convince
                                          the committee that he had good ground for what he had
                                          stated. He repeated the history of what he had said at
                                          Columbus and on yesterday. He had threatened no one. He
                                          had always said he would allow the majority to pass any
                                          legal or constitutional measure, but would resist any act
                                          of secession at all hazards.
                                    Mr. BROWN asked if he said that an emissary of Jeff. Davis
                                          was here in consultation with members.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM. He had said a gentleman from the south came
                                          here, with the resolutions favoring an armistice, and
                                          consul ted with members, avowing that the object was to
                                          cripple the government. The resolutions were introduced at
                                          his instance. He intended their effect should be to compel
                                          the government to declare an armistice.

                                    

                                    Mr. BROWN followed in support of his resolution. He wanted to
                                          give the honorable gentleman from Jefferson, (Mr.
                                          Branham,) a chance of ventilating his skirts with regard
                                          to the charges he had made against Democrats. If he was
                                          mistaken, as he would find himself upon investigation, he
                                          (Mr. Brown) should expect of him to come in here and make
                                          the suitable and necessary retraction and apology.
                                    Mr. CASON objected to the committee. 1. Because he doubted
                                          the power of the House to hold a member to account for his
                                          speeches. 2. No specific charge had been made. 3. It was
                                          proposed to raise a committee to investigate where they
                                          were directly interested in the result.
                                    The amendment (Mr. Atkison's) was rejected.
                                    The resolution was then adopted by yeas 58, nays 25.
                              
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, February 7, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. RAY presented a petition from citizens of Marion county, asking
                                    the passage of laws to enforce the 13th article of the
                                    Constitution, which was read and referred to the
                                          Committee on Rights and Privileges.
                              
                                    JUDGES' CHARGE TO JURIES.
                                    Mr. CORBIN, from the Committee on Organization of
                                                Courts, returned the resolution (Mr.
                                          McClurg's), printed on page 55 of these Reports,
                                          "with the recommendation that further legislation
                                          thereon is inexpedient." The report was concurred
                                          in.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    Were introduced, read the first time, and passed to the
                                          second reading, to wit:
                                    By Mr. COBB. joint resolution [10] in relation to the
                                          enlistment and arming of negroes.
                                    By Mr. LANDERS,a bill [103] to amend sections 18 and 20 of
                                          the law in relation to general elections, approved June 7,
                                          1852.
                              
                              
                                     BILLS ON THE THIRD HEADING.
                                    The following described Senate bills were read the third time
                                          and finally passed:
                                    Mr. March's, [3D] to amend the third section of the
                                          act regulating the duties of Justices in Stats
                                          prosecutions--yeas 36, nays 1.
                                    Mr. March's, [5?] to amend the 55th section of the
                                          general banking law (The bill provides that the amount
                                          paid by fee banks to reimburse the State for the amount
                                          advanced for expenditures of the Banking Department be
                                          paid into the Treasury to the credit of the General Fund,
                                          and not into the pockets of State officers)--by yeas 38,
                                          nays none.
                                    Mr. William's, [51] to amend section 2 of the law
                                          regulating salaries; of State officers so as to provide
                                          for their payment at the end of each quarter, instead of
                                          in advance--by yeas 40, nays none.
                                    Mr. New's, [f 2] to amend section 1 of the law
                                          authorizing the organization of Building Fund and Loan
                                          Associations--by yeas 31, nays 3.
                                    Mr. Wolfe's, [GO] to amend the 134th section of the
                                          law concerning the settlement of decedents'
                                          estates--by yeas 41, nays none.
                                    Mr. Mellett's, [69] to amend the 76th section of the
                                          law concerning decedents' estates--by yeas 31,
                                          nays 9.
                                    Mr. March's. [82] to repeal the act authorizing the
                                          Bank of the State to establish five additional
                                          branches--by yeas 27, nays 11.
                                    Mr. Wolfe's. (87) to amend section 25 of the act
                                          concerning supervisors of roads--by yeas 33, nays 5.
                                    Mr. Claypool's, (90) to authorize the Bank of the
                                          State to reduce the capital stock of and close up any
                                          branch bank--by yeas 29, nays 9.
                                    Mr. Grubb's, (73) to amend the 14th section of the
                                          act concerning plank and gravel roads--by yeas 37, nays 1,
                                          excused 1.
                                    Mr. News, joint resolution, (5) instructing the Indiana
                                          delegation in Congress to vote for a law to pay bounty to
                                          discharged and disabled soldiers--by yeas 38, nays 0.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES
                                    Senate bills numbered 91 to 102 inclusive (introduced
                                          yesterday and the day before), and House bills 4, (see
                                          page 31;) 18, 22, (p. 46;) 28, 29, (p. 50;) and 140,
                                          (introduced day before yesterday) were read the second
                                          time and appropriately referred; except S.102 and H. R.
                                          110, which were ordered engrossed.
                                     The House concurrent resolution in relation to the pay of
                                          volunteers was taken up and concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The Senate met and--no quorum being present--adjourned,
                                          without transacting any business.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, February 7, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. Hanna offered the following:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                WHEREAS, His Excellency
                                                  Governor O. P. Morton in his special message to
                                                  the legislative department of the State of
                                                  Indiana, of February 4th 1863, has advised that
                                                  negotiations be instituted with the Secretary of
                                                  the Treasury and the Paymaster General of the
                                                  United States, to the end that the State of
                                                  Indiana may assume the payment of the amounts, now
                                                  in arrears, due the soildiery thereof, as well as
                                                  to insure more prompt payment in the future; said
                                                  Secretary and Paymaster agreeing to reimburse such
                                                  parties as may be willing to advance said money
                                                  upon the credit of the State therefore, be it
                                                Resolved by the House of
                                                  Representatives, the Senate concurring, That
                                                  a joint committee of two Representatives and one
                                                  Senator, to be appointed by the Speaker of the
                                                  House and the President of the Senate
                                                  respectively, be instructed to correspond without
                                                  delay with the Secretary of the Treasury and the
                                                  Paymaster General of the United States to
                                                  ascertain whether the relief contemplated in His
                                                  Excellency's special message can be
                                                  attained.
                                          
                                    
                              

                              

                              The resolution was adopted, and the Speaker appointed Messrs. Hanna
                                    and Van Buskirk, on the part of the House.
                              Senate bills 15, 16, 19, 20, 22, 24, 26, 30, 32, 33, and 28 passed
                                    their first reading.
                              House bills 135 to 149 inclusive (introduced yesterday and the day
                                    before) were read the second time and appropriately referred ;
                                    except 144, which was laid on the table, informally.
                              On motion of Mr. LAKE, it was--
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That when the House
                                                  adjourn, it adjourn to meet at 10 a.m. on
                                                  Monday.
                                          
                                    
                              
                               Mr. ANDERSON introduced a joint resolution, (29) which was read
                                    the first time. It is as follows :
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Be it Resolved by the General
                                                  Assembly of the State of Indiana, That we are
                                                  firmly and indissolubly bound to the Eastern
                                                  States, and at no time and under no circumstances
                                                  will we separate from the East.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    DISCRIMINATION IN THE DRAFT.
                                    Mr. Hanna's joint resolution, (H. R. 6)--(printed on
                                          page 54 of these reports) instructing our delegation in
                                          Congress to inquire into the cause of discrimination in
                                          the matter of the draft, in favor of Massachusetts and
                                          against Indiana, was taken up.
                                    Mr. LAMB opposed it. It set out a fact that did not really
                                          exist. It appears that Massachusetts has very nearly the
                                          number of men in the service that Indiana has. In
                                          proportion to her population, she had done as well as
                                          Indiana. He moved to refer to a select committee to
                                          ascertain as to facts stated in the preamble.
                                    Mr. HANNA said his resolution was based upon statistics. He
                                          understood well the point the gentle man made.
                                          Massachusetts had a large number of seamen in service. It
                                          was sought to include them in the estimate in favor of
                                          Massachusetts. The resolution, referred to the military
                                          force alone. Besides, the vital part of the resolution was
                                          touching the draft. That had been mercilessly enforced in
                                          Indiana, while in Massachusetts it was not yet today
                                          enforced. Governor Andrew had postponed his draft four
                                          times, and now gives it up altogether. He proposed to
                                          substitute negroes for white men; to place them side by
                                          side with the soldiers of the great West. This was the way
                                          Abolition Massachusetts treated us.
                                    Mr. PUETT advocated the resolution. He took Governor
                                          Andrew's statements in this regard. Governor
                                          Andrew ought to know. The draft had been enforced in
                                          Indiana, but postponed in Massachusetts.
                                    On motion by Mr. PACKARD, the motion to refer was laid on the
                                          table--yeas 42, nays 25.
                                    The vote on its passage was yeas 42, nays 18.
                                    So the joint resolution failed for want of a constitutional
                                          majority--51 votes.
                                    A call of the House was ordered 62 members answered to their
                                          names--and, no quorum appearing, the House adjourned.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    MONDAY, February 9, 1863.
                              
                              Senate bill 103 and joint resolution 10 (introduced yesterday,)
                                    were read the second time.
                              House bills 20, (see page 46;) 54, (p. 57;) and 66, (p. 68) were
                                    read the first time
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. GRAVES. (101) for carrying out the 6th section of the
                                          12th article of the Constitution. (The bill fives the
                                          amount for conscientious exempts at $50, and two and
                                          one-half per cent. of the cash value of all property owned
                                          by said exempts.)
                                    By Mr. DOUGLASS, (105) to amend sections 12, 13, 15, 27, 32,
                                          33, 97, 107, 125, 156, and 162 of an act to provide a
                                          general system of common schools, and to repeal section
                                          137 of said act.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The following described bills were read the third time and
                                          finally passed:
                                    Mr. Hord's, (S. 76) to amend section 1 of the act to
                                          provide for laying out towns, &c.--yeas 36, nays
                                          1.
                                    Mr. Ray's, (S. 102) to authorize the Directors ot
                                          the Bank of the State to remove Branches and relocate them
                                          at other points within bank districts--yeas 29, nays
                                          7.
                                     Mr. Niblack, (H. R.140) to authorize chairmen of committees
                                          appointed by either branch of the General Assembly to
                                          administer oaths to witnesses before them--yeas 37. nays
                                          0.
                                    Mr. Hoagland's, (S. 93) to extend the time for the
                                          completion of Railroads where $2,000 per mile has been
                                          expended yeas 38, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Forrester's. (H. R. 15) for the relief of Aaron
                                          Foster--yeas 35, nays 2.
                                    House bills 44, (see page 54;) 69, (page 68;) and 95, (p.
                                          88;) wore read the first time.
                                    
                                          GERMAN IN COMMON SCHOOLS.
                                          On motion of Mr. HORD. it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Education be
                                                  instructed to inquire into the expediency of so
                                                  amending our Common School Law as to authorize
                                                  teaching of the German language in our Common
                                                  Schools--in such districts where it may be the
                                                  will of the inhabitants thereof, in addition to
                                                  the ordinary English branches of Education
                                                  required by law and to report such bill as will be
                                                  necessary to effectuate the same--if found
                                                  expedient.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. MARCH, [106] to provide for the prompt payment
                                                of the officers and soldiers in the army of the
                                                United States raised and organized in the State of
                                                Indiana, and to provide means for that pur-  pose,
                                                (appropriating $5,000,000 to make advance payments
                                                to soldiers, and authorizing a loan to be made by
                                                the State officers.)
                                          By Mr. WILLIAMS, (107) to repeal an act making an
                                                appropriation to defray the expense of preparing to
                                                respond to the call of the President of the United
                                                States for troops, approved May 6, 1861.
                                          By Mr. JOHNSTON. (108) to signify the acceptance of the
                                                State of Indiana to the conditions and provisions of
                                                an act of Congress, entitled "An act
                                                donating public lands to the several States and
                                                Territories which may provide colleges for the
                                                benefit of agriculture and the mechanic arts,
                                                approved July 2, 1862, &c."
                                                (Pledging the State to establish such agricultural
                                                college and defining the manner of converting such
                                                lands into bonds of the State to secure the
                                                pure-base of grounds and the erection of buildings
                                                for such college.)
                                           Read twice and 100 copies ordered printed for the use
                                                of the Senate.
                                          By Mr. CORBIN, (109) requiring the County Commissioners
                                                of the several counties of this State to make
                                                allowance, and issue orders therefor in certain
                                                cases therein specified.
                                          On motion by Mr. CORBIN, his bill 65 was taken from the
                                                table.
                                    
                                    
                                          REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                          Mr. COBB from the Court Committee
                                                reported against the expediency of reducing the
                                                Board of Commissioners to one member. The report was
                                                concurred in.
                                          Mr. WOLFE from the Judiciary
                                                  Committee reported back bill (79) to
                                                provide for protecting the freedom of the press with
                                                amendments.
                                          Mr. MARCH moved to strike out the section, which
                                                provides that all sufferers from mobs shall have a
                                                right of action against the town, or city or county
                                                wherein the property was destroyed. He contended
                                                that this provision was clearly unconstitutional,
                                                and was wholly unfair, and improper.
                                          On motion by Mr. WOLFE the further consideration of the
                                                subject was postponed till to-morrow at 11
                                                o'clock.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    MONDAY. February 9, 1863.
                              
                              The reading of the Clerk's Journal of Saturdays
                                    proceedings was dispensed with.
                              Reports from committees recommending that House bills 2, (see page
                                    34;) 13, (p. 43;) and 73 (p, 68;) be laid on the table, were
                                    severally concurred in.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. HIGGINS, (150) to provide for the election of officers
                                          of the Northern state Prison and their compensation.
                                    By Mr. LEMMON, of Harrison, (151) in favor of the liquidation
                                          of the debt of the Indiana University, by the Sinking Fund
                                          Commissioners.
                              
                              
                                    FAMILIES OF VOLUNTEERS.
                                    Mr. MILLER made a report from a committee recommending that
                                          the bill (H. R. 132) to enlarge the powers of county
                                          boards in reference to the purchase of arms, and the
                                          support of soldiers families be laid on the table.
                                    The question on concurrence in the report was undecided for
                                          lack of a quorum--yeas 43, nays 22.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The report was concurred in by yeas 49, nays 31.
                                    
                                          HONOR TO OUR SOLDIERS.
                                          Mr. PACKARD, from the Select Committee thereon reported
                                                in favor of his joint resolution 15 (printed on
                                                pages 77 and 78 of these Reports) with an amendment
                                                that the registry be made by the State
                                                Librarian.
                                          Mr. LAMB proposed to have the Adjutant General
                                                associated with the State Librarian.
                                          Mr. CASON offered an amendment to that effect and
                                                supported it in an argument. Certainly the Adjutant
                                                General had a more competent possession of the facts
                                                than the State Librarian.
                                          Mr. PACKARD defended his report. There was no need of
                                                the association of any other person with the
                                                Librarian. The Adjutant General certainly would
                                                afford all facilities to the officer appointed by
                                                this House. The m;in indicated had every
                                                qualification for the duty imposed, had the required
                                                leisure, and was to be the custodian of the work
                                                when completed.
                                          Mr. ROBERTS argued in favor of the report, opposing the
                                                employment of the Adjutant General on the score of
                                                economy. It was necessary to employ but one
                                                functionary. He moved to table the amendment of the
                                                gentleman from Boone and Hendricks.
                                          The motion was agreed to--yeas 46, nays 36.
                                          Mr. HIGGINS moved to concur in the report of the
                                                committee, with an amendment limiting the cost to
                                                $250.On motion by Mr. MILLER the amendment was laid
                                                on the table--yeas 42, nays 40.
                                          Mr. GRIFFITH proposed an amendment allowing the
                                                Adjutant General $100 for assistance and papers
                                                which he would furnish the State Librarian, allowing
                                                the latter $400.
                                          On motion by Mr. PACKARD the amendment was laid on the
                                                table--yeas 48, nays 35.
                                          Mr. PACKARD offered an amendment, fixing the
                                                compensation of the Librarian at $500, not more than
                                                one half to be 
                                                drawn before his labors were approved by the Board
                                                of Education.
                                          Mr. JOHNSON made an ineffectual motion--yeas 28, nays
                                                53--to lay the amendment on the table.
                                          Mr. ROBERTS demanded the previous question.
                                          The demand was sustained, and the report of the
                                                Committee was concurred in.
                                          The amendment fixing the compensation of the Librarian
                                                was adopted.
                                          Mr. LAMB offered an amendment to recommit with
                                                instructions to add resolutions pledging that the
                                                sacred cause in which our patriotic soldiers fell
                                                shall never be given up, nor traitorous feet be
                                                permitted to tread upon their graves.
                                          Mr. MILLER saying that the resolution was intended only
                                                as a rider to kill the whole proposition, moved to
                                                table it.
                                          The motion was agreed to--yeas 40, nays 39.
                                          Mr. MARSHALL offered a substitute for the joint
                                                resolutions as reported on by the Committee.
                                          Mr. PACKARD. I desire to ask if Mr. Laz. Noble himself
                                                did not prepare the substitute.
                                          Mr. MARSHALL. He did.
                                          Mr. PACKARD. Ah! I thought so.
                                          Pending which the House adjourned.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, February 10, 1863.
                              
                               Mr. DOUGLASS, by direction of the select committee to whom was
                                    referred the bill S. 48, reported as a substitute therefor,
                                    [110] a bill creating the 14th Judicial District, and to provide
                                    for the appointment and election of a Prosecuting Attorney and
                                    Judge therein, and for holding the terms of the Court therein,
                                    &c., which was read the first time.
                              
                                    ARMING OF NEGROES.
                                    Mr. COBB, from the Committee on federal
                                                Relations, reported back his joint
                                          resolution 10, relative to the enlisting and arming of
                                          negroes, with a recommendation that it pass.
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to amend so as to strike out the words
                                          " the people of Indiana have declared against any
                                          interference with slavery." He said the preamble
                                          of these resolutions contained what was not a historical
                                          fact: "that the people of Indiana had over and
                                          again decided against interfering with
                                          slavery."
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS. What was the expression on the 4th of October
                                          last?
                                    Mr. MARCH. What was decided at the October election was that
                                          the people didn't think the war was prosecuted
                                          with sufficient vigor. While the people of Indiana were
                                          against interference with slavery in time of peace, they
                                          had never said that they were not in favor of using
                                          negroes as instruments to cripple the rebellion, He
                                          recited the history of the late political canvass, and
                                          said there were many who voted the Democratic ticket who
                                          thought its success would help on the war. They thought
                                          they would try the old Democracy, that had conquered under
                                          the lead of Jackson. He did not think any large portion of
                                          the people of Indiana were in favor of a dissolution of
                                          the Union.
                                    Mr. WOLFE and Mr. COBB. " Nor do we think
                                          so."
                                    Mr. COBB asked if the gentleman was in favor of taking the
                                          slaves of loyal men from their owners, and destroying
                                          their rights of property in such slaves.
                                    Mr. MARCH disclaimed such intention, and contended that the
                                          slaves of loyal owners South were better protected under
                                          this Government than they would be under any other
                                          Government on earth.
                                    Mr. COBB. Would not the slaves of even loyal owners who might
                                          be enlisted in the 150,000 troops sought to be raised be
                                          free for all time ?
                                    Mr. MARCH admitted they would. If the South would lay down
                                          their arms, and come back, he would receive them as erring
                                          sisters, and give them all proper guarantees tor their
                                          rights in the future.
                                    Mr. COBB would not attempt to argue the general proposition
                                          with the Senator. It would be useless. He would confine
                                          himself to the point in the amendment. He denied the
                                          assertion that the people were not opposed to the
                                          interference with slavery in the prosecution of the war.
                                          The first of June convention, of which the gentleman was a
                                          member disclaimed all intention of Interfering with
                                          slavery, and men of all parties were invited to join them
                                          in that platform. The 8th of January convention was
                                          explicit on that subject. How can men now say or assume
                                          that the people of Indiana would favor such a measure as
                                          that before Congress, to arm 150,000 negroes, and make
                                          them the equals of our sons and brothers in the field. He
                                          contended that the speeches and writings of the leaders of
                                          the Republican party all tended to establish negro
                                          equality. He spoke plainly, and with great force on this
                                          branch of the subject.
                                    Mr. MARCH said that if the resolution was worded so as to
                                          declare that the people of the State were opposed to any
                                          interference with slavery in the States in time of peace,
                                          he would make no opposition to it, for he had never been
                                          in favor of any such interference. But in time of war,
                                          when other things were being trampled down, he
                                          couldn't understand why slavery should be held
                                          more sacred then all else. The resolution committed the
                                          Legislature to the doctrine that the slaves of rebels
                                          should not be interfered with. He wouldn't touch
                                          the property of loyal slaveholders, and was not for
                                          prosecuting the war simply to destroy slavery, nor did he
                                          believe that to be the policy of the Administration; but
                                          if, during the progress of the war, slav-  ery received a side blow,
                                          those rebels who were to become the sufferers should
                                          receive no sympathy from loyal men. He denied that the
                                          Republican party declared in their Convention that they
                                          were not in favor of interfering with slavery. They
                                          declared that they were in favor of the war to restore the
                                          States with all their original rights unimpaired.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. The gentleman has been striving to pick a flaw in
                                          the resolution, and with all his zeal he has only found
                                          one in the second line, that'the people of
                                          Indiana were opposed to interfering with slavery. He had
                                          no doubt that three-fourths of the people of Indiana were
                                          so opposed. The Democratic party always had been of that
                                          opinion, and a large portion of the Republican party still
                                          adhered to the declaration of Mr. Lincoln--that he had not
                                          the desire or the constitutional right to interfere with
                                          slavery. He did not believe that the mess of that party
                                          had become speedily Abolitionized. He did not believe that
                                          any considerable portion of the people of Indiana were in
                                          favor of a violation of the Constitution.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, moved to lay the amendment on the
                                          table.
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and taken
                                          resulted-- yeas 25, nays 19--as follows :
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bradley,
                                                  Brown, of Wells, Cobb, Corbin, Davis, of Cass,
                                                  Douglass, Dunning. Ferguson, Finch, Fuller, Gaff,
                                                  Gifford, Graves, Hartley, Hoagland, Hord, Jenkins,
                                                  Johnston, McClurg, Moore, Ray, Shields, Williams,
                                                  Wilson, and Wolfe-- 25.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bearss,
                                                  Beeson, Berry, Blair, Browne, of Randolph,
                                                  Campbell, Claypool, Culver, Davis, of Parke,
                                                  Dickinson, Graves, Grubb, March, Mellett, Murray,
                                                  New, Reed, and Wright--19.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    So the amendment was laid on the table.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to amend the last resolution by adding the
                                          words "and that they use their influence in favor
                                          of the passage of any and all measures looking to the
                                          vigorous prosecution of the war for the maintenance of the
                                          Union, the enforcement of the laws,and the suppression of
                                          the rebellion."
                                    Mr. RAY moved to amend the amendment by adding, "and
                                          with the distinct understanding that the war shall be
                                          prosecuted only for the purpose of crushing out rebellion,
                                          restoring the Union, maintaining the Constitution,
                                          enforcing the laws and securing American liberty ; and not
                                          for any sectional, political, or anti-slavery
                                          purpose."
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL accepted the amendment.
                                    Mr. WOLFE moved to further amend by adding, and provided that
                                          it shall be the duty of the President to immediately with
                                          draw his Emancipation Proclamation."
                                    Mr. MARCH contended that the amendment to the amendment was
                                          not germain to the question. The Joint Resolution
                                          instructs Senators to vote on a certain question, and this
                                          advises the President to do a certain act.
                                     The PRESIDENT (Mr. Johnston in the Chair) decided the
                                          amendment to the amendment in order.
                                    Mr. NEW made an ineffectual motion to lay the amendment to
                                          the amendment on the table--yeas 18, nays 24.
                                    The amendment to the amendment was then adopted by yeas 24,
                                          nays 18--as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bradley,
                                                  Brown, of Wells, Cobb, Corbin, Davis, of Cass,
                                                  Douglass, Dunning, Ferguson, Finch, Fuller, Gaff,
                                                  Gifford, Hartley, Hoagland, Hord, Jenkins,
                                                  Johnston, McClurg, Moore, Ray, Shields, Williams,
                                                  Wilson and Wolfe--24.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bearss,
                                                  Beeson, Berry, Blair, Brown, of Randolph,
                                                  Campbell, Claypool, Culver, Davis of Parke,
                                                  Dickinson, Graves, Grubb, March, Mellett, Murray,
                                                  New, Reed, and Wright--18.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. MARCH was in favor of a portion of the amendment and
                                          opposed to another portion. He deprecated the discussion
                                          of matters such as these, as such discussions embarrassed
                                          the Administration in the prosecution of the war. As well
                                          might, regiments discuss the orders of a commander.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Johnston in the chair) was in hopes that
                                          these several amendments would prove a common ground,
                                          where we could all stand. He regretted to hear the
                                          gentleman from, Delaware (Mr. March) oppose it, and for
                                          the reasons given. Who was it that raised the issues?--not
                                          the Democratic party, but the President himself, the chief
                                          of the gentleman's own party. He had made the
                                          strongest argument ever made against the foolish
                                          proclamation, and yet in a few days after, he gives notice
                                          that he would issue it, and, after a large portion of the
                                          people had expressed themselves against it, he issues his
                                          proclamation. He built the windmill the gentleman speaks
                                          of. His acts were open to criticism, and he should be
                                          compelled to withdraw his foolish proclamation, That
                                          "bull against the comet" made a unit of
                                          the people of the South, and divided the people of the
                                          North. Its effect was wicked. It crushed out every
                                          particle of Union sentiment in the South. He ably and
                                          eloquently advocated the passage of the resolution as
                                          amended.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, said that the proclamation contained
                                          nothing that could be construed as an interference with
                                          the legal existence of slavery in any of the States. It
                                          said that the slaveholder in rebellion should lose his
                                          right to hold his slave. But this would not prevent slaves
                                          being held after the rebellion in such States as
                                          recognized the institution. If the President, by an edict,
                                          had attempted to repeal existing laws on the subject, then
                                          he would have exercised an unconstitutional power. The
                                          Constitution gave the rebel the right to his life, but we
                                          had deprived him of it ; it gave him the right to
                                          property, but we had deprived him of that.  yet this did not take from
                                          any rebel the right to be protected in life and property
                                          in time of peace. He defended the policy and justice of
                                          the proclamation gs a military measure, and believed it
                                          would be found of practical utility, and ought not to be
                                          recalled.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS. Does the gentleman contend that the slave of the
                                          loyal master is not affected by the proclamation in the
                                          States covered by it?
                                    Mr BROWNE, of Randolph. It does not affect the system.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. What difference is there between striking down the
                                          tenure and striking out the property held under that
                                          tenure?
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. If you strike down the tenure, you
                                          deprive the party of all power to acquire property in the
                                          future. This was the difference.
                                    Mr. COBB asked the Senator if the proclamation did not strike
                                          the loyal slaveholder? The confiscation act and the
                                          article of war under it already had forfeited their right
                                          to property in slaves.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS. While the gentleman is answering, will he tall
                                          us how the proclamation would deprive the rebellion off
                                          support when the President admonished the slaves to remain
                                          and work for their masters? What difference to us, in the
                                          light of supplies to the rebellion, whether the slave
                                          worked for wages or for food and clothing?
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, did not profess to understand the
                                          operations of the confiscation act, but this he knew, that
                                          law was a dead letter in the revolted States, and the
                                          disloyal men could not be reached. He then took a general
                                          view of the question, and closed with an appeal to hold up
                                          the hands of the President in his efforts to crush out the
                                          rebellion.
                                     Mr. DOUGLASS moved to further amend so as to add,
                                          "and provided further that if the propositions
                                          made by the Legislatures of the different States fail to
                                          effect an honorable settlement or compromise between the
                                          Federal Government and the seceded States."
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. MELLETT spoke as one who had no reverence or love for any
                                          party in existence. He believed that with the close of the
                                          rebellion both the Democratic and Republican parties would
                                          go down. Partyism he believed had been the ruin of the
                                          country. It was proposed by the amendment adopted to favor
                                          a vigorous prosecution of the war. provided the President
                                          would withdraw his emancipation proclamation: otherwise
                                          the war ought not to be prosecuted with vigor. He had
                                          always been in favor of prosecuting the war without
                                          reference to slavery, one way or the other, and not with a
                                          view to either interfere with or protect that institution.
                                          He had not been of those who had insisted that the army
                                          ought not to proceed an inch until a proclamation was
                                          issued, nor of those who were always clamoring against the
                                          war because negroes were allowed to enter the camps. He
                                          was not for prosecuting the war in such a way as to aid
                                          any party, but for the sole purpose of putting down the
                                          rebellion, and securing an honorable peace. He might
                                          consent to join in a request to the President to withdraw
                                          his proclamation, but if he should fail to regard such a
                                          request, he would not declare that the war should be no
                                          longer prosecuted with vigor. It had been said that the
                                          war could not be prosecuted with a view to its successful
                                          close as long as the proclamation was before the people,
                                          but no good reason had been offered to sustain this
                                          proposition. The war ought to be prosecuted, or it ought
                                          not; and if it ought to be prosecuted, it was worth
                                          sustaining by all means, without any conditions whatever.
                                          He and others knew that there were men in both parties who
                                          had injured the Government by making different conditions
                                          for their support of it. There were, also, traitors in the
                                          land, and had been since the war ; and he regarded, all
                                          who threw obstructions in the way of the prosecution of
                                          the war, by different modes of embarrassing the
                                          Government, as traitors. If the views of extremists were
                                          to be listened to and adopted, never-ending difficulty
                                          would be the result, and the Government brought to utter
                                          ruin. He saw no hope of peace and wanted no peace until we
                                          could conquer the rebellion.
                                    Mr. RAY had sufficiently shown his disposition to lay aside
                                          party for country.-- Two years ago he had advocated
                                          measures, as he thought, vital to the interest of his
                                          country, and then he was met with the same withering
                                          retort that the gentleman makes now--that those who do not
                                          stand shoulder to shoulder with him are disloyal. This was
                                          the taunt with which true-hearted men were met. Men were
                                          not suffered to differ on measures of policy with the
                                          Administration. He had no speech on record that he would
                                          wish to take back. If the proclamation was an act of the
                                          President--a civil act--it was a bold and daring
                                          usurpation. If as a military measure, as the act of the
                                          Commander-in-Chief, the case was different; but even so it
                                          was nugatory, as gentlemen admitted. He would go further,
                                          and say that it was disastrous. It united the South as one
                                          man, and brought a million of men to the Rebel standard,
                                          and it divided the North, and would continue to divide it.
                                          The belief existed that the war was diverted from, its
                                          avowed purpose at the start,and this sentiment was wide
                                          spread and deep rooted. It was not an effective war
                                          measure. It united the South. They would dispute every
                                          inch of ground and burn every blade of grass behind them.
                                          Would it nerve any 
                                          Union soldier's arm ? Would it cheer him on his
                                          bed of death ? It would not. He did not defend the Rebels.
                                          If he had his way, he would wipe rebellion out, and
                                          slavery with it, if need be. He did not sympathize with
                                          slavery, but we have a country North to care for.
                                          Gentlemen said the slaves would not come North.-- Then
                                          what good does the proclamation do ? As a measure of
                                          philanthropy what is the effect ? Are we to bring a
                                          vagabond population here to curse our own country, and not
                                          benefit the degraded race ? The gentleman from Henry (Mr.
                                          Mellett) might not like the resolution now, but he had to
                                          thank members from his own side for the condition it was
                                          now in. The amendment now under discussion was called
                                          forth by amendments tacked on by members from his side of
                                          the chamber. If the emancipation proclamation is to have
                                          any effect as a military measure, it is to stir up servile
                                          insurrection, and produce a night of horrors that will
                                          shock the Christian world, but he did not think it would
                                          have any such effect. He thought it was nugatory as a
                                          military measure, and mischievous otherwise.
                                    He read from the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS as to his
                                          position on the war at that time, and the views expressed
                                          by other Senators at the same time. He then deprecated a
                                          war for slavery, while he supported with all his ability
                                          the supply of means to enforce the laws ana restore the
                                          integrity of the Government.
                                    Mr. MARCH said that the (Senator had answered his own speech
                                          by admitting that the proclamation would prove to be
                                          ineffective, and would not produce insurrections. If the
                                          statements of those who attacked the proclamation were
                                          correct they were fighting a man of straw, for they had
                                          declared that it was a nullity, and could have no force or
                                          effect. They admitted that a military commander could
                                          accomplish ail that it was claimed the proclamation could
                                          effect. The latter was preferable because it was more
                                          public, and it was nothing but a military order from the
                                          Commander-in-Chief of the Army. If it was proper to
                                          condemn one military order, it would be equally proper to
                                          condemn others, and, believing that such a course would
                                          not aid in putting down the rebellion, he was opposed to
                                          it. It only tended to divide and distract the people and
                                          weaken the national cause. He believed that the impression
                                          that the proclamation had been detrimental to the army
                                          existed only in the imaginations of Senators and the
                                          wishes of Northern traitors. Senators reckoned without
                                          their host if they calculated that the late elections had
                                          decided that the people meant to give up the war until it
                                          should result in suppressing the rebellion. The Southern
                                          slaveholders had divided the Democratic party because they
                                          could not control it ; they had divided the country
                                          because they could not control it, and they were now
                                          fighting the Government because they could not control it.
                                          And if these were to be the only sufferers from the war,
                                          why should loyal men complain ?
                                    Mr. COBB. If the proclamation was ineffective, as gentlemen
                                          contended, it should be withdrawn. Why keep an ineffective
                                          law on the statute book ? But he differed with gentlemen
                                          in their views of its being inoperative. He believed that
                                          the President intended to enforce the proclamation
                                          wherever he could do it. Suppose it is made effective at
                                          the point of the bayonet, and three millions of a degraded
                                          race will be turned loose upon the now happy people of the
                                          North. The public mind is being educated to the point of
                                          receiving this vagabond population. Already the intimation
                                          was given that the 13th article of our constitution was in
                                          conflict with the Constitution of the United States. He
                                          contended forcibly that, the proclamation was leveled at
                                          the loyal men of the South, The confiscation bill and the
                                          articles of war had already confiscated the slaves of
                                          rebels, and why add the proclamation to embitter the
                                          South. War, it was said, was waged for peace, but the
                                          proclamation meant war, and nothing but, war. Let every
                                          Rebel lay down his arms to-day, and while this
                                          proclamation was in force, peace could not spread its
                                          sunshine over the land. He had no sympathy with the
                                          rebellion--not a particle--but he owed a duty to himself
                                          and his posterity. Senators would not allow us to judge of
                                          what is a military necessity, but we must blindly follow
                                          whatever they choose to proclaim as a
                                          "necessity." The Senator from Henry (Mr.
                                          Mellett), and the Senator from Delaware (Mr. March) would
                                          compel us to submit to anything, and everything, the
                                          President might choose to order, even to the enslaving of
                                          ourselves. He took a financial view of the question. If
                                          the Government should be restored, as he trusted to God it
                                          would be, with all the rights and privileges of the States
                                          unimpaired, he would be in favor of the South paying her
                                          share of the war debt. He would not rob them of their
                                          negroes, but when the tax-gather went round he would tax
                                          them on their value for the debt now creating. He replied
                                          to the arguments of the Senator from Randolph (Mr. Browne)
                                          that the proclamation did not destroy the system of
                                          slavery, or interfere with its tenure. It was like taking
                                          a man's life, and admitting that he still had a
                                          legal tenure to live. What good would that be to him ? But
                                          to return to the main question. The tendency of arming the
                                          negroes was to demoralize the army. It was to equalize the
                                          races. If a negro regiment should be effective in the
                                          field, it would be quoted on. all occasions, and the cry
                                          would be raised that so gallant a race should not be de-
                                                 prived of the
                                          rights of franchise, and all other-rights possessed by
                                          white men, It was an admission, also, that we were
                                          incapable of success without the aid of the blacks, and on
                                          that score he felt it his duty to protest against the
                                          measure.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL had listened for some denunciation of the
                                          rebellion, but he had listened in vain.
                                    Mr. RAY. Did the gentleman pay attention to the remarks of
                                          the Senator from Shelby ? (Mr. Ray.)
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL did, and heard something said, but the general
                                          tenor was of complaint against the Administration. The cry
                                          had been "green backs," millions of
                                          debt," "negro equality,"
                                          "military arrests, "
                                          proclamations," and such expressions. We had been
                                          told that not another man nor another dollar should be
                                          given for this war. If the Democratic party would come
                                          forward and unite for a vigorous prosecution of the war,
                                          and agree to favor the further increase of white soldiers,
                                          there would be no use for negro soldiers. But if they
                                          failed to do this, he was for arming the negroes, and for
                                          one he would rather fight by the side of a negro soldier
                                          who was loyal, than by the side of the whitest Democratic
                                          traitor in the country.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, February 10, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. MILROY, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                    introduced a bill, [152] to signify the assent of Indiana to the
                                    act of Congress making donations for Agricultural Colleges,
                                    which was read the first time.
                              
                                    HONOR TO OUR SOLDIERS.
                                    The matter pending on adjournment yesterday (the joint
                                          resolutions H. R. 15, printed on pages 77 and 78 of these
                                          Reports) was taken up.
                                    Mr. HIGGINS offered an amendment making the sum of $500 the
                                          full compensation for all work the Librarian may do in
                                          this regard until January 1, 1865.
                                    Mr. PACKARD. It is already contemplated by the Joint
                                          Resolution that the Librarian shall perform his duty as
                                          long as the war lasts. The present Librarian would
                                          'enter upon the work in the spirit of patriotism.
                                          He cared nothing about compensation beyond what was
                                          necessary.
                                    The amendment was adopted.
                                    On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON the resolution was farther
                                          amended by inserting after the word "
                                          book" these words : "in such form as
                                          will be suitable for minting."
                              
                              
                                    THE "STOVER FRAUD."
                                    Mr. ROBERTS offered a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                                Committee on Ways and Means be
                                          instructed to inquire into the facts and circumstances
                                          connected with the late fraudulent issue of Indiana State
                                          stocks, commonly known as "the Stover
                                          fraud;" whether there is any probability that the
                                          State will sustain any loss thereby, and whether any
                                          legislation is necessary to protect the interests and
                                          credit of the State on account thereof, and to report by
                                          bill, or otherwise.
                              
                              
                                    THE COMMITTEE OF THIRTEEN.
                                    Mr. CASON offered the following:

                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, There has been a
                                                  mutual expression of a want of confidence in each
                                                  other by both parties in this branch of the
                                                  General Assembly, as well as an excited state of
                                                  public feeling generally, in relation to the
                                                  prosecution of the war, and other measures, and
                                                  that such want of confidence has caused much ill
                                                  feeling on the part of the members of this body,
                                                  as well as useless criminations and
                                                  re-criminations. Therefore, to restore confidence
                                                  in the good intentions, honesty and patriotism of
                                                  all the members of this House, and to quiet the
                                                  public feeling; be it
                                                  Resolved, That a committee of
                                                  thirteen be appointed, with instructions to use
                                                  all possible efforts, consistent with their duties
                                                  as legislators and patriots to come to some
                                                  satisfactory understanding in relation to the
                                                  action of this House upon the following subjects,
                                                  and that we hereby pledge ourselves, at the
                                                  sacrifice of mere party or personal feelings, to
                                                  adopt the views and follow the advice of the
                                                  committee, if the same should be their unanimous
                                                  report. The committee are instructed to report
                                                  their views and conclusions upon the following
                                                  questions, as well as any others they may deem
                                                  proper or desirable:
                                                  1st. All matters in relation to the powers and
                                                  duties of the Governor;
                                                  2d. All questions in relation to the
                                                  prosecuting of this war, and the status of Indiana
                                                  connected therewith.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. CASON proposed it as a peace measure.
                                    Mr. LASSELLE would vote for the resolution, provided the
                                          clause binding this House by the decision of the committee
                                          were stricken out. He would surrender his conscience to no
                                          set of men, however sagacious and patriotic.
                                    Mr. MILROY was opposed to the whole thing. It came from the
                                          wrong quarter. It reminded him of the fable of the rooster
                                          and the horses. The rooster said "Gentlemen,
                                          don't let us tread on each other's
                                          toes." If the minority don't want the
                                          majority to tread on their toes, let them get out on clear
                                          ground--let them get out of the way.
                                    Mr. KENDRICK favored taking counsel on these disputed
                                          questions, and thought that the committee would save
                                          heated discussions in the House.
                                    Mr. ROBERTS made an ineffectual motion to table the
                                          resolution--yeas 24, nays 65.
                                    Mr. PRIEST would not be bound by the action of the
                                          committee.
                                    Mr. PACKARD opposed the adoption of the resolution. It was a
                                          visionary scheme. We had a committee-- the
                                                Committee on Federal
                                          Relations--in all respects, except in point of
                                          number, equivalent to the one proposed. That committee had
                                          already canvassed the important subjects committed to
                                          them, and it was found utterly impossible for them to
                                          agree. How was it 
                                          possible, then, that thirteen men could agree, when seven
                                          could not ? Besides, he would not yield his conscience and
                                          his action to the dictum of any set of men. All of us who
                                          were honest in asserting their principles would stand by
                                          them. We must differ with one another, if we were honest
                                          and conscientious.
                                    Mr. ROBERTS said that all such humbug resolutions were
                                          introduced by the minority to consume time and prevent
                                          necessary legislation--in order that the majority might bo
                                          held responsible before the people for all failures. And
                                          the people would hold, notwithstanding the machinations of
                                          the minority, the majority so responsible.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB was disposed to grant the minority all they asked
                                          in reason. He was disposed to treat them with more
                                          courtesy than they had treated us heretofore. He was
                                          willing to try the experiment for conciliation and
                                          harmony.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH offered an amendment striking out the pledge to
                                          abide by the report of the Committee, and inserting
                                          "will give the report a respectful
                                          consideration."
                                    Mr. VAN BUSKIRK followed. He argued in favor of the
                                          resolution. The fact that it was presented by "
                                          the bitterest member on this floor in the
                                          minority," as had been charged, ought to commend
                                          it to the majority.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK was inclined to favor the proposition, because an
                                          equal number of both parties would be brought face to
                                          face, and it looked like an honest effort toward
                                          conciliation toward doing something. Everything which is
                                          calculated to bring members of both parties together would
                                          tend to allay the excitement of the country. He had no
                                          fear of a discussion in committee of the principles and
                                          measures of the majority. He had every disposition to
                                          favor all steps toward pacification.
                                    Mr. WOOLLEN offered an amendment directing the committee to
                                          report by 2 p. m. on Monday next.
                                    Mr CASON spoke in support of his resolution. He had no
                                          objections to the amendments offered, but thought he
                                          contemplated all they purposed He had offered the
                                          resolution in good faith. He had offered it to remove
                                          party and personal questions from this House for the time
                                          being, in order that needful legislation be done--in order
                                          that agitation might be calmed down, and that we might go
                                          to work. The minority were just as responsible before the
                                          people as the majority.-- He was ready to meet every man
                                          extending the hand of conciliation; but if there was to be
                                          no concessions and compromise--if it was determined to
                                          strike down him and his, his motto was--
                                    "Lay on Macduff, And damned be he who first
                                          cries, hold, enough!"
                                    Mr. ANDERSON, referring to Mr. Cason, and replying to Mr.
                                          Packard, said that-- "While the lamp hold out to burn, The
                                                vilest sinner may return."
                                          There was more rejoicing in Heaven over the return of
                                          one sinner than ninety-nine righteous. Mr. Cason had been
                                          stigmatized as the chief of sinners. By his resolution he
                                          had brought forth fruits meet for repentance. He, in the
                                          opposition--in the minority-had proposed a measure looking
                                          to compromise, to conciliation to peace, and his
                                          proposition ought to be adopted.
                                    Mr. HUMPHREYS said he would vote against the resolution,
                                          because it was very well understood by the majority what
                                          they would do, and the time when it would be done. This
                                          committee would tend to delay action. Me opposed the
                                          resolution. If it was adopted, he was sure we would
                                          adjourn without doing anything at all.
                                    Mr. BURTON conceived that the introduction of the resolution
                                          was the height of tomfoolery. It was child's play
                                          for this Legislature to be discussing propositions like
                                          this. The resolution was for no other purpose than to
                                          consume the time and money of the people of Indiana. The
                                          views of both parties were well known. Gentlemen were wide
                                          as the poles apart. They never could agree on any of the
                                          important questions. He himself (and his constituents
                                          would kick him out of his county if he were not) was
                                          opposed to anything like compromise or conciliation with
                                          Abolitionists. Any proceeding under the resolution would
                                          amount to nothing. It was all humbug.
                                    Mr. SHAFFER was willing to meet the minority half way. He
                                          should vote for the resolution and now demanded the
                                          previous question.
                                    The demand was seconded by the House.
                                    The two amendments were adopted.
                                    The resolution as amended was also adopted, by yeas 65. nays
                                          24.
                                    The SPEAKER subsequently announced the committee, viz:
                                          Messrs. Cason, Niblack, Howk, Abbett, Roberts, Newman,
                                          Tarkington, Puett, Shaffer, Bird, O'Brien, of
                                          Hamilton, Hartley, and Van Buskirk.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the
                                          Governor with regard to drafted men, in reply to a
                                          resolution of the House. An accompanying report from the
                                          Adjutant General states that four companies of drafted men
                                          were organized as volunteers, and wear, into old
                                          regiments. Other men, amounting to about 290, were also in
                                          the service, as drafted.
                                    
                                          STATE REVENUE.
                                          The revenue bill, [H. R. 139] was taken up in
                                                  Committee of the Whole, (Mr.
                                                Holcomb in the Chair).

                                          

                                          Mr. NIBLACK explained that the revenue from the
                                                increased levy would not be more than sufficient to
                                                meet the demands upon the State Treasury for the
                                                ensuing year ; $850.000 was required for the years
                                                1863 and 1864.
                                          On motion of Mr. BRANHAM the committee arose and
                                                reported back the bill to the House, recommending
                                                its passage.
                                          The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                                engrossed.
                                    
                                    
                                          RESOLUTIONS OP INQUIRY.
                                          Were offered, read and severally adopted, to-wit:
                                          By Mr. MILLER, to appoint a committee of three to
                                                investigate the cost of printing a pamphlet edition
                                                of the law in reference to decedents'
                                                estates.
                                          By Mr. VAN BUSKIRK, as to legislation in reference to
                                                bringing suits against foreign insurance
                                                companies.
                                          By Mr. LASSELLE,as to the propriety of making United
                                                States Treasury notes receivable for taxes.
                                          By Mr HOLCOMB, in reference to a reduction of the
                                                salaries of canal trustees.
                                          By Mr. RIPPEY, in favor of an enactment permitting
                                                Recorders to require their fees in advance.
                                          By Mr. PACKARD, to permit ex-Recorders to issue
                                                fee-bills for official duties and collect them.
                                          By Mr. GREGORY, in favor of requiring railroads to
                                                carry the bodies of deceased soldiers en route to
                                                their homes free of charge.
                                    
                                    
                                          ARBITRARY ARRESTS.
                                          Mr. WOOLLEN introduced a joint resolution, [30]
                                                protesting against the passage of any bill by
                                                Congress indemnifying the President, or those acting
                                                under him, from liability to answer for arbitrary
                                                arrests, and instructing Senators and requesting
                                                Representatives to oppose the passage of each bill,
                                                which was read the first time.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed to the second
                                                reading:
                                          By Mr. GREGORY, [153] amending section 3 of the law to
                                                regulate the sale of liquors.
                                          By Mr. DAVIS, [154] to provide for opening ditches and
                                                water courses.
                                          By Mr. HANNA, [155] to provide for an Auditing
                                                  Committee of the claims of the Indiana
                                                Legion, and of the military expenses on the border.
                                                (The bill provides a committee of five members of
                                                the Legislature to meet at Indianapolis on the 18th
                                                of March, and sit for six weeks, auditing such
                                                claims.)
                                          By Mr. HETFIELD. [156] a Liquor License law.
                                          By Mr. HETFIELD, [157] an additional act to regulate
                                                tolls on the Wabash bridge at Covington.
                                          By Mr. HETFIELD, [158] to regulate the fare and toll of
                                                passengers on railroads of this State--fixing the
                                                rate at 3c. per mile.
                                          By Mr. MORGAN, [159] to protect sheep and lax
                                                dogs--taxing the owners of dogs for the purpose of
                                                paying for sheep destroyed.
                                          By Mr WOODRUFF, [160] to amend section 47 of the road
                                                act.
                                          By Mr. SPENCER, [Kill to amend the 22d section of the
                                                trespass act.
                                          By Mr. JOHNSON, [162] relative to salaries of Sinking
                                                Fund officers.
                                          By Mr. GIVEN. [163] to authorize county Commissioners
                                                to vacate city or town incorporations in certain
                                                cases.
                                          By Mr. DONALDSON. [KM] to amend the 8th section of the
                                                Plank Road Act.
                                          By Mr. MILROY. [165] to amend section 1 of the
                                                Exemption Act.
                                          By Mr. WATERMAN, [166] supplemental to the Election
                                                Act--of Iowa officers.
                                          By Mr. LEEDS. [167] to entitle special surgeons, who
                                                have proceeded to any battle field, 10 pay as
                                                Assistant Surgeons.
                                           By Mr. BURTON, [168] to repeal the dog law.
                                          By Mr. MUTZ, [169] to prohibit trespass on lands for
                                                the purpose of hunting.
                                          By Mr. HOWK. [170] to amend the 4th section of the
                                                Common Pleas Act, relative to holding courts in
                                                Clark, Scott, Washington, Harrison and Floyd
                                                counties.
                                          By Mr. O'BRIEN, of Hamilton. [171] to amend
                                                section 2 of the county officers' act.
                                          By Mr. FERRIS, [172] to regulate railroad passenger and
                                                freight tariffs.
                                          By Mr. NIBLACK, [173] to amend the Practice Act.
                                           By Mr. HUMPHREYS, [174] to amend section 1 of the act
                                                regulating Justices of the Peace.
                                          By Mr. HOWARD, [175] to amend the Common School
                                                Act.
                                          By Mr. HOSTETTER, [176] to authorize constables to
                                                administer all oaths necessary in the discharge of
                                                their duties.
                                          By Mr. PACKARD, [177] regulating sales of real
                                                estate.
                                          By Mr. HARNEY, [178] to repeal aa act amending the
                                                felony act.
                                          By Mr. KEMP, of Dubois, [179] to amend an act
                                                regulating fees and salaries.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 11, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. WILSON, from the Banking Committee, reported
                                    upon the memorial of D. A. Martin, that E. G. Burkham is not
                                    legally entitled to hold a Directorship in the Branch of the
                                    State Bank at Lawrenceburg, and that said Bank had been grossly
                                    mismanaged, and the assets of the Bank diverted to the injury of
                                    the people of that Bank District, and recommended the adoption
                                    of a joint resolution (11) appointing Edmund Clark agent to
                                    examine into the condition of the said Branch.

                              
                              The joint resolution was read the first time.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Recommending that Senate bills 41 (see page 80;) and 75
                                          (limiting the number of Justices in townships of 200
                                          voters and under to one Justice, be laid on the table,
                                          were concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    ARMING OF NEGROES.
                                    The Senate joint resolution [10] protesting against the
                                          enlisting and arming of negroes, coming up in order--
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells. The proposition was advanced yesterday
                                          by those opposing the resolution, that those who differed
                                          with the Administration in power were disloyal men. This
                                          cry had become stale, and passed now as the idle wind.--
                                          Gentlemen must remember that the October elections, by the
                                          construction of loyalty put by them upon the term,
                                          proclaimed the great mass of the people of the North
                                          traitors' Secretary Seward, seeing the effect
                                          upon foreign nations of this cry, notified them that by
                                          our theory of government, men might differ with the
                                          Administration, and even oppose it and yet be loyal to the
                                          Government. Gentlemen acting all their lives with the
                                          opposition, opposing always the policy of the Democratic
                                          party, rise here, and while sticking close to the views of
                                          their old party friends, cry "no party."
                                          The proclamation struck at non-combatants. It struck down
                                          the rights of loyal men. It was said that it was harmless,
                                          If it was so, why, in the alarming state of the country,
                                          waste time on such child's play? But it is termed
                                          a military necessity--that tyrant's plea, that
                                          covers up a multitude of sins. It was contended that the
                                          bill would have no bad effect on the soldier. He read a
                                          letter received this morning from a soldier at Nashville
                                          Tennessee, begging him to use what influence he had to
                                          direct the war within a constitutional channel, and
                                          stating that wide disaffection existed in the army. He
                                          also read an article from the Independent, in which
                                          Beecher called upon "God and the negro"
                                          to save the Republic. What blasphemy! When it came to
                                          that, when this Republic could only be saved by the arm of
                                          the negro, he would leave his citizenship as soon as he
                                          could. He made a forcible and able argument against the
                                          employment of the negro as a soldier, as tending to weaken
                                          instead of strengthen, the North.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD. On one and the same subject there was a great
                                          diversity of opinion. If it was true that the proclamation
                                          set free three or four millions of negroes, and they were
                                          to come amongst us, he would oppose it with all his zeal
                                          and energies. He had long been a slaveholder, and knew the
                                          race. Their immediate liberation would result in the
                                          destruction of the white race and of the black race. He
                                          then presented his view of the proclamation, that it did
                                          not effect the system of slavery, and was merely a
                                          military measure, operative only where our armies went.
                                          The operation was good and bad. The bad effect was already
                                          felt--it united the people of the seceded States. The good
                                          effect was to come. He had opposed it at first; but we had
                                          experienced the bad effect and it would be unwise to
                                          recall it now before the good effect has been experienced.
                                          He contended that the proclamation would liberate but few
                                          slaves. He would not approve of the arming of slaves,
                                          unless as a measure of necessity. He would make it a last
                                          resort. The example had been set by the South in their
                                          arming of the savages. We should calculate the effect on
                                          our own army, and be careful not to trample upon the
                                          feelings of our soldiers. If men were in earnest they
                                          would not hesitate about the company they would have in
                                          subduing the enemy. He instanced the Sepoys of India, who
                                          had been used to subjugate that country, although the
                                          English prejudice against them wan quite as strong as that
                                          of our people against the negro. Men who dream of nothing
                                          but compromises could readily pick flaws. While he
                                          preferred that white men should do our fighting, he was
                                          opposed to giving an expression here that no other class
                                          should be used to fight rebels.
                                     Mr. WOLFE. The question under consideration was the
                                          proclamation of the President, issued on the first of
                                          January. It called upon the President to withdraw it, and,
                                          when so withdrawn, instructed our Senators in Congress to
                                          vote men and money to subdue the rebellion. All the
                                          measures of the war were fairly before the Senate for
                                          discussion Whatever he might say, he did not expect to
                                          convince the minority here. His words would fall on the
                                          dull ear of party. Nothing short of the thunder bolts from
                                          heaven would move these gentlemen. The warning voice of
                                          conservatism had been sounded in the ears of these
                                          gentlemen before the war commenced and since. He was in
                                          favor of a vigorous prosecution of the war for the
                                          purposes announced at the commencement of it, or he was
                                          for a speedy peace. While the authorities at Washington
                                          conducted the war for its legitimate object it was the
                                          duty of all citizens to yield it support.-- He contended,
                                          however, that the Union could not be restored by the
                                          policy the powers at Washington were now pursuing.
                                          Believing so, he must oppose it. He opposed it because he
                                          loved the Union. Let any gentleman show how the Union
                                          could be restored, and he would give his undivided and
                                          hearty support to all measures to that end, and not be
                                          very particular whether they were strictly legal or not.--
                                          He was satisfied in his own mind that the Administration
                                          policy was a disunion pol-  icy. and he believed he
                                          could show it.-- When this war broke out there was a
                                          strong union sentiment at the South. He recited facts and
                                          incidents. The Crittenden compromise would have
                                          strengthened and increased this sentiment. If this war had
                                          been prose sated in a proper manner and in a proper spirit
                                          it could have been brought to a successful issue in nine
                                          months. But from the time this Congress commenced the
                                          agitation of the negro question, disunion grew apace in
                                          the South, and it grew until they were able to meet and
                                          often overwhelm our forces.-- He believed firmly that a
                                          united people could never be conquered. History gave no
                                          example. History does give examples of an invading army
                                          being the nucleus around which the people could rally, but
                                          never that a united people were brought under the yoke of
                                          an invaded.-- He knew that Poland was held by a foreign
                                          power. But is it conquered? It has cost Russia more than
                                          all the lands and chattles are worth, and yet the people
                                          were not subdued and never would be. He then reviewed the
                                          progress of the war and the immense resources used. We
                                          were in a worse condition to-day than we were a year ago.
                                          If the Union could be restored by any means he would
                                          support those means. If knocking the totters from every
                                          slave would restore the Government, he would liberate
                                          every negro. He had no sympathy with the Rebels. He saw
                                          the first inception of this rebellion at Charleston and at
                                          Baltimore, and he denounced the base treachery of those
                                          men to the true and loyal men of the North. He had no
                                          sympathy with them. He was not their guardian or their
                                          advocate. They inaugurated this civil war. They were
                                          doubtless goaded to it by the intermeddling of the
                                          abolitionists of the North, but they deserted their
                                          friends in the North--basely deserted them, and he had no
                                          sympathy with them. But because these traitors were base,
                                          because they betrayed their friends and their country, he
                                          did not think he was called upon to aid in the ruin by
                                          advocating measures that he was satisfied would only
                                          hasten the ruin. He would not cut off his nose to hurt
                                          another man. He believed the policy of Mr. Lincoln was
                                          doing more to strengthen the rebellion and ruin the
                                          country than all the acts of Jeff. Davis and his traitor
                                          crew. The traitors would have been powerless had they not
                                          been aided by the mad and unwise conduct of the radicals
                                          at the North, and their policy was that of the
                                          Administration. There was another question, a financial
                                          question, that must be touched. It must be met.-- Fine
                                          spun theories could not evade them. There was a question
                                          of greenbacks.--Gentlemen might talk of the last drop of
                                          Wood and the last Collar, but talk would not do. We were
                                          heaping up a debt without limit.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL asked if the American people could not bear as
                                          large a debt as France, and it the debt would be any
                                          larger than that of France if the war continued until July
                                          1864?
                                    Mr. WOLFE did not know bow much a people could endure if
                                          their hearts were in a cause. This, he feared, was the
                                          condition of the southern people, and they would endure
                                          all and bear all. They had demonstrated, also, that they
                                          were as brave in the battlefield as their kindred blood of
                                          the North. The people of the North might endure as much as
                                          the surfs of Russia, but with equal endurance and equal
                                          valor in the South, a great united people could not be
                                          conquered. He did not, he could not, believe that the
                                          dominant, policy could ever preserve the country, and
                                          believing so, he would vote for the resolution, and be
                                          accountable to his constituents and to posterity. The
                                          Senator from Henry (Mr. Mellett) said if he-gave that vote
                                          he would be aiding the Southern Confederacy. He believed
                                          before God, that if the Senator from Henry gave the vote
                                          he threatened to give, that he would be giving aid to
                                          Jeff. Davis. Let the gentleman account for his vote to his
                                          constituents, and let him answer to posterity. He saw hope
                                          if the people in both sections could be heard. The like
                                          causes were working like effects in both sections. Jeff.
                                          Davis and the dominant men South would oppose an
                                          armistice, and the speculators and all who were making
                                          money out of the war here would oppose it, The war must be
                                          closed sometime by a cessation of hostilities. He never
                                          would consent to any peace but one on the basis of the
                                          restoration of the Union, He would accept that and nothing
                                          less. Try this plan of compromise, and if it fails you
                                          will have no occasion to seek to raise black soldiers, for
                                          a power will spring up in the North that is little dreamed
                                          of. He read from the New York Tribune to show the radical
                                          programme to be disunion--no union with slaveholders. He
                                          would be found fighting disunion under this guise,
                                          "The best available peace" in the
                                          extract meant let the South go. He alluded to the charge
                                          against the Democratic party of a desire to take Indiana
                                          out of the Union, and the formation of a Northwestern
                                          Confederacy, and denounced it as a base slander, and he
                                          believed the cry was raised by the opposition to cover up
                                          schemes of oppression meditated by them.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. In the form in which these resolutions are drawn
                                          he could not vote for them. If they were in another form
                                          he might vote for them. As they stand, they are a demand
                                          upon the President to withdraw his proclamation. He did
                                          not think it the duty of the Senate to criticise the acts
                                          of the Commander-in- 
                                          Chief of the army at this critical time: He admitted,
                                          however, the right of the people to differ with the
                                          Administration on matters of policy. He would ask what
                                          good can grow out of the demand for the repeal of the law
                                          for the employment of negroes as soldiers? He believed the
                                          measure was a pure and patriotic one--not to elevate the
                                          negro but to put down the rebellion. The negroes were to
                                          be organized to garrison Southern forts where white men
                                          would die from the effects of the climate. This was all
                                          the advocates of the bill intended by it. They did not
                                          intend to mix white regiments and black regiments. Could
                                          any one object to that? He opposed the joint resolution
                                          also because it was calculated to add to the excitement
                                          already existing in the State. There was a wide spread
                                          feeling that a majority in this Legislature intended to
                                          take the State out of the Union, and there was an
                                          organization or organizations forming all over the State
                                          to resist the scheme.
                                    Mr. RAY. Who is responsible for these reports?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I don't know. I only know that the
                                          belief exists, and the loyal people are forming
                                          associations to avert it.
                                     Mr. COBB Does the gentleman know of the existence of these
                                          associations?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I do. One exists in my own township.
                                    Mr. COBB Is not that association for freeing the slaves?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I do not belong to it, and cannot say, but I am
                                          told it is to resist all attempts to take the State out of
                                          the Union.
                                    Mr. CORBIN. Is that association arming? and if so, who
                                          furnishes the arms?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. The farmers are all armed. The excitement is
                                          growing, and it has already reached the army.
                                    Mr. COBB. Do not these stories reach the army through lying
                                          journals circulated there?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I suppose so.
                                    Mr. COBB. Then why dont you denounce such journals.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I do. I never believed, and do not now believe,
                                          that any such scheme exists, it is for this reason I
                                          deprecate all agitation. It was also believed that a
                                          secret organization existed in the Democratic party to
                                          resist the draft, and to resist the arrest of deserters,
                                          and for other purposes of resistance to the legal
                                          authority of the Government. In regard to the
                                          proclamation, he was not one of these who denounced all
                                          men as traitors him who differed with him. He did not
                                          believe they were, and these denunciations mortified him.
                                          Men could belong to their own political organizations and
                                          be true to the country. He was in favor of the proposition
                                          before Congress, because he never wanted to see another
                                          draft made in Indiana. He did not want to see citizens of
                                          Indiana forced into the army at the point of the bayonet.
                                          Elkhart county had only one hundred men drafted, and he
                                          never witnessed such a scene of distress as when these men
                                          were marched to the county seat. He did not believe
                                          another draft could be made here without civil war.
                                          Indiana had poured out her blood like water already. He
                                          was then in favor of raising negro regiments to garrison
                                          the forts, and thus save our own people.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells. Does not the gentleman think then that
                                          the salvation of the republic depends upon the rigger?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. No sir. Gov. Andrew has been persistent in his
                                          scheme. The negro should fight as well as the white min.
                                          But as to the proclamation he did not believe it would
                                          free a single slave. He believed it was unfortunate, and
                                          it was his opinion that it never should have been made.
                                          Yet he believed if it had any effect at all it would be to
                                          weaken the rebels. He believed the proclamation was made
                                          not to effect the slaves but to operate on foreign
                                          nations, to secure their sympathy in our behalf. And now
                                          we are about to ask the President to take it back.
                                    Mr. DOUGLASS. Suppose he takes it back, won't he
                                          stand just where he did before he issued it?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. He would not. He followed out the border State or
                                          rose water policy for a long time until a change was
                                          demanded by tue country. The change was made, and the
                                          proclamation was the blow direct at the vitals of the
                                          rebellion. He was not answerable for the individual
                                          opinions of members of the Republican party. He differed
                                          with the Abolition fanatics. Indeed he was sorely grieved
                                          at many of the acts of the Administration, and if he could
                                          recall the vote he gave to Abraham Lincoln, he would give
                                          it with all his heart to Stephen A. Douglas.
                                    Mr. COBB read a portion of Mr. Douglas' last speech
                                          at Chicago, in which he deprecated any war but a war
                                          carried on as civilized and Christian nation conduct a
                                          war, and asked if the gentleman endorsed that speech?
                                    Mr. MURRAY did endorse it heartily. If the Senator from
                                          Harrison will offer a proposition here devising some means
                                          to propose terms of peace to the rebels without
                                          withdrawing our armies, without inferring with impeding
                                          battles, and without weakening our army or resources, he
                                          would vote for it. He asked Messrs. Wolfe and Dunning if
                                          they would accept an armistice on the terms proposed by
                                          Jeff. Da vis, "that the Southern Confederacy must
                                          first be recognised before even an armistice should be
                                          granted."
                                    Mr. WOLFE. I would not.
                                    Mr. DUNNING. No good Democrat could accept any such
                                          proposition, nor 
                                          consent to anything less than "the Union--now and
                                          forever--one and inseparable."
                                    Mr. MURRAY believed that any proposition for peace that would
                                          look to nothing but a restoration of the Union would be
                                          rejected by the rebel government, and he sometimes wished
                                          that propositions could be submitted to that government,
                                          for their rejection would unite the North for the Union
                                          and increase the Union sentiment at the South. In
                                          conclusion he read a pledge that was being publicly
                                          circulated in Elkhart county, pledging the signers to an
                                          unconditional support of the war and to sustain Governor
                                          Morton and prevent at all hazards, any attempt to take
                                          from him the executive and military powers conferred upon
                                          him by the Constitution. He read this to show that secret
                                          societies had produced counter organizations of a public
                                          character, and that the people were agitated upon the
                                          subject.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. Does not the gentleman believe that there is a
                                          little foundation for the formation of these societies as
                                          there was for the formation of Know Nothing societies to
                                          oppose an invasion by the Pope of Rome?
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I have already said I did not believe there was
                                          any foundation for their fears but those fears exist, and
                                          he was opposed to all treasures that would have a tendency
                                          to increase them. He opposed the resolution as
                                          amended.
                                    Mr. DUNNING heartily concurred in what was said by the
                                          Senator from Henry yesterday as to laying aside party
                                          spurt until the rebellion was subdued. He denounced the
                                          rebellion at its commencement as causeless and wicked as
                                          he did now. He made speeches and aided in raising troops,
                                          but while he in good faith was acting thus he feared the
                                          President was departing from the landmarks he had laid
                                          down for the prosecution of the war. Even up to the 18th
                                          of June Convention he was still in hope that the President
                                          would adhere to his original plan of conducting the war
                                          for the restoration of ten Government and for that object
                                          solely. He opposed the 8th of January Convention, thinking
                                          it ill timed, and was not bound by it, He was not for
                                          party. He was for his country first, last and all the
                                          time. He had not made a speech for the war which he would
                                          take back. But a programme had been inaugurated by the
                                          present Congress the most infamous that ever disgraced any
                                          body of men. He longed for the 4th of March when that set
                                          of men would be sent to their homes, there, he trusted, to
                                          remain. He detested their infamous programme and acted
                                          thenceforward with the Democratic party. He wished to
                                          reply to the arguments of the gentleman from Henry and the
                                          gentleman from Randolph in regard to the emancipation
                                          proclamation, it was to break the back bone of the
                                          rebellion, according to the Senator from Randolph, by
                                          taking away their labor, while the President advises the
                                          slave to remain with his master and work for wages, to be
                                          peaceable and gentle. This was beautiful logic to present
                                          to an intelligent Senate. The Senator from Delaware
                                          objected to criticisms upon military orders even of the
                                          President. In reference to that matter he would read from
                                          a letter written by Mr. Seward to Mr. Adams after the
                                          elections in October and November.-- (It was in reference
                                          to the habit of the American people to canvass the acts of
                                          the Administration.)
                                    Mr. MARCH, All right, I see nothing in that.
                                    Mr. DUNNING. If the gentleman sees nothing in it is well.
                                          Since the elections since the conservative citizens bad
                                          spoken, a little more latitude was given to the expression
                                          of opinion. Whenever it came to that pass that the people
                                          could not canvass any act of the Administration, our
                                          liberties as a people were gone forever. He said there was
                                          force in the remarks of the Senator from Lawrence (Mr.
                                          Cobb) that the President intended to have his proclamation
                                          enforced by the bayonet. He did not, however, think it
                                          could be made to do much harm. The President had made the
                                          strongest argument against it that ever had been made. He
                                          read the President's reply to the Chicago
                                          delegation, he wished the opposition to hear it. He read,
                                          it paragraph by paragraph, and commented on each with
                                          great eloquence, he denounced the last paragraph as the
                                          foulest sentiment ever uttered--a sentiment that would
                                          disgrace a barbarian. He contended if this proclamation
                                          could do no good, why do they adhere to it with a death
                                          grasp? Why not gratify the Democratic party in the loyal
                                          States of the Union and withdraw it? Why would they not
                                          give this little indulgence to the sentiment of a loyal
                                          people and a loyal party? He believed that the issue of
                                          this proclamation turned the elections in favor of the
                                          Democratic party. It stirred up the mighty heat of the
                                          people, and their sentiment, was poured out at the ballot
                                          box. Let me tell you that the people are opposed to it. He
                                          knew they were opposed to it.
                                    Mr. REED. Docs the gentleman think the proclamation
                                          constitutional?
                                    Mr. DUNNING did not. He found no warrant for taking private
                                          property without compensation in the Constitution.
                                    Mr. REED. Does the gentleman endorse the President's
                                          letter to Horace Greeley, that he would sacrifice slavery
                                          to restore the Union?
                                    Mr. DUNNING. If the rebels would place their slaves between
                                          the Constitution and the restoration of the Union, he
                                          would let them go to the warmest place he could name. He
                                          advocated an armis- 
                                          tice for the purpose of trying whether, with all their
                                          rights under the Constitution restored to them, the rebel
                                          States would not return to the family and live again in
                                          peace. He believed, with Senator Douglas, that war was
                                          disunion. One of his plans of settlement shadowed forth in
                                          his last speech in the Senate, was nothing but an
                                          armistice. The people demanded this. They did not want a
                                          dishonorable peace, but they felt convinced that if reason
                                          and not passion was suffered to rule, that peace could be
                                          had. But gentlemen are denounced as disloyal who make such
                                          propositions. Put up two candidates in each county, one
                                          for a war of subjugation, and one for an honorable peace,
                                          and ninety out of ninety-nine counties would return the
                                          peace candidates by overwhelming majorities. He denied
                                          flat these who favored an armistice were disloyal men. The
                                          Democratic party was composed of as good Union men as
                                          could be found anywhere. For himself he had no feelings
                                          for his Southern brethren. He had declared at Charleston
                                          that he would never, consent that slavery should be
                                          extended over a country without the consent of the free
                                          white voters thereof, and had been insulted there for
                                          declaring such sentiments. The leaders of the rebellion in
                                          the Democratic party had led the rebellion against the
                                          government, and if they could be tried and hung they
                                          should receive no sympathy from him. But there was a large
                                          class at the South who had, from various causes, been
                                          driven into opposition to the national government, and
                                          these should not be punished if peace should be declared.
                                          In conclusion he appealed to the minority to yield their
                                          prejudices in favor of the proclamation, but whether they
                                          did so or not, he hoped and believed the Democratic party
                                          would not be driven from supporting the country in every
                                          effort to restore the government to its happy condition
                                          before the rebellion threw its shadow over this once
                                          prosperous land. He was for conservative measures that
                                          would increase the Union sentiment in the Southern
                                          States.
                                    [Mr. WILLIAMS. (unanimous consent being given) reported from
                                          a select committee a bill [111] to apportion the State for
                                          Senators and Representatives for the next six years, which
                                          was read twice under a suspension of the rules, and
                                          ordered to be printed.]
                                    Mr. SHIELDS had been as highly gratified as any person could
                                          be as the speeches made on the subject under discussion,
                                          but yet the Senate had other duties to perform. He did not
                                          think the amendments were strictly germain to the Joint
                                          Resolution. They would perhaps be better in a separate
                                          Joint Resolution. He moved to lay all the amendments on
                                          the table.
                                    Mr. Douglass withdrew his amendment.
                                    The amendment (Mr. Claypool's) as amended (by Mr.
                                          Wolfe) was agreed to--yeas 31, nays 11, 2 not voting.
                                    During the call of the roll--
                                    Mr. BEESON said he voted for that part which favored a
                                          vigorous prosecution of the war, and against that part
                                          which demanded the withdrawal of the proclamation, and
                                          asked that his vote be so recorded.
                                    The PRESIDENT said this could not be done.
                                    Messrs. BROWNE of Randolph, and Mr. WHITE said they were for
                                          one part of the amendment and against another, but would
                                          vote aye.
                                    Mr. MARCH offered an amendment to strike out all after the
                                          enacting clause, and to insert the following:
                                    
                                          That notwithstanding there may be differences
                                                of opinion in regard to the policy of some of the
                                                war measures of the National Administration, yet the
                                                State of Indiana, without distinction of party,
                                                still unwavering in her devotion and attachment to
                                                the National Government, again reiterates her
                                                pledges of fidelity to the common cause, and will
                                                with all her energies, with all her power, and all
                                                her means, press steadily forward in the war to pat
                                                down the rebellion, restore the Union and the
                                                Constitution, with the distinct understanding that
                                                the same is not prosecuted for any sectional,
                                                political or anti-slavery purpose.
                                          That our Senators be instructed and our
                                                Representatives be requested to vote for all laws
                                                having the effect to lighten the labor, protect the
                                                health, and save the lives of white soldiers by
                                                employing acclimated persons of African descent,
                                                wherever their services can be made useful and safe,
                                                having proper regard to their capacity, previous
                                                relation to the whites, the antipathies of race,
                                                condition and color in framing such laws.
                                    
                                    Mr. COBB moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                                    An ineffectual motion was made to adjourn--yeas 20, nays
                                          24.
                                    The motion to lay on the table was agreed to--yeas 24, nays
                                          20--as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bradley,
                                                  Brown, of Wells; Cobb, Corbin, Davis, of Cass,
                                                  Douglass, Dunning, Ferguson, Finch, Fuller,
                                                  Gifford, Hartley, Hoagland, Hord, Jenkins,
                                                  Johnston, Landers, McClurg, Moore, Ray, Shields,
                                                  William, Wilson and Wolfe--24.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bearss,
                                                  Beeson, Berry, Blair, Browne, of Randolph,
                                                  Claypool, Dickinson, Downey, Graves, Grubb,
                                                  Mansfield, March, Mellett, Murray, Mew, Pleak,
                                                  Heed, Teegarden, White and Wright--20.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 11,1863.
                              
                              Mr. WOOLLEN presented a petition from citizens of Johnson and
                                    Morgan counties, asking enforcement of the 13th Article of
                                    Constitution.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Recommending that House bills 7 (see page 43,) and 90 (p.
                                          85;) be laid on the table were concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY.
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees; were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted to-wit:
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK, into the expediency of reducing the amount
                                          charged by the  State
                                          for license to retail spirituous, vinous and malt liquors,
                                          in consequence of the additional tax charged by the United
                                          States Government under the recent act of Congress, known
                                          as the "Excise Law," and to report by
                                          bill or otherwise.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, into the propriety of enclosing the grounds of
                                          the Insane Asylum.
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN, in reference to the construction of toll
                                          gates.
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN, in reference to the firing of guns across
                                          roads, or disturbance of religious meetings by firing them
                                          on Sundays.
                                    Mr. FORESTER introduced joint resolution [31] instructing
                                          Senators and requesting Representatives, &c.,
                                          against the passage of a bankrupt law, which was read the
                                          first time.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. HUMPHREYS, [180] fixing printers fees for advertising
                                          Sheriffs' sales.
                                    By Mr. WOODRUFF, [181] to amend the act relating to Justices
                                          of the Peace.
                                    By Mr. GRIFFITH. [182] to amend the Common School act it
                                          reference to the enumeration of children.
                                    By Mr. JONES. [183] to authorize county Commissioners to
                                          prohibit hogs from running at large.
                                    By Mr. GRIFFITH, [184] to amend the law regulating the sale
                                          of swamp lands.
                                     By Mr. MORGAN, [185] to amend section 8 of the plank road
                                          act.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    Senate bills 15, 26, (see page 55;) 19, 20, 22, (p. 60;) 24,
                                          (p. 61;) 26, 2S, 30, (p. 79;) 32, 33, 39, (p. 80;) and 93,
                                          (p. 121:) were read the second time and appropriately
                                          referred.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    A report from a committee recommending that the bill H. R. 71
                                          (see p. 68) be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                          The following described House bills were read the third
                                                time and finally passed, unless otherwise
                                                stated:
                                          Mr. Brown's, [40] to amend the act relating to
                                                Common Pleas Courts. (It defines their jurisdiction
                                                in all cases felony.) Failed--yeas 19, nays 61.
                                          Mr. Spencer's, [48] to prohibit judges of
                                                Common Pleas Courts from practicing as attorneys in
                                                inferior Courts--yeas 82, nays 1.
                                          Mr. Garvin's, [57] to tax U. S. stamps, used
                                                on legal documents in any suit, as costs--yeas 87,
                                                nays 1.
                                          Mr. Lasselle's, [58] to amend section 80 of
                                                the Practice act. (It provides that a writing
                                                purporting to be executed by any one may be admitted
                                                as evidence in suits, when not denied by affidavit.
                                                The present law confined the admission of such
                                                papers to those executed by one of the parties to
                                                the suit)--yeas 73, nays 11.
                                          Mr. Packard's. [62] to amend the act
                                                prescribing the crime of arson. (It changes the law
                                                so that to fire unfinished buildings, as where the
                                                doors are not hung, is arson, instead of malicious
                                                trespass, as the law now stands--yeas 78, nays
                                                6.
                                          Mr. Spencer's, [82] to amend the 6th section
                                                of the act relating to County Boards. (It changes
                                                the law so that Commissioners may meet at the
                                                Auditor's office in place of the Court
                                                House)--yeas 83, nays 2.
                                          Mr. Higgin's, [83] to amend the 21st section
                                                of the act relating to Justices of the Peace. (It
                                                imposes a penalty for Justices neglecting to pay
                                                over fees or fines which come into their hands)--
                                                yeas 83, nays 1.
                                          Mr. Roberts, [110] to regulate weights and measures.
                                                (The bill changes the weight of coal mined out of
                                                the 8tate at 80 pounds, instead of 70 pounds,
                                                leaving Indiana coal at 70 pounds)--yeas 74 nays
                                                4.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 12, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL presented a memorial and resolutions from the Indiana
                                    officers and soldiers in the Army of the Cumberland. He said
                                    that in presenting these papers he performed the most pleasing
                                    duty of his Senatorial life. The memorial was couched in
                                    courteous but manly language, and contained sentiments which he
                                    believed every Senator could endorse; for whatever opinions
                                    might exist as to the military dictating to the civil power, no
                                    one could take exceptions to this document on that ground. It
                                    was not gotten up in the spirit of interference, but contained
                                    suggestions from those who had the right to advise--suggestions
                                    that should be carefully considered by both legislators and
                                    people.
                               Mr. COBB said that he was willing to vote to place the documents
                                    on the journal, and to print, if need be, ten thousand copies to
                                    circulate among the people, yet he had been well informed that
                                    these proceedings of the Army of the Cumberland had been
                                    instigated by Governor Morton and republican members of the
                                    Legislature, and that the vote upon them had been unfairly put
                                    to the soldiers. Improper influences had been used and false
                                    charges made against, the majority of this Legislature, and the
                                    soldiers made to believe that there was a movement on foot to
                                    take Indiana out of the Union, when such had never been the case
                                    and never would be. Such is the effect of military  discipline that the soldiers
                                    were governed and somewhat controlled in expressing their
                                    opinions by their immediate commanders, and such votes were not
                                    the free expressions of the men composing the Array of the
                                    Cumberland.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL denied the right of any man to search the hearts of
                                    the minority of the Senate and to say what they had or bad not
                                    advised or instigated. He denied that the members of the
                                    minority of this Legislature had instigated the proceedings at
                                    Murfreesboro. Senators had no right to suppose that these
                                    proceedings came from any one else than those whose names were
                                    appended to them. And coming from such a source it was proper
                                    that they should be treated respectfully. It was imaginary to
                                    suppose that the free citizens of Indiana who compose our
                                    gallant soldiery had been influenced to vote, against their own
                                    free will, upon this memorial and these resolutions. All such
                                    charges were but imputations upon the character of our
                                    Soldiers.
                              Mr. COBB denied that he had said anything that could be considered
                                    as casting any such imputation upon our soldiers. He had
                                    received a letter from a Brigadier General of that army who
                                    asserted positively that Gov. Morton had sent an agent to
                                    instigate these proceedings, and that he (the Brigadier General)
                                    would not permit such a vote to be taken in his Brigade. He had,
                                    also, received letters stating that this vote had been put to
                                    the men, under appeals to stand by the flag, and in such a way
                                    that the soldiers had no opportunity to fairly vote upon
                                    them.
                              Mr. MARCH said that it had been assorted that the
                                    President's proclamation had divided the army and
                                    introduced dissensions therein. This memorial and the
                                    proceedings therein showed that instead of such being the case,
                                    the Army of the Cumberland, at least, was united almost to a man
                                    for the prosecution of the war and for no armistice until an
                                    honorable peace was secured. He believed the sentiments
                                    contained in these proceedings to have been freely, honestly and
                                    unbiasedly expressed. They showed that the soldiers were not
                                    scared at the proclamation, and that they had not lost faith in
                                    the ability of the army to put down the rebellion.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to lay the documents on the table, and that
                                    5,000 copies be printed.
                              Mr. WOLFE bad no objection to the printing but would prefer that
                                    the papers go to a committee and when reported upon that the
                                    report and the communications be printed in a document
                                    together.
                              Mr. RAY hoped nothing would be done to get up a controversy between
                                    the Senate and the army; and favored the printing.
                              The motion was agreed to--yeas 37, nays 8.
                              The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate the proceedings of the 66th
                                    and 931 Indiana regiments, stationed at Corinth, with
                                    resolutions accompanying the same. (The resolutions are similar
                                    to those passed by the Illinois regiments.)
                              Mr. WOLFE moved to reject the paper.
                              Mr. RAY moved to amend by naming the third and fourth resolutions
                                    as disrespectful and offensive to the General Assembly.
                              Mr. BEARSS could not see why the paper should be rejected. It did
                                    not hurt him.
                              Mr. JOHNSTON was for rejecting the whole batch. They were intended
                                    as an insult to all who favored an armistice.
                              Mr. RAY said, on reflection, he would withdraw his motion,
                                    believing that the spirit that prompted two of the resolutions
                                    should be rebuked by a rejection of the whole.
                              Mr. WOLFE. Resolutions from this capital have been sent to the army
                                    for the purpose of misleading the army itself; but I will tell
                                    Governor Morton, and his minions here and elsewhere, that he may
                                    erect batteries in the vicinity of this city, and point cannons
                                    at this capital and fire them till he leaves not one stone upon
                                    another in this capital, and he will not move me from the
                                    faithful discharge of my duty. I say come weal or woe, life or
                                    death to me, I am going to discharge my duty as I understand it.
                                    There was a settled and wicked attempt made by men about this
                                    capital to inaugurate a civil war. A persistent effort was made
                                    to misrepresent the majority on this floor, to lie upon and to
                                    slander them, to mislead the army by the circulation of damnable
                                    lies. If not stopped it will lead to bloodshed. I am in
                                    possession of a condition of things that gentleman are perhaps
                                    not aware of. I am fully in possession of them to an extent
                                    sufficient to satisfy my own mind in regard to what is being
                                    done; but I prefer to keep my ova counsel until there is a
                                    necessity. I am not disposed to push this discussion, it is
                                    giving the subject too much dignity. I hope the Senate will
                                    promptly reject the infamous paper.
                              Mr. MELLETT. If I had been drafting a petition to the Legislature I
                                    should have used better words, if I wanted to convey the same
                                    idea. I am satisfied there are some words used in the paper not
                                    strictly parliamentary. Gentleman are sensitive because,
                                    perhaps, the word "traitor'' is used;
                                    yet the gentleman from Harrison, (Mr. Wolfe,) had the honor of
                                    introducing resolutions is this body denouncing rue as a moral
                                    traitor, and if not for the forms of law a legal traitor.
                              Mr. WOLFE (interrupting.) I heard the Senator declare not long ago
                                    that he belonged to no party whatever, and now  he wants to come within the
                                    range of my gun.
                              Mr. MELLETT. I see no point in what the gentleman says; but because
                                    soldiers in the field, not accustomed to parliamentary tactic
                                    use some harsh words, he is very sensitive, but I, holding
                                    different views from him must sit here and be denounced as a
                                    moral traitor from one end of the session to the other. We have
                                    been accustomed to hearing hard names applied to the Governor of
                                    Indiana; and the Senator from Monroe, (Mr. Dunning,) on
                                    yesterday said a certain act of the President of the United
                                    States would disgrace a barbarian. Now while such language as
                                    this is heard by Senators upon this floor they become sensitive
                                    and indignant because soldiers in the field, unaccustomed to
                                    parliamentary usages, use language not respectful.
                              Mr. WILLIAMS (interrupting.) Is Geo. W. Carr not a
                                    parliamentarian?
                              Mr. MELLETT. I suppose he is, but I was not aware that he was one
                                    of the petitioners. The great respect I have for Geo. W. Carr
                                    will forever prevent me from voting against the petition--the
                                    man who presided over the Constitutional Convention that gave us
                                    that glorious Democratic Constitution containing the 13th
                                    Article! That convinces me that perhaps I was wrong when I said
                                    it was not respectful and parliamentary.
                              Mr. McCLURG. I was satisfied that the basis of the first petition
                                    (from Murfreesboro) was respectful and I was disposed to give it
                                    a respectful and kind hearing; but, Mr. President, the petition
                                    that is brought before us at this time seems to claim none. It
                                    does seem to me that it carries on its face an insult, and the
                                    thing is of so violent a character that the men seem to have
                                    been intoxicated with power. I say the petition ought to be
                                    rejected as being, for want of respect, doubly unworthy to be
                                    considered by a body that ought to be as dignified as the Senate
                                    of Indiana. I can to some extent, notwithstanding the fact that
                                    the petition comes covered with infamous language, excuse the
                                    action of the soldiers and officers who are thousands of miles
                                    away, for there is no doubt that misrepresentations have been
                                    sent to them from the heart of the State of Indiana. No doubt
                                    they believe there exists upon the floor of this Senate a body
                                    of men whose hearts are ready to plead against the best
                                    interests of the State. These charges have been made from the
                                    stump and the press, and coming to them uncontradicted, they may
                                    be tilled with the sentiments which has induced this petition.
                                    It is but the misrepresentation of their party friends and they
                                    know not what they say, yet on account of the disrespectful
                                    language in the paper, and the high crime it charges upon
                                    members of this House, I claim that it is undignified for the
                                    Senate to pay it a particle of respect, and it should be spurned
                                    from the consideration of the body.
                              Mr. REED. I think the language might have been a little more
                                    courteous and respectful to the Senate; but I rise for the
                                    purpose of asking the Senator from Harrison, (Mr. Wolfe,) a
                                    question: which is most respectful to the Senate a soldier with
                                    arms in his hands who denounces an armistice, or he who calls
                                    Senators minions of Gov. Morton?
                              Mr. WOLFE denied characterizing men on this floor as minions of the
                                    Governor.
                              Mr. BLAIR said if the soldiers believed that the effect of an
                                    armistice would be to weaken our own army and strengthen that of
                                    the rebels, he didn't know but that it was proper for
                                    them to class as traitorous such conduct. The soldiers knew that
                                    attempts were being made to take from Governor Morton his
                                    military power, and with the feeling they had for him, it was
                                    proper that they should express their indignation at such
                                    attempts. He could not endorse the language in which they were
                                    couched, however.
                              Mr. GRAVES. I yield the point that these resolutions should be
                                    rejected, although I act with the minority on this floor. They
                                    ought to have been cast out of the door in one minute. Whatever
                                    may be the opinion these men have of Senators upon this floor,
                                    whenever they come before the body and ask any kind of
                                    legislation it is their duty to address it ia respectful terms,
                                    and no set of men who expect any favorable action at the hand of
                                    a legislative body, would address it in any other than
                                    respectful terms. I hope the minority will join the majority in
                                    rejecting these resolutions. I shall vote to reject them
                                    notwithstanding I am prepared to treat courteously any
                                    respectful petition, coming from whatever source it may. I
                                    looked favorably upon the memorial resented this morning, for it
                                    was respectful; but this is of a different character. There is a
                                    low bred ingenuity of expression used in this paper, and I
                                    believe it ought to be rejected by this Senate. I hope and trust
                                    every member of the minority will vote to reject it.
                               Mr. MANSFIELD. I have always said an army might be made in the
                                    course of time a political machine. This petition here certainly
                                    contains some objectionable language. If it came from men who
                                    had the means to ascertain what is going on hero. I would be for
                                    immediately rejecting it without consideration ; but we ought to
                                    make some slight allowance for our men who are at such a
                                    distance that their information concerning us has to pass
                                    through a number of channels; and if they are wrought to a
                                    degree of passion which would not take place were they here, we
                                    ought to make some allowance for that. I should like to see the
                                    objec-  tionable part of
                                    the resolutions taken out, for I dislike to reject them all.
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. I agree with gentlemen that the language
                                    used in these resolutions is not respectful to the Senate, but
                                    differ with them in reference to what the action of the Senate
                                    should be ; and I shall state briefly the reason why I shall
                                    vote against rejecting the resolutions. I am in favor of the
                                    fullest, freest, and most untrammeled right of petition, and the
                                    fullest, widest and broadest liberty of speech. I am in favor of
                                    extending the right of petition to the lowest, meanest, and most
                                    miserable being that exists in the State, as well as to the
                                    highest and most honorable. I am in favor of allowing them to
                                    address us in whatever language may suit their sense of
                                    propriety or their conviction of duty; and if these resolutions
                                    contain charges with reference to the loyalty of the majority or
                                    minority of Senators upon this floor the most effective the most
                                    complete vindication the Senate can make is to receive the
                                    petition, and prove by their conduct that they do not, and never
                                    have, committed the high crimes with which they have been
                                    charged. While he didn't believe that members of this
                                    Senate were for any disloyal scheme, looking to a disruption, of
                                    the country, it could not be denied that there were many members
                                    of the Democratic party who were in favor of separating the East
                                    from the West. Honest men of that party had told him so,and
                                    knowledge of the existence of such a state of feeling had
                                    reached the army, and could it be wondered at that those who are
                                    fighting to destroy one species of secession from the Union
                                    would remain quiet with reference to another species of disunion
                                    ?
                              Mr. COBB asked if the fanatical or radical element in the
                                    Republican party was not in favor of acknowledging the Southern
                                    Confederacy ?
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, believed they were. If they attempted it,
                                    they should be crushed out, and he hoped in God they would be.
                                    In troublous times the tendency of all parties
                                    was to submit to the dictation of the fanatical element. Such
                                    was the tendency in my own party. The Democracy had to fear the
                                    supremacy of that portion of that party favoring a separation
                                    from New England. I denounce the position of Senator Conway, (if
                                    he was correctly reported) in which he favors the severance of
                                    the Southern States from the Union. I denounce, in unmeasured
                                    terms, this position and those who may assume it. I have no
                                    sympathy with the measure nor the men. It is disunion. Public
                                    opinion ought to overwhelm the expression, and if it culminates
                                    in an overt act it will be treason, deserving speedy and
                                    ignominious punishment. The Republican party is not, and will
                                    never be, committed to the proposition of the Kansas Senator. He
                                    hoped the petition would be received and referred, and gentlemen
                                    here could prove to these men by their acts that they were
                                    wrong. It would be the most dignified way of disposing of the
                                    matter.
                              Mr. JOHNSTON. I am as much in favor of the right of petition as the
                                    gentleman from Randolph. There is no gentleman more in favor of
                                    it. But it is said these men do not know what they are doing.
                                    Now that is not our fault. If they have thus acted, we ought to
                                    reject it on that account. I understand there are some other
                                    things to be legislated about besides the army. The legislative
                                    power has its duties and the army has its. I learn from the
                                    Constitution that the army is not the war-making power. They
                                    have no right to send into this Senate any such resolutions as
                                    they have sent. But there is another objection to them. There is
                                    an insinuation contained in them that we had better look to what
                                    we are doing, or the power of this army might be brought to bear
                                    upon us here. Now, if that is for the purpose of scaring this
                                    General Assembly into any measure. I hope and trust they will
                                    learn that we don't scare worth a cent. I shall vote to
                                    reject these resolutions.
                              Mr. COBB. There is no Senator who would concede the right of
                                    petition quicker than I, but the petitioners ought to couch it
                                    in proper language, or otherwise the party petitioned has the
                                    right to reject it This paper is intended as a denunciation of
                                    the majority on this floor, and, whatever the minority may say,
                                    there is a great duty to be performed on the part of this Senate
                                    in regard to this petition and resolutions ; and we ought to
                                    reject it because it is not couched in proper language. It is
                                    casting an imputation, that we are traitors here, in both houses
                                    of this General Assembly. It is our imperative duty to reject
                                    these resolutions. We are here the representatives of the
                                    honorable people of the great State of Indiana, and to be
                                    treated in this kind of a, way is an insult to the people of the
                                    great State of Indiana. For one, I will vote to reject them.
                                    These men are misled, but there is a design in it; and I need
                                    not say that I know the source from whence it has emanated.
                              Mr. RAY (interposing). I find in the Cincinnati Commercial of this
                                    morning these identical resolutions adopted by Illinois
                                    regiments ; which shows that they have been concocted elsewhere
                                    and sent to these regiments in the field.
                              Mr. COBB. The evidence will be divulged and published to the world.
                                    I know now, but will take my time to tell. The Senator from
                                    Harrison (Mr. Wolfe) only expressed a knowledge that there was a
                                    scheme laid at one time, and not abandoned yet, terrible in its
                                    charac-  ter. The source
                                    from which I draw my conclusions comes from the fountain head
                                    and while I am here for the purpose of doing nothing that will
                                    aggravate. I will say to Senators: be cautious and beware
                                    of'what you do. But I have digressed from the question.
                                    These soldiers are misled. They are men of sense. and will
                                    reflect, and when the evidence is presented to them they will
                                    act properly.
                              Mr. MELLETT (interposing). Does not the Senator know and believe
                                    that there is, and has been, a secret organization in Indiana,
                                    composed of Democrats, known as the Knights of the Golden
                                    Circle, whose object was to demoralize the army?
                              Mr. COBB. No, sir. I do not know any such thing; and I never heard
                                    any such thing intimated by a Democrat.
                              Mr. MELLETT. I tell the Senator from Lawrence that it is a fact,
                                    and I apprehend he can ascertain that such a secret order exists
                                    in every Co. of the State.
                              Mr. COBB. That part I deny.
                              Mr. MELLETT. If the Senator undertake to defend the organization,I
                                    undertake to say that it does exist.
                              Mr. COBB. The Senator does not receive his information from members
                                    of that party, and therefore knows nothing about it.
                              Mr. MELLETT. I get my information from members of that order,
                                    implicating Democrats all over the State of Indiana, and have
                                    sufficient evidence to satisfy my mind that it exists in every
                                    county.
                              Mr. COBB. I state to the Senator that he is mistaken. He may have
                                    learned in the manner in which he has, but the source of his
                                    information I have no doubt is untrue. I have heard that there
                                    is such an organization in the country for home protection, but
                                    I have never heard it intimated by any one except a Republican
                                    that the object was to demoralize the army. It is contended all
                                    the time that there is no such object on the part of that
                                    organization; but it is said the organization existed for the
                                    purposes of self protection against the illegal arrests made by
                                    this tyrannical Administration. I say there is no such
                                    organization, composed of Democrats, in this State, whose object
                                    it is to demoralize the army and break it down. Does not the
                                    Senator know that there is an organization formed to receive
                                    arms from the Governor to defend themselves from the Democratic
                                    organization said to be in the State?
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. I do not know of one solitary gun or
                                    munition of war distributed to any one.
                              Mr. COBB. I should ask pardon of the Senate for detaining them so
                                    long (half an hour beyond the usual time of the recess for
                                    dinner), but I would not have done it had it not been for the
                                    interrogatories of Senators.
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. RAY moved to amend the motion to reject, by way of
                                          substitute, as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved,That the memorial
                                                  and resolutions offered to the Senate be rejected
                                                  as disrespectful and offensive to the dignity and
                                                  honor of the Senate, and as a further mark of
                                                  disapprobation, that the Secretary of the Senate
                                                  be instructed to return the same to the source
                                                  from which they came, accompanied with a copy of
                                                  this resolution.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr MURRAY said that if any meeting of citizens in the State
                                          would use such language as is contained in the petition
                                          under consideration, he would vote to reject it. It was
                                          the uniform custom to reject memorials coached in
                                          disrespectful language, and he would vole to reject this
                                          one. It was the only protection a legislative body
                                          had.
                                    Mr. MARCH said he voted against the rejection on the ground
                                          that their rejection would lead to a further discussion of
                                          the matter in the army. He had heard resolutions read and
                                          referred that were quite as disrespectful. He had heard
                                          language used here this morning that was disrespectful to
                                          somebody, but the Senator from Lawrence (Mr. Cobb) did not
                                          say who. The Senator had admitted the existence of a
                                          secret society with purposes favorable to the rebellion in
                                          the Southern States, composed of Democrats. This had been
                                          known before, because the Grand Jury of the Circuit Court
                                          of the United States had made a presentment showing the
                                          existence of such an order. This society may have some
                                          good men in it, but it had, no doubt, been originated by.
                                          and was now controlled by traitors. He knew of no other
                                          secret political society, and it came with an ill grace
                                          from the Senator from Lawrence to charge that this society
                                          was called into existence by any recent acts of the State
                                          or National Administrations, when the order had been in
                                          existence long before the time when it was charged Such
                                          acts had been committed or meditated. It could not be
                                          considered an order for self-defence. He advised all good
                                          men to keep out of all secret political organizations.
                                    Mr. TEEGARDEN said that while he cordially endorsed some of
                                          the resolutions, he admitted that the language of some
                                          other portions was not as choice as he might have been.
                                          But he could overlook the harsh expressions, because the
                                          soldiers felt that an armistice would disgrace them, and
                                          felt aggrieved at the attempts made at the North looking
                                          to such a project, and he could not vote to reject the
                                          paper.
                                    Mr. COBB moved the previous question, and it being seconded,
                                          the main question recurred on the resolution, which was
                                          adopted by yeas 28, nays 18--as follows:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bradley,
                                                  Brown, of Wells, Cobb, Corbin, Davis, of Cass,
                                                  Douglass, Downey, Dunning. Ferguson, Finch,
                                                  Fuller, Gaff, Gifford, Graves, Hartley, Hoagland,
                                                  Hord, Jenkins, Johnston, Landers, McClurg, Moore,
                                                  Murray, Ray, Shields, Williams Wilson, and
                                                  Wolfe--28.

                                                  

                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bearss,
                                                  Beeson, Berry, Blair, Browne, of Randolph,
                                                  Campbell, Claypool, Culver, Dickinson, Grubb,
                                                  Mansfield, March, Mellett, New, Pleak, Reed,
                                                  Teegarden, and Wright--18.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. DUNNING, a recess was had for one hour, that
                                          Senators might witness the artillery practice which was to
                                          take place immediately, near the old State Fair
                                          grounds.
                                    The Senate was called to order at 4 p. m.--Mr. Cobb in the
                                          Chair.
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed to the second reading
                                                :
                                          By Mr. BRADLEY, [112] to amend the 7th section of an
                                                act entitled an act to provide for the election of a
                                                Reporter of the decisions of the Supreme Court,
                                                approved February 5, 1852.
                                          By Mr. FULLER, [113] to repeal an act to provide for
                                                the defence of the State of Indiana, to procure the
                                                first-class arms, artillery, cavalry and infantry
                                                equipments and munitions of war, making the
                                                necessary appropriations therefor, and authorizing
                                                the Governor to borrow money.
                                          By Mr. RAY, [114] to amend section 13 of an act
                                                entitled an act defining felonies, approved June 10
                                                1852, and to more fully protect the citizens of
                                                Indiana from arbitrary arrests, and securing the
                                                privileges of the writ of habeas corpus to such as
                                                may be arrested without due process of law.
                                          By Mr. DOUGLASS, [115] to amend an act for the
                                                incorporation of towns, approved June 11, 1852.
                                          By Mr. RAY, [116] authorizing the Secretary of State to
                                                purchase and distribute for the use of the State,
                                                copies of a new edition of Blackford's
                                                Reports, and appropriating money to pay for the
                                                same.
                                          By Mr. DAVIS, of Cass, [117] to amend section 111 of an
                                                act to provide for a general system of Common
                                                Schools--fixing the per centage to be paid County
                                                Auditors and Treasurers.
                                          By Mr MARCH, [118] to amend the 70th section of the
                                                Justice's act approved June 9, 1852.
                                    
                                    
                                          PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                          Mr. HORD offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                                inquiring of the Governor what amount is due by the
                                                General Government to the soldiers from Indiana, and
                                                what amount per month it would take to pay the
                                                soldiers from this State in the future.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                          Mr. MELLETT introduced a joint resolution. [12]
                                                declaring that the General Assembly of the State of
                                                Indiana is unconditionally and determinedly in favor
                                                of the preservation of the Union and in favor of a
                                                vigorous prosecution of the war, which was read the
                                                first time.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEGROES IN COMMON SCHOOLS.
                                          The Committee on Education reported
                                                back the bill, S. 40, with an amendment, and when so
                                                amended recommended that it pass.
                                          The amendment proposed to exclude from the common
                                                schools all persons having "any"
                                                negro blood, instead of limiting it to one-eighth,
                                                as in the law.
                                          Messrs. DOUGLASS and LANDERS advocated the report, and
                                                Messrs. WOLFE, MARCH and BROWNE, of Randolph,
                                                opposed it.
                                          The Senate refused to concur in the report by yeas 20,
                                                nays 22--as follows :
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bradley, Cobb,
                                                  Corbin, Davis, of Cass, Douglass, Finch, fuller,
                                                  Gaff, Hartley, Hoagland, Hord, Jenkins, Johnston,
                                                  Landers, Moore, Ray, Shields, White, Williams and
                                                  Wilson--20.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bearss,
                                                  Beeson, Berry, Blair, Browne, of Randolph,
                                                  Campbell, Claypool, Downey, Dunning, Ferguson,
                                                  Gifford, Graves, McClurg, Mansfield, March,
                                                  Mellett, New, Pleak, Reed, Teegarden. Wolfe and
                                                  Wright--22.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          So the amendment was not adopted.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, February 12,1863.
                              
                              Petitions were presented and referred to appropriate committees,
                                    to-wit:
                              By Mr. PACKARD, from citizens of Porter county, asking for a
                                    stringent law to prevent poll officials from taking ballot boxes
                                    home and sleeping- with them before the votes are counted.
                              By Mr. RICHARDSON, from citizens of White county, for protection of
                                    fur-producing animals.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Recommending that House bills 68, (see page 68;) 86, 88, (p.
                                          85;) 98, (p. 94;) and 126, (p. 112;) be laid on the table,
                                          were severally concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    WIDOWS' PROPERTY.
                                    A majority of the Judiciary Committee
                                          reported back the bill, [H.R. 84] repealing the 18th
                                          section of the law of descents--recommending that it be
                                          laid on the table.
                                    Mr. PACKARD presented a minority report recommending the
                                          passage of the bill. The bill removes the restriction upon
                                          property held by women acquired from deceased husbands,
                                          which discourages them from marrying again. It was no more
                                          just to impose such a restriction on the widow than on the
                                          husband.
                                    Mr. MILLER followed in a like argument.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON replied that married women were better off than
                                          the men were. Their property was not responsible for their
                                          debts, nor for the support of the family, while the
                                          husband lived. In every feature but this the law favored
                                          women.-- He thought the Legislature should hesitate at
                                          innovation.
                                    Mr. CASON spoke in favor of the majority report, and Mr.
                                          SPENCER against it.

                                    

                                    Mr. WOOLLEN sustained the law now on the statute book, and
                                          spoke against the repeal of the section indicated.
                                    Messrs. HOWARD, GREGORY and BURTON sustained the majority
                                          report.
                                    Mr. HARDIN, of Perry, demanded the previous question.
                                    The House sustained the demand and the majority report was
                                          concurred in. So the bill lies on the table.
                              
                              
                                    PUBLIC INDECENCY.
                                    The bill H. R. 72, (see page 68) was amended by striking out
                                          the words of "good character,"
                                          considered as engrossed, read the third time and passed,
                                          by--yeas 42, nays 1.
                              
                              
                                    HORSE THIEF DETECTIVES.
                                    Mr. FERRIS, in behalf of the Committee on Rights and
                                                Privileges, introduced a bill [186]
                                          relative to formation of companies for detection of horse
                                          thieves, which was read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    A call of the House was ordered, and but 73 members answered
                                          to their names.
                                    The SPEAKER laid before the House an Invitation from Col.
                                          Henry B. Carrington to be present to witness artillery
                                          practice this afternoon, at the ground north of damp
                                          Sullivan.
                                    On motion, the invitation was accepted, and the House
                                          adjourned.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, February 13, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. WOLFE, from the Committee on Elections,
                                    presented a majority report on the memorial in reference to the
                                    contested seats held by Senators Ray, Mellett, Tee-garden and
                                    Bearss. The report examined the question whether the office of
                                    Enrolling and Draft Commissioner was an office within the
                                    meaning of the Constitution of the State. The majority arrived
                                    at the conclusion that it is not, and report a resolution that
                                    Senators Ray, Mellett, Teegarden and Bearss are entitled to hold
                                    their seats as Senators on this floor.
                              Mr. LANDERS, from the same Committee, presented a minority report,
                                    reviewing the same subject at great length, and arriving at a
                                    different conclusion from the majority. The minority report the
                                    following resolution and ask its adoption.
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That any Senator who
                                                  has, since his election and qualification to said
                                                  office, accepted the office of Enrolling and
                                                  Drafting Commissioner is ineligible to a seat on
                                                  this floor.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              On motion by Mr. LANDERS both reports were laid on the table, and
                                    two hundred copies ordered printed for the use of the
                                    Senate.
                              Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Elections,
                                    reported adversely to the claim of Alexander White, the
                                    contestor of the seat of Senator Browne of Randolph, and
                                    submitted a resolution declaring that the latter was entitled to
                                    retain his seat, which was laid on the table.
                              Mr. BLAIR presented a majority report from the same Committee,
                                    adversely to the claim of Wm. H. Dills, the contestor the seat
                                    of Senator Dickinson, and declaring that the latter was entitled
                                    to retain his seat, which was also laid on the table.
                              A Committee report recommending that the bill S. 98 (see page 122)
                                    be laid on the table was concurred in.
                              
                                    PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD, from the Military Committee
                                          returned the joint resolution S. 9 (see page 117)
                                          recommending that it lay on the table, as there is a
                                          measure before the Senate proposing an increase of pay to
                                          the army.
                                    Mr. HORD opposed the tabling of the joint resolution. It was
                                          the true basis for the pay of the army. The pay of the
                                          private soldier was fixed at $13 dollars a month when gold
                                          was the standard, and now he only gets that amount in a
                                          depreciated currency. Pay him in gold. It was right and
                                          just. The representatives of the people here should guard
                                          the interests of the soldier and his family, and he was
                                          satisfied that the plan contemplated in the resolution was
                                          the true one. It was unjust to pay them $6 50 a month
                                          instead of $13.
                                    Mr. CORBIN made a similar argument in favor of the bill.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL contended that legal tender Treasury notes were
                                          received in all ordinary business transactions at par, and
                                          the supposed depreciation was an error. It was the
                                          enhanced value of gold growing out of its scarcity.
                                          "Greenbacks," as they were derisively
                                          termed, should be received by everybody as the national
                                          currency of the country, and he held that all attempts to
                                          depreciate their value and to render such money odious; in
                                          the eyes of the people were unpatriotic. In his county
                                          there were scores of wealthy men of strong prejudices
                                          against the Government, who had by studied efforts induced
                                          many honest farmers to believe that the national currency
                                          was worthless. It was wrong to thus decry what every man
                                          who had an interest in the country ought to gladly accept
                                          as the circulating medium of the country. He had favored
                                          an increase of the pay ot the soldiers, but did not
                                          believe that they cared to be paid in gold when the money
                                          they received was such as to enable them to supply
                                          themselves and their families with whatever was necessary
                                          as cheaply as with any other available money. The gold
                                          could not be had, and it would be found impracticable to
                                          make payments in Treasury notes at their specie value, as
                                          that was a matter not easily arrived at He would gladly
                                          see all bank paper driven out of circulation and the
                                          vacuum supplied with United  States Treasury notes.
                                          Then we could have & uniform national currency in
                                          which the people everywhere would have confidence.
                                    Mr SHIELDS favored the report of the committee. He could not
                                          see how it would be possible to determine the relative
                                          value of Treasury notes compared with gold, and such a
                                          policy as that proposed in the bill would load to
                                          confusion.
                                    Mr. GRAVES said that he was distinct ly in favor of the
                                          increase of the pay of the common soldier, but that
                                          increase must be fixed and definite, and must not depend
                                          upon the fluctuations of gold in Wall street. The pay
                                          should be raised but made payable in legal tender notes,
                                          now the national currency. He agreed with the Senator from
                                          Fayette (Mr. Claypool,) that gold had appreciated, and
                                          that legal tender notes had not depreciated. In proof of
                                          this fact he cited the circumstance that a few years ago,
                                          and for aught he knew it was now the case, that Spanish
                                          dollars were 10 to 14 per cent, premium over gold in the
                                          city of New York. No Senator would contend that gold had
                                          then depreciated. The truth was that the demand for
                                          exportation had appreciated the value of those specie
                                          dollars. So now with gold It alone of our currency, would
                                          pay our debts in Europe, and hence the demand. It is no
                                          longer currency, but an article of traffic. As patriots we
                                          should encourage our legal leader currency, and all
                                          payments be in those funds. He should, therefore, veto in
                                          favor of laying on the table.
                              
                              
                                    GENERAL KIMBALL.
                                    Mr. COBB offered the following which was adopted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The distinguished
                                                  patriot and soldier, Gen. Nathan Kimball, is in
                                                  the city, therefore
                                                  Resolved, That he be
                                                  invited to a seat in this Chamber, that a
                                                  committee of three be appointed by the Chair to
                                                  wait upon him and inform him of the passage of
                                                  this resolution, and that the Senate give him a
                                                  public reception, upon his introduction by the
                                                  President.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Messrs. Cobb, March, and Shields, were appointed.
                                    The committee soon after appeared, accompanied by Gen.
                                          Kimball, who was introduced to the President of the Senate
                                          by Mr. Cobb.
                                    The PRESIDENT welcomed General K. to a seat upon the floor of
                                          the Senate and said that his services on the battle field
                                          in defence of the Union and the Constitution had endeared
                                          him to the hearts of the people of Indiana, and in behalf
                                          of the Senate thanked him for the gallant bearing he had
                                          shown in nearly twenty battles and hoped his health might
                                          be preserved for many years to enjoy the blessings of
                                          peace, to requite him for the Cnclurance, exposure and
                                          danger incident to war.
                                    Gen. KIMBALL, in reply, returned his sincere thanks for the
                                          reception given him. He had done nothing to deserve it.
                                          Those who were entitled to the credit of whatever had been
                                          accomplished under his leadership were the soldiers who
                                          now sleep in soldiers' graves, and those who
                                          still lived to give up their lives, if necessary, in
                                          further defense of the country. The cause in which he and
                                          they were engaged was the cause of the restoration of the
                                          Union and the sustenance of the Constitution on made by
                                          our fathers, and be and the brave soldiers of our armies
                                          were still anxious to render further services, and to give
                                          up their lives, if need be, in behalf of this most sacred
                                          cause. He had ever endeavored to keep the fair fame of
                                          Indiana soldiers from being sullied, and he trusted that
                                          he might be able to carry back to such of
                                          Indiana's brave volunteers as belonged to this
                                          division of the army the assurance that the Senate of
                                          their beloved State was still willing to render them all
                                          the aid that was necessary to encure a vigorous
                                          prosecution of the war in which they had staked their
                                          honor and their lives until the Union could be restored
                                          again and the Constitution of our country recognized
                                          throughout the whole extent of our once united and happy
                                          land.
                                    At the conclusion of these remarks Gen K. was loudly
                                          applauded by the Senate and lobbies, and invited to a seat
                                          on the right of the President's chair.
                              
                              
                                    FREEDOM OF THE PRESS.
                                    Mr. WOLFE called up the special order his bill [79] to
                                          protect the liberty of the press.
                                    The question being on the amendment (Mr. March's) to
                                          the committee amendment--see page 128 of these
                                          Reports.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. The design of the bill was to strike a blow at
                                          mobocracy in this country. There was nothing that was
                                          working a greater evil than this spirit of lawless
                                          violence. It was this spirit unchecked, in his opinion,
                                          that had brought the country to its present deplorable
                                          condition. He proposed to check the spirit by stringent
                                          legal enactments. The people must be taught to respect the
                                          law. They must not be permitted to take vengeance into
                                          their own hands for real or fancied wrongs.-- Loyalty
                                          meant obedience to the laws.--Acts such as are
                                          contemplated by the second section of the law could not be
                                          perpetrated where a wholesome public sentiment existed,
                                          and the section was framed to correct that sentiment
                                          wherever it was depraved. He characterized mob violence as
                                          worse than theft in its effects, and equal in moral
                                          turpitude. He said that we must legislate for the
                                          condition of tilings that surround us, and not as we would
                                          wish them. Newspapers were regarded in the several
                                          counties as their party organs, and to some extent the
                                          property of the parties whose principles they advocated.
                                          The destruction of one of these papers was felt.  as a blow at the
                                          party. and could not fail to arouse a spirit of revenge
                                          that would seek for redress. It was the duty of the
                                          Legislature to seek to prevent the state of things
                                          pictured by him. He saw from the papers that the Rockport
                                          Democrat, a few days ago, had been destroyed by a few
                                          soldiers, backed up by bad and disorderly citizens, and
                                          since the commission of the lawless act it had been
                                          necessary to keep soldiers in that county to prevent
                                          outbreaks. Pass this law and you would prevent such acts
                                          in the future. He replied eloquently in the argument that
                                          public sentiment in the absence of law, would hold a
                                          wholesome restraint over the press. An independent and
                                          unfettered press was the bulwark of our liberties, and he
                                          would preserve it pure and unsullied and unpurchased by
                                          power.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. CORBIN introduced a bill [119] repealing an act approved
                                          March 5, 1861, authorizing the Governor to obtain
                                          posession of all public arms and military equipments, to
                                          institute proceedings to recover the same, and providing
                                          for the distribution of the same, which was read the first
                                          time.
                                    A committee report was concurred in recommending that the
                                          bill [S. 59] for the relief of John B. Redd, be laid on
                                          the table.
                                    Mr. CORBIN offered a resolution which was adopted, requesting
                                          the Governor to inform the Senate what amount of arms he
                                          has distributed, where sent and for what purpose they were
                                          distributed.
                                    The bill S. 38 (see page 80) was read the third time and
                                          finally passed by yes 33, nays 10.
                                    
                                          ARMING OF NEGROES.
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB his joint resolution [10]
                                                protesting against the enlisting and arming of
                                                negroes, was taken up.
                                          Mr. REED moved to amend by striking out all after the
                                                first specification of the preamble and inserting
                                                the following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  AND WHEREAS, Great prejudice exists in the public
                                                  mind against the negro race, it being regarded as
                                                  inferior to the Anglo Saxon, and unfit to
                                                  associate on terms of equality with the white
                                                  citizen, and its employment in the military
                                                  service of the country, as degrading to the white
                                                  soldier, therefore,
                                                  Be it resolved by the Senate and
                                                  House of Representatives of the State of
                                                  Indiana, That our Senators in Congress be
                                                  instructed and Representatives requested to use
                                                  their influence to shape the provisions of the
                                                  bill now pending before Congress for arming the
                                                  negroes as aforesaid so as to secure the following
                                                  ends:
                                                  
                                                  That such negro troops, so far as
                                                  compatible with the good of the service, and the
                                                  efficiency of the army be employed in separate
                                                  departments in the military and naval service of
                                                  the country, and not in immediate contact with
                                                  white troops.
                                                  That in officering such negro troops
                                                  no rank higher than that of Captain be conferred
                                                  upon persons of African descent, nor shall such
                                                  person in any instance be placed in command over
                                                  white officers or soldiers.
                                                  
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. REED said that it was an undeniable fact that the
                                                blacks of the South would come within the lines of
                                                the Federal army for protection and it was proper
                                                that they should be put at some useful work. There
                                                were places in unhealthy regions where they could do
                                                military duty without being required to associate
                                                with white soldiers. He admitted the existence of
                                                the prejudice in the army and among citizens against
                                                the black race, and desired that negroes who might
                                                be armed should be placed where they would not come
                                                in contact with white soldiers.
                                          Mr. WOLFE demanded the previous question, which was
                                                seconded by a vote of yeas 26, nays 20.
                                          Mr. Reed's amendment was rejected--yeas 20,
                                                nays 25.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                               HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1863.
                              
                              Petitions were presented and appropriately referred, to-wit:
                              By Mr. Baker, from citizens of Noble county, for allowing soldiers
                                    in the army to vote.
                              By Mr. Garvin, from citizens of Vanderburg, for modification of
                                    liquor license law.
                              By Mr. HALL, from 667 citizens of Decatur county, asking for
                                    enforcement of the 13th Article of the Constitution.
                              Senate bill 93 (see page 121) was read the second time and
                                    referred.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first and
                                          second times, under suspension of the rules:
                                    Mr. DONALDSON, on behalf of the Select Committee thereon
                                          [187] apportioning the State for Senators and
                                          Representatives for next six years. (300 copies ordered
                                          printed for the use of the House.)
                                    Mr. GIVEN [188] to amend section 2 of act providing a
                                          Treasury system for the State of Indiana--authorizing the
                                          receipt of United States Treasury notes for taxes. 
                              
                              
                                    GENERAL KIMBALL.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK saying that a distinguished gentleman was now in
                                          the hall, on who had participated in many of the battles
                                          of the was--a General of the Army of the Potomache thought
                                          it due to the patriot and soldier that the representatives
                                          of the people of Indiana should show him all respect and
                                          courtesy. He therefore moved that he be invited within the
                                          bar and presented by the Speaker to members
                                          individually.
                                    The motion was agreed to.
                                    The SPEAKER then announced General Kimball, who was received
                                          with universal applause, members rising to their feet.
                                    Gen. KIMBALL responded briefly, feelingly, and modestly in
                                          recognition of the 
                                          honor conferred upon him, and through him, but a humble
                                          representative, upon the brave soldiers of Indiana in the
                                          field. Those gallant men, when he returned, he would be
                                          proud to tell of the high esteem in which the
                                          representatives of the people--their people at home--held
                                          them.
                                    Gen. Kimball was then presented by the Speaker to each member
                                          in the hall.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    The following described House bills were read the third time
                                          and finally passed, unless otherwise stated:
                                    Mr. Forresters, [17] relative to sales of real estate by
                                          foreign trustees andexecutors--yeas 76, nays 7.
                                    Mr. Anderson's, [23] to fix the succession of title
                                          in real estate held by Agricultural Societies--yeas 82,
                                          nays, 0.
                                    Mr. McGauchey's, [78] to enable owners of wet lands
                                          to drain and reclaim them without effecting the lands of
                                          other parties--yeas 58, nays 23.
                                     Mr. Brown's, (81) amending sec. 1 of act organizing
                                          the Supreme Court, providing for election of gve Judges in
                                          1864. Rejected by yeas 29, nays 55.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. Newman's, [87] defining and punishing
                                          assault--yeas 73, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Gregory's, [97] repealing act establishing
                                          courts of conciliation--yeas 61, nays 18.
                                    Mr. Niblack's. [139] raising revenue for 1863-4. It
                                          levies 25 cents on the one hundred dollars taxable
                                          property--yeas 85, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Lake's, [107] for the relief of Minerva Berry,
                                          of Madison county, out of fund of said county, for losses
                                          on purchases of seed corn for farmers of said county--yeas
                                          68, nays 15.
                                    Mr. Miller's, [114] requiring Recorders to certify
                                          to record of all legal transactions--yeas 79, nays 2.
                                    Mr. Packard's, [117] to transfer the Congressional
                                          School Fund accruing to Jasper county, from lands in
                                          Newton county, to Newton county--yeas 71, nays 3.
                                    Mr. Shaffer's, [119] to amend the 21st section of an
                                          act regulating the time of holding Common Pleas Courts in
                                          this State. It simpiy increases the time of holding the
                                          Common Pleas Court in Fulton county--yeas 75, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Miller's. [128] Entitling Recorders to their
                                          fees in advance--yeas 73, nays 3.
                                    Mr. Waterman's [129] an act to prohibit public
                                          officers from receiving their salaries in advance--yeas
                                          68, nays 4.
                                    Mr. Howk's, [133] to amend the 20th section of the
                                          practice act, increasing the power of Justices of the
                                          Peace--yeas 69, nays 2.
                                    Mr. Byerle's, [145] to relieve Geo, Arnold--yeas 70,
                                          nays 3.
                                    On motion by Mr. NEWMAN it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That when we
                                                  adjourn it be till 2 p.m. Monday.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. NIBLACK, in speaking of what had been done at this
                                          session, said it was charged that the business of the
                                          House was not advanced. It was more advanced than at any
                                          session he had known. The Committee an Ways and
                                                Means, in maturing of their duties, were
                                          in advance of their predecessors.
                                    
                                           JUSTICES' DOCKET.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK offered a resolution that the
                                                  Committee on Judiciary inquire
                                                as to the propriety of furnishing Justices'
                                                dockets at the cost of the county.
                                          The resolution was adopted.
                                    
                                    
                                          COMMITTEE ON JUDICIAL
                                                  CIRCUITS.
                                          The SPEAKER, announced in pursuance of a resolution,
                                                the following:
                                          Messrs. Howk, Lamb, Given, Perry, Woollen, Humphreys,
                                                Lake, Cason, Packard, Griffith, Lassele, Mustard,
                                                Moorman, and Garvin.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, February 14. 1863.
                              
                              The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                    severally passed to the second reading:
                              By Mr. BROWN, of Wells, [120] a bill to amend the 738th section of
                                    the practice act.
                              By Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. [122] to amend the 1st section of an
                                    act for the relief of the borrowers of the Sinking'
                                    Fund, and to repeal the 4th section and so much as applies to
                                    tin Sinking Fund of the whole act entitled an act to extend to
                                    borrowers of the Sinking Fund, Surplus Revenue Fund,
                                    Congressional School Fund and other funds, time of payment of
                                    loans, and prescribing duties of officers in regard thereto.
                               By Mr. DOWNEY, from Committee on Rights and
                                          Privileges, [123] to amend the 55th section of
                                    an act to revise, simplify and abridge the rules, practices, and
                                    pleadings and forms in civil cases in the Courts in this State,
                                    approved June 18, 1852.
                              By Mr. JOHNSTON. [124] to amend section 1st and 4th of an act to
                                    provide for locating and working highways situated upon county
                                    lines, approved March 3, 1859.
                              By Mr. WHITE, [125] to amend the 5th section of an act to amend an
                                    act entitled an act for incorporating the Manual Labor  College and
                                    Teachers' Seminary, approved January 15, 1834--approved
                                    February 8, 1851.
                              By Mr. BLAIR, [126] to amend the 5th section of an act regulating
                                    the adoption of heirs.
                              By Mr. NEW, [127] supplemental to an act entitled an act to provide
                                    for a general system of Common Schools, so as to allow the
                                    German language to be taught in schools in towns and cities.
                              By Mr. RAY. [128] concerning the redemption of real estate sold on
                                    behalf of the Sinking Fund, the College Fund, the Saline Fund,
                                    the Surplus Revenue Fund, and the Bank Tax Fund.
                              By Mr. BROWN, of Wells, [129] relating to the trial of offences
                                    committed against joint stock companies and associations.
                              By Mr. BROWN, of Wells, [130] in relation to suits and proceedings
                                    by and against joint stock companies.
                              By Mr. MARCH, [131] to amend the 99th section of the Practice Act,
                                    approved June 18, 1852.
                              By Mr. RAY, [132] a bill for the organization of the Circuit Courts
                                    of the State of Indiana, providing for the election and
                                    compensation of Judges, Prosecuting Attorneys, and jurisdiction
                                    of the said courts, and for repealing an act entitled an act to
                                    establish Courts of Common Pleas, and defining the jurisdiction
                                    and duties of and providing compensation for the Judges thereof,
                                    approved May 14, 1852, and all acts amendatory thereof.
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, offered a resolution that the Senate
                                    hereafter meet at 8 a. m., and 1 1/2 p. m., and hold night
                                    sessions.
                               Being an amendment to the rules it was laid over till a subsequent
                                    day.
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    Senate bills 104 and 105, (see page 127;) and House bills 20,
                                          (p. 46;) 44, (p. 54;) 66 and 69, (p. 68;) were read the
                                          second time and appropriately referred.
                                    House bills 54. (p. 57;) and 95, (p. 88;) were ordered
                                          engrossed.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Senate bills 106, (p. 127;) 107, 109, (p. 128;) 110, (p.
                                          129;) 112 to 118 inclusive, (p. 146;) 119, (introduced
                                          yesterday;) and joint resolutions 11, (p. 135;) and 12,
                                          (146;) were read the second time and appropriately
                                          referred.
                                    House bills 17 and 23 (p. 46;) 48, (p. 57;) 57, 58. (p. 57;)
                                          62, (p. 68;) 78, 82, 83. (p. 82;) 87, (p. 85;) 97, (p.
                                          94;) 107, 110, 114, (p. 109;) 117, 119, (p. 110;) 128,
                                          129, 133, (p. 112;) 139, (p. 119;) and 145, (p. 121;) were
                                          read the first time.
                                    Mr. RAY presented the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  MR. PRESIDENT :
                                                  
                                                  During the present session of the Senate, the
                                                  undersigned has witnessed, with regret, the action
                                                  of the Senate in granting leave of absence to
                                                  members to leave the Capital, and their eats in
                                                  this Hall, to return to their homes to attend to
                                                  their private business, leaving the Senate for
                                                  many days without a quorum to do legislative
                                                  business.
                                                  He has likewise witnessed with regret the
                                                  repeated adjournments, extending from Saturday
                                                  forenoon to Monday afternoon. He has also
                                                  witnessed with regret the liberty that members of
                                                  this body take in absenting themselves from their
                                                  seats for days without leave of the Senate--all of
                                                  which has been done contrary to his conviction of
                                                  public duty and against his opposition expressed
                                                  by votes and otherwise.
                                                  And inasmuch as the session is more than half
                                                  expired without adequate fruits of legislative
                                                  industry; and inasmuch as the Democratic party
                                                  will be held measurably responsible for the
                                                  aforesaid grievances; and inasmuch as the Senate
                                                  on this day has granted leave of absence for
                                                  several days to the Senators from Miami, from
                                                  Clinton and from Bartholomew, against the vote of
                                                  the undersigned; therefore he protested, and does
                                                  now protest, against all and several the above
                                                  enumerated grievances, against any repetition or
                                                  continuance of the same, as impeding legislation
                                                  by an abandonment of public duty, as injustice to
                                                  those that remain, by throwing upon them the
                                                  responsibilities of all legislation,as a reproach
                                                  to the Democracy, by leaving them to vindicate in
                                                  the future a line o policy which no one can
                                                  approve or defend in the present.
                                                  He asks this protest to be spread on the
                                                  journal of the Senate.
                                                  
                                                  M. M. RAY,
                                                  The protest was also signed by
                                                  PARIS C. DUNNING, S. K.
                                                  WOLFE, A. J. DOUGLASS,
                                                  P. HOAGLAND.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    MONDAY, February 16, 1863.
                              
                              Committee reports recommending that Senate bills 29, (see page 50;)
                                    and 70, (p. 100;) be laid on the the table, were concurred
                                    in.
                              Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution,which was adopted, that the
                                          Committee on Benevolent Institutions
                                    inquire as to the expediency of so amending the law as that
                                    insane persons may be received from the prisons in the State
                                    into the State Asylum.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. GRAVES, by direction of a select committee, and in
                                          lieu of the bill S. 104see page 127which was laid on the
                                          table, [133] fixing and determining the amount of the
                                          equivalent to be paid by persons conscientiously opposed
                                          to bearing arms in pursuance of the requirements of the
                                          Constitution, declaring when the same shall be due and
                                          payable; directing the making of rules and regulations for
                                          the collection thereof, and the manner in which suit
                                          therefor shall be brought and judgment recovered; and also
                                          declaring when this act shall take effect.
                                    By Mr. MURRAY, [134] supplemental to an act to regulate and
                                          license the sale of spiritous, vinous, malt and other
                                          intoxicating liquors, approved March 5, 1859.
                                    By Mr. WILLIAMS, [135] to amend the first and third sections
                                          of "An act for the encouragement of
                                          agriculture," approved February 17, 1852.

                                    

                                    By Mr. RAY. [136] to divide the State Into eleven
                                          Congressional Districts, and to repeal "An act to
                                          divide the State into Congressional Districts,"
                                          approved February 9, 1852.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    Senate bills numbered 120 to 132 inclusive--introduced
                                          yesterday were read the second time and appropriately
                                          referred.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    House bills 17, 23, (see page 46;) 48, 57, 58, (p. 57;) 62.
                                          (p. 68;) 78, 82, 85, (p. 82;) 87, (p. 85.) 97, (p. 94;)
                                          107, 110, 114, (p. 109;) 117, 119, (p. 110) ) 128, 129,
                                          133, (p. 112;) and 145 (p. 121;) were read the second time
                                          and appropriately referred; except 114 and 119, which were
                                          ordered engrossed: and 129, which was laid on the
                                          table.
                                    A call of the Senate revealed the fact that but thirty two
                                          Senators were present, when, for want of a quorum--the
                                                State Prison Committee being
                                          absent, by leave--the Senate adjourned.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    MONDAY, February 16, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. ROBERTS offered a resolution that the House hereafter meet at 8
                                    1/2 o'clock a.m.and 1 1/2 p.m., and hold night sessions
                                    on Wednesdays and Fridays, which was laid over under the
                                    rules.
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OP INQUIRY.
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees were offered, read and
                                          severally adopted. to-wit:
                                    By Mr. KILGORE, relative to the amendment or repeal of the
                                          law licensing the retailing of spiritous liquors.
                                    By Mr. HARDIN, of Perry, relative to amendments of the Common
                                          School law in reference to the employment of teachers by
                                          township trustees.
                                    By Mr. WOODRUFF, relative to legislation to prevent, the sale
                                          of lottery tickets.
                                    By Mr. JONES, into the propriety of an appropriation by the
                                          State for the production of flax-cotton.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. HOWK. [189] to relieve Sam. H. Patterson.
                                    By Mr MASON, [190] to amend section 45 of the common school
                                          act--in reference to school examiners.
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK. [191] fixing the time of holding Common Pleas
                                          Courts in the 2d district.
                                    By Mr. MILROY. [192] to amend section 42u of the practice
                                          act.
                                    By Mr HOWK, [193] in reference to the distribution of the
                                          16th volume of the Reports.
                                    By Mr. FERRIS, [194] defining felonies and prescribing their
                                          punishment-- for protection of the right of suffrage.
                                    By Mr. GRIFFITH, [195] to better regulate the appointment of
                                          volunteer Surgeons--confining their appointment to the
                                          "regular" profession.
                                    By Mr LAMB, [196] to tax dogs and protect sheep.
                                    By Mr. HUMPHREYS. [197] to amend section 101 of the common
                                          school act.
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN. [198] to prevent persons from harboring or
                                          keeping unlicensed dogs.
                                    By Mr. TARKlNGTON. [199] concerning the sale of baggage,
                                          etc., by railroad companies.
                                    By Mr. BYERLE. [200] to amend section 3 of the act regulating
                                          general elections.
                                    By Mr. FERRIS. [201] to amend section 52 of the common school
                                          act.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE. [202] to provide for change of venue in
                                          certain cases from the Common Pleas to Circuit Courts.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE, [203] to amend section 23 of the common
                                          school act.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE, [201] to amend section 52 of the practice
                                          net.
                                    By Mr. NIBLAOK. [20o] to fix the time of holding Circuit
                                          Court [A the third Circuit.
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK. [206] to amend sections 5 and 6 of the
                                          license law-- allowing license for a less period than one
                                          year. &c.
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK [207] to empower foreign insurance compares to
                                          transact business in the State by agents, and regulating
                                          the same.
                                    The Senate resolution in reference to the distribution of
                                          Owen's Geological Reports was concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                     House bills 151, (see page 128;) 153 to 168 inclusive, (p.
                                          135;) were read the second time (see page 28) was ordered
                                          engrossed and H.R.152, (p. 133) was laid on the table, and
                                          300 copies ordered printed for the use of the House.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, February 17, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. WILSON presented a petition from citizens of Vigo county,
                                    praying for laws to enforce the 13th article of the
                                    Constitution.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Were made and concurred in as follows:
                                    Recommending that the bill S 106. (see page 127:) lay on the
                                          table, and 200 copies be printed for the use of the
                                          Senate.
                                    Recommending that the bill. [S. 49] providing that the school
                                          tax levied oil corporations should go to the principal of
                                          said fund, and not be distributed as school revenue, be
                                          laid on the table.

                                    


                                    Messrs. BRADLEY and RAY spoke in favor of the bill and
                                          against the recommendation of the committee, and Mr. WOLFE
                                          defended the report.
                                    Recommending that the bill S. 100--p. 122--be laid on the
                                          table.
                              
                              
                                    PROPERTY EXEMPTION.
                                    The Judiciary Committee recommended that
                                          the bill, [S 36] proposing to increase the amount exempt
                                          from execution from $300 to $500 be indefinitely
                                          postponed.
                                    The report was defended by Messrs. LANDERS, WOLFE. GRAVES,
                                          SHIELDS and RAY, and the indefinite postponement was
                                          opposed by Messrs. MARCH, JOHNSTON and MURRAY.
                                    The report of the committee was not concurred in--yeas 20,
                                          nays 20.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON moved to recommit with instructions to amend by
                                          adding the following section:
                                    SECTION --. Provided, however that where there is any doubt
                                          as to the amount of property in value owned by each, the
                                          plaintiff and defendant, it shall be the duty of the
                                          Sheriff or constable to make out an inventory and
                                          valuation of the property of both, the plaintiff and
                                          defendant, and if it shall appear upon such inventory and
                                          valuation that the defendant; is the owner of more
                                          property in value than the plaintiff, then no exemption
                                          shall be allowed.
                                    On motion by Mr. MARCH, the amendment was laid on the
                                          table--yeas 24, nays 17--and the bill was recommitted to
                                          the Judiciary Committee, without
                                          instructions.
                              
                              
                                    REPRESENTATIVE APPORTIONMENT.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS called up bill [S. 111.] to apportion the State
                                          for Representative purposes, it being the special order
                                          for this day.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved to amend, so as to give Jay
                                          one Representative, and to add Blackford to Wells for
                                          representative purposes.
                                    On motion of Mr. WOLFE, the further consideration of the bill
                                          was postponed till Thursday.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    A committee report recommending that the bill S. 91--see page
                                          127--be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                                    On motion by Mr. MARCH, the bill S. 129 was taken from the
                                          table and referred to the Committee on
                                                Finance.
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. DOUGLASS, [137] giving County Surveyors the
                                                power to administer oaths to viewers of roads;
                                                providing that when a Surveyor is one of the viewers
                                                he shall not be required to take an additional
                                                oath.
                                          By Mr. DAVIS, of Cass, [138] to amend the title of an
                                                act providing for the increasing of the capital
                                                stock and he Directors of Railroad Companies,
                                                approved June 17, 1852.
                                          By Mr. CULVER. [139] to repeal the 119th section of the
                                                valuation and assessment act, approved June 21.
                                                1852.
                                          By Mr. RAY 140, to enforce the 13th article of the
                                                Constitution of the State.
                                          By Mr. LANDERS. 141 to amend sections 57, 59, and 60 of
                                                "An act defining misdemeanors, and
                                                prescribing punishment therefor." approved
                                                June, 1852."
                                          By Mr. DOUGLASS, [142] authorizing County Commissioners
                                                to fill vacancy in the office of School
                                                Examiner.
                                          By Mr. LANDERS, 143 to prevent and punish illegal
                                                arrests, and fixing penalties.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          Senate bills 133 to 136 inclusive,--introduced
                                                yesterday--and joint resolution 9--see page
                                                117--were read the second time and appropriately
                                                referred.
                                    
                                    
                                          RAILROAD MANAGEMENT.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph's bill, (S. 12) to
                                                compel railroad companies to keep a sufficient
                                                number of cars to accomodate the business on their
                                                lines, was read the third time.
                                          Mr. MANSFIELD protested earnestly against the passage
                                                of the bill. He contended that it would bankrupt any
                                                company in the State to comply with the law, and
                                                would be manifestly unjust. There were times and
                                                seasons when any business would be overrun. As well
                                                compel hotels to have accommodation at all times for
                                                all the custom that a largo gathering would throw
                                                upon them as to compel a railroad to carry off the
                                                product of an abundant harvest at one time.
                                          Mr. SHIELDS was opposed to this war on railroads, and
                                                he argued to show that the business was not a
                                                profitable one. An immense amount of capital was
                                                invested in them, and so far from its being a paying
                                                investment, it was considered dead capital.
                                          Mr. CORBIN moved to recommit the bill to the
                                                  Judiciary Committee, with
                                                instructions.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, had no desire to urge a war
                                                against railroads. The people had invested largely
                                                in them, and they had done much for the country. The
                                                bill did not contemplate reduction in the prices,
                                                but he did desire to correct the discrimination
                                                against the local business of the country. How is it
                                                that passengers and freight are carried from one end
                                                to the other of a line cheaper than way passengers
                                                are carried?
                                          Mr. SHIELDS. It is because of the competition of
                                                competing roads.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, knew that and he thought the
                                                Legislature had the power to correct these wrongs.
                                                He illustrated the working of this discrimination
                                                against the way freight and travel, and contended
                                                that it was unjust and unfair to; the great mass of
                                                the people, who did not  live at the termini of
                                                the roads. The great object of the bill was to
                                                prevent the roads from giving all their means of
                                                transportation to the ends of the lines, where there
                                                was competition, to the exclusion of the way
                                                stations. Whoever heard of shippers here being
                                                obliged to wait for cars? But the way stations on
                                                all the roads are frequently crowded for weeks and
                                                months. It was unfair, unjust, and cried aloud for
                                                redress. The second proposition in the bill was to
                                                make the way and through freights uniform. This was
                                                also just, and should be the rule, to prevent the
                                                building up of monopolies at the ends of the roads
                                                by robbing the farmers along the lines. The bill
                                                simply proposes to make the rates uniform.
                                          Mr. SHIELDS contended that the true rule for the
                                                Legislature would be to let the railroads regulate
                                                their own business, and they would do it with far
                                                more advantage to the people (who were their
                                                customers) than Senators could do.
                                          Mr. MURRAY would like the Senator from Randolph to tell
                                                him how this State could regulate by law the fares
                                                on roads which had their termini in other Stakes.
                                                The roads in his section ran north and east their
                                                markets were at Chicago and New York.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, did not know that we could
                                                regulate the roads outside of the State, but within
                                                the State we could, and thus set a good example to
                                                other States.
                                          Mr. CORBIN explained the effect of the amendment he
                                                proposed to the bill, and made an able argument. He
                                                earnestly advocated some restraints upon the
                                                railroad corporations of the country. The people had
                                                been ground down since the troubles commenced, and
                                                if it was in the power of the Legislature relief
                                                should be afforded.
                                          Mr. MARCH said there was great complaint and
                                                dissatisfaction among the people. The Legislature
                                                should act promptly or tell the people that they
                                                could not act. The railroads were built mainly by
                                                the people along the lines, and the stocks were now
                                                held by capitalists who had bought them up at a mere
                                                song. They had postponed the local freight, and
                                                given all advantages to through freight, and it had
                                                caused, great discontent among the people. We must
                                                do something to quiet this feeling, or it might
                                                culminate in an outbreak.
                                          Mr. RAY said that there were two classes of railroads
                                                in the State. Some were built under special charters
                                                and some under the general law. If the Legislature
                                                has not reserved the power to regulate under the
                                                charters, the right belongs to the corporations. The
                                                general law did reserve the right, and railroads
                                                built under this were under the control of the
                                                Legislature, as to their tolls, &c., but
                                                those built under special charters were free from
                                                control. He conceded the right as to those
                                                organized--under the general law, but denied the
                                                right of the Legislature to say to those roads
                                                acting under special charters that they should carry
                                                at specified rates, or should keep a sufficient
                                                amount of stock on hand to meet extraordinary
                                                emergencies.
                                          Mr. GRAVES did not fee like voting for the bill as it
                                                now stands, and yet he was anxious to have some
                                                legal regulation of the matters contained in it.
                                          Mr. SHIELDS moved to Indefinitely postpone the bill and
                                                amendment.
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB, the motion was laid on the table
                                                by yeas 30, nays 13.
                                          The bill and amendments were then referred to the
                                                  Judiciary Committee.
                                    
                                    
                                          MEMORIAL FROM THE ARMY.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, presented a memorial from the
                                                officers and soldiers of the 34th Indiana regiment,
                                                which was ordered printed with the papers sent from
                                                the army of the Cumberland.
                                          The bill [H. R. 109)] for the relief of borrowers from
                                                the Sinking Fund, was read the first time.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, February 17, 1863.
                              
                              The reading of the Clerk's journal of yesterday's
                                    proceedings was dispensed with.
                              Mr. HANNA, on presenting a petition, from citizens of Indiana,
                                    praying that the German language be taught in common schools,
                                    said: Mr. Speaker, I hold in my hand a petition, signed by six
                                    hundred German citizens of Lawrenceburg, Aurora, Terre Haute and
                                    other important points throughout the State, asking that this
                                    Assembly shall endeavor to fix upon some plan by which they may
                                    enjoy their distributive share of the public school fund of the
                                    State. It is well known, sir, that above one-fourth of the
                                    population of Indiana is of German extraction. It is not
                                    surprising then that this class of our fellow citizens should
                                    feel particular anxiety on this question--that they should
                                    exhibit an extraordinary pride in the enjoyment of the educating
                                    funds of the State. All will agree that they are a frugal,
                                    earnest and intelligent people, obedient to law and ambitious
                                    for the perpetuity of our free institutions. That they should be
                                    anxious to teach their mother tongue to their children, is only
                                    a question of legal expediency--not a proper subject for party
                                    criticism. Schiller and Goethe have fired their hearts with the
                                    beauty and splendor of their vernacular. I will second all their
                                    endeavors to infuse the enthusiasm which these and other great
                                    masters of the German tongue have excited into the young hearts
                                    of the vast German population on this continent. I will do all I
                                    can in this direction consistently with my obligation as a
                                    member of this legislative body. I  believe this petition may be met
                                    successfully, but that the whole question may be carefully
                                    canvassed and fully presented, move to refer the petition to the
                                          Committee on Education. The petition
                                    was so referred.
                              
                                    REPORTS PROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Recommending that Senate bills 19 (see page 60;) 33, (p. 80;)
                                          and House bills 99. 101, (p. 94;) 122, (p. 110;) 131, (p.
                                          112;) and 170, (p. 135;) be laid on the table, were
                                          severally concurred in.
                                    The Judiciary Committee reported back a
                                          resolution in reference to the marriage of a female ward
                                          under age, with a statement that such marriage does
                                          discharge the guardian from responsibility for the
                                          property of the female ward.
                                    On motion by Mr. VAN BUSKIRK the majority and minority
                                          reports on the bill H. R. 118--see page 110--were taken
                                          from the table and re-committed to the appropriate
                                          committee.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    The following described bills were read the third time and
                                          finally passed:
                                    Mr. Waterman's. (H. R. 27) providing for special
                                          sessions of Boards of County Commissioners, by yeas 83,
                                          nays 2.
                                    Mr. Hoagland's, (S. 93) extending the time of
                                          completion of railroads upon which $2,000 per mile have
                                          been expended, by yeas 84, nays 1.
                                    Mr. March's, (S. 16) in reference to the settlement
                                          of decedents' estates, by yeas 83, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Roberts' resolution--introduced yesterday--to
                                          meet earlier, and hold night sessions, was adopted, after
                                          amending it so that sessions commence at 9 a. m. and 1 1/2
                                          p. m., and night sessions on Monday and Thursday evenings
                                          at 71/2 p. m.
                                    Mr.ROBERTS offered a resolution,which was adopted, directing
                                          the doorkeeper to procure a national flag, and place it on
                                          the dome of the Capitol on the 23d of February, and that
                                          Col. Garrington give a salute of 100 guns on that
                                          occasion.
                              
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY.
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees,were offered, read, and
                                          severally adopted:
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN, as to steps to promote the cultivation of
                                          Chinese sugar cane.
                                    By Mr. GREGORY, instructing the Sinking Fund Commissioners to
                                          distribute to the several counties their pro rata share of
                                          such funds.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK. (208) limiting action on forfeited
                                          recognizances to two years.
                                    By Mr. MILLER,(209 ) an act entitling Attorneys to liens on
                                          judgments for fees.
                                    By Mr. KENDRICK, (2 10) amending the a school law, providing
                                          for teaching the German language.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    By Mr. HOWK. (211) ceding to the United States of America
                                          certain lands in Floyd county as a burying ground for
                                          soldiers.
                                    By Mr. SPENCER, (212) authorizing School Trustees to borrow
                                          money for the purpose of erecting school houses.
                                    By Mr. BLOCHER, (213) amending section 45 of the road law so
                                          as to make a public highway after six years'
                                          use.
                                    Mr. NEWMAN,(214) amending section 3 of the law licensing the
                                          sale of spirituous liquors.
                                    By Mr. HALL, (215) establishing an Agricultural College and
                                          appropriating for its endowment.
                                    By Mr. RIPPEY. (210) amending the 129th section of the
                                          practice act.
                                    By Mr. WOODRUFF, (217) repealing section 57 of the act
                                          defining felonies.
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, (218) providing for distribution of surplus
                                          revenue fund to the several counties.
                                    By Mr. GREGORY, (219) to protect farmers from the unlawful
                                          conduct of sportsmen and hunters of wild game.
                                    By Mr. COOK. (220) to enforce the 13th article of the
                                          Constitution, offering negroes and mulattoes who come into
                                          the State and refuse to leave, or returning after being
                                          taken out, for sale first for three months, and for every
                                          offence thereafter for twelve months.
                                    By Mr. HANNA, (22h an act providing for the organization of
                                          the Indiana militia, for a military tax, and for other
                                          matters properly connected with the militia of the
                                          State.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE, (222) to punish Sheriffs and other civil
                                          officers failing to turn over documents to their
                                          successors.
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, (223) providing for courts when Judges fail
                                          to attend.
                                    By Mr. LASSELLE, (224) amending section 52 of the act
                                          amending the act authorizing the business of general
                                          banking.
                                    By Mr. HOWK, [225] providing for the reduction of the par
                                          value of stock of incorporated companies in certain
                                          cases.
                                    Mr. Miller's bill, [H. R. 109] relating to the
                                          relief of borrowers of the Sinking Fund, was read the
                                          third time and passed by yeas 87, nays 1.
                                    Mr. PRIEST offered a resolution, appointing a committee of
                                          five to make arrangements for raising the national flag
                                          over the dome of the Capitol on the 23d inst., which was
                                          adopted, and Messrs. Priest, Tarkington, Van Buskirk,
                                          Roberts, and Packard appointed in pursuance thereof.
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          House bills 169 to 190 inclusive--see pages 135 and
                                                141--were read the second time and appropriately
                                                referred, except 170, 180, and 129, which were
                                                ordered engrossed.
                                    
                              
                        

                        

                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 18, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. WILSON introduced a bill [144] to regulate Sheriff's
                                    fees in certain cases of sale on execution; which was read the
                                    first time.
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    The following described Senate bills were read the third time
                                          and finally passed, unless otherwise stated:
                                    Mr. Browne of Randolph's [13] requiring railroad
                                          companies in this State to have three fourths of their
                                          Directory elected from resident stockholders; by yeas 42,
                                          nays 3.
                                    Mr. Downey's. [37] to amend the
                                          Supervisor's act. (The bill gives power to the
                                          County Commissioners to collect the road tax in money in
                                          any township under certain restrictions;) by yeas 27, nays
                                          18.
                                    Mr. Douglass', [40] to amend section 1 of the common
                                          school law. The bill defines negroes and mulattoes, as
                                          used in law, to consist of one eighth or more of negro
                                          blood; by yeas 34, nays 12.
                                    Judiciary Committee's [42]
                                          defining bastardy, and prescribing penalties therefor; by
                                          years 36, nays 6.
                                    Mr. Beeson's. [45] to amend section 2 of the act in
                                          relation to County Auditors; by years 42, nays 1.
                                    Mr. Culver's [57] to allow County Commissioners to
                                          organize turnpike companies in certain cases. Failed for
                                          want of consitutional majority yeas 24, nays 17.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Senate bills 137 to 143 inclusive (introduced yesterday) and
                                          the bill H. R. 109 were read the second time and
                                          appropriately referred.
                                    A committee report was concurred in recommending that the
                                          bill S, 27 (see page 79;) be laid on the table.
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                          The following describe Senate bills were read the third
                                                time and finally passed, unless otherwise
                                                stated:
                                          Mr. Dickinson's, (58) to legalize
                                                appropriation by county Boards for support of the
                                                families of volunteers; by yeas 41, nays 2.
                                          Mr. March's (59) prescribing fees to be
                                                charged by the Secretary and Auditor of State in
                                                certain cases; by yeas 43, nays 0.
                                          Mr. Corbin's (65) to amend section 322 of the
                                                practice act. Rejected by yeas 13, nays 26.
                                          Mr. Downey's (74) to fix the time of holding
                                                the Common Pleas Courts in the Fifth District; by
                                                yeas 37, nays 4.
                                          Mr. Bradley's (112) to amend the 7th section
                                                of an act providing a Reporter for the Supreme
                                                Court; by yeas 26, nays 16.
                                          Judiciary Committee's (85)
                                                for the appointment of Master Commissioners in the
                                                several counties; yeas 31, nays 9.
                                          Mr. Wilson's, (92) to enable banks to change
                                                their location in banking districts: by yeas 27,
                                                nays 14.
                                          Mr. Culver's, (57) to authorize County
                                                Commissioners to organize turnpike companies; by
                                                yeas 29, nays 12.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 18, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and
                                          Means, reported in reference to the defence
                                    bonds of the State, that they had examined, in connection with
                                    the Finance Committee of the Senate, bonds to
                                    the amount of $746,500, and burned the same.
                              Mr. SHOAFF, of Allen, from the same committee, made a similar
                                    report in reference to coupons.
                              Mr. JONES from the same committee, reported the destruction of
                                    Treasury notes, after examimation, to amount of $235.
                              Reports from committees recommending that House bills 21, (see page
                                    45;) 67, (p. 68;) and 127, (p. 112) be laid on the table; and
                                    that 92, (p. 85;) be indefinitely postponed, were concurred
                                    in.
                              Mr. PACKARD from the committee on the State Prison
                                          North, reported as to its affairs, recommending
                                    an appropriation of $125,000; and also, appropriations to pay
                                    contractors and debts of the Board. The report was made the
                                    special order Friday next.
                              
                                    RAILROAD MANAGEMENT.
                                    The bill (S. 15) concerning the rights of railroad companies,
                                          affecting chiefly the Indianapolis and Cincinnati
                                          railroad, was read the third time and passed by yeas 84,
                                          nays 3.
                              
                              
                                    A NATIONAL CONVENTION.
                                    The joint resolution H. R. 8--printed page 95 of these
                                          Reports--was taken up.
                                    Mr. BROWN said that matter was a very great importance, and
                                          that consultation sufficient had not been had upon it. He
                                          hoped that the consideration of the resolution would be
                                          postponed, that more unanimity than he believed now exists
                                          might be obtained.
                                    Mr. LASSELLE said the matter was all important not only to
                                          the people of Indiana but of the whole country. He was,
                                          therefore desirous of calm and deliberate consideration.
                                          He would, for that reason, no press the resolution. He
                                          thought that the resolution should be considered in
                                                Committee of the whole, and that,
                                          for the purpose of due consideration, the bill be
                                          printed.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM thought it would be better for the friends of the
                                          measure to make it nearly perfect as possible before
                                          submitting it to the House.
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK (Mr. Miller in the chair) preferred to have the
                                          Committees on Federal Relations and Compromise report
                                          before discussion was had on the resolution.

                                    

                                    Mr. LASSELLE submitted amendments, which provide for a vote
                                          of the people at the same time on the question of a
                                          National Convention; if a majority vote against the
                                          Convention this act fails. The soldiers int he field are
                                          to be allowed to vote by proxy, sending their votes,
                                          attested by a witness, to the judges in their several
                                          precincts. The delegates to receive the same pay as
                                          members of the Assembly.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH submitted an amendment to substitute June for
                                          April, and to provide that no force shall be withdrawn
                                          from any rebel State or blockade be raised.
                                    The resolution and amendments were referred to the
                                                Committee on Federal
                                          Relations.
                              
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY.
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees were offered, read and
                                          several adopted, to wit:
                                    By Mr. MILLER, In reference to the constitutionality of a dog
                                          tax.
                                    By Mr. HOLCOMB, In reference to providing a fund for the use
                                          of sick and wounded soldiers.
                                    By Mr. WOODRUFF, In reference to the expediency of amending
                                          the School Law so that School Funds can be loaned at a
                                          less rate than six per cent.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time and
                                          severally passed to the second reading:
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK. [227] in reference to the investment of the
                                          Sinking Fund surplus.
                                    By Mr. GREGORY. [228] To provide for the reviewal of
                                          judgments rendered through fraud.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, [229] Supplemental to an net on
                                          Corporations.
                                    By Mr. NEWMAN, [230] To prevent persons form tearing down
                                          handbills, etc.
                                    By Mr. RIPPEY, [231] To amend the school law.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The following described bills were read the third time and
                                          finally passed, unless otherwise stated:
                                    The bill [H. R. 35] providing that township trustees shall
                                          serve two years instead of one, was rejected, by yeas 31,
                                          rays 31.
                                    Mr. Mutz's. [H. R. 75] providing for the inspection
                                          of petrolium and other coal oils; by yeas 73, nays 8.
                                    Mr. Lasselle's. (H. R. 23) amending section 47 and
                                          49 of the act defining misdemeanors--to protect the
                                          liberties of the citizens by enforcing obedience to writs
                                          of habeas corpus) by yeas 55, nays 30.
                                    On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the bill S. 6 was taken up, and
                                          the majority and minority reports were considered.
                                    Mr. LASSELLE said in this political juncture of affairs it
                                          was imprudent for the State to divest itself of any
                                          portion of its sovereignty. He did not know whether we
                                          were to have the Union of our fathers restored or not. In
                                          ordinary times he would vote for the bill. We should be
                                          careful now, for we did not know six months hence whether
                                          the government will be a government will be a government
                                          of the whole or a portion of the Union, nor what portion
                                          Indiana would be belong to.
                                    Messrs. TARKINGTON, PACKARD, ROBERTS, GREGORY and BROWN
                                          favored its passage.
                                    The minority report to table the bill was rejected; yeas 15,
                                          nays 72.
                                    The majority report was concurred in, and the bill passed;
                                          yeas 67, nays 12.
                                    The bill (S. 20) to amend the assessment law; yeas 53, nays
                                          36.
                                    The bill (S. 26) relating to guardians and wards, touching
                                          property of female wards after marriage; yeas 73, nays
                                          7.
                                    The bill (S. 22) to amend the misdemeanor Law; yeas 75, nays
                                          1.
                                    The bill (S 32) in reference to giving notice of suits to
                                          persons whose residence is unknown; yeas 79, nays 3.
                                    Mr. HOWARD introduced a bill (232) to legalize sales of land
                                          by town Marshals, in certain cases, which was read the
                                          first time.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, February 19, 1863.
                              
                              Committee reports recommending that the bills S 63--page 98;--and
                                    H. R. 83,--p. 141;--be laid on the table, were concurred in.
                              
                                     THE FISH LAW.
                                    The bill (S. 67) the better to secure the free passage of
                                          fish in the streams of this State, was called up.
                                    Mr. LANDERS moved to recommit with instruction to amend by
                                          excepting White river and White Lick.
                                    Mr. CORBIN explained that the bill at present under
                                          consideration was substituted by the committee for the one
                                          introduced by him.
                                    On motion by Mr. SHIELDS the bill was subse quently
                                          indefinitely postponed; yeas 22, nays 17.
                                    Mr. MARCH was convinced that it was quite as essential to
                                          pass some law for the protection of lish, as it was to
                                          protect game. If this law was too stringent, amend it; but
                                          he did not favor the motion to kill it.
                              
                              
                                    LEGISLATIVE APPORTIONMENT.
                                    The hour having arrived for the consideration of the bill (S.
                                          111) to district the State for Legislative purposes, the
                                          Senate went into Committee of the
                                          Whole--Mr. Browne, of Randolph, in the
                                          chair.
                                    A number of amendment to the first section--the
                                          Senatorial--were offered and voted down.

                                    

                                    Mr. WOLFE moved to strike out all after the enacting clause,
                                          and insert what in effect would be a new bill.
                                    The committee rose and reported the bill and the pending
                                          amendment--Mr. Wolfe's--to the Senate for further
                                          action.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, moved to recommit the bill and amendment
                                          to the Committee on Apportionment.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. MELLETT moved to lay the motion on the table.
                                    A division of the question was demanded and the amendment was
                                          laid on the table; yeas 22, nays 16.
                                    The bill was recommitted.
                                    
                                          THE $140,000 MILITARY FUND.
                                          Mr. WOLFE offered a resolution, which was adopted, that
                                                the Governor be requested to communicate to the
                                                Senate what action he has taken under "an
                                                act to provide for the defense of the State, to
                                                procure first class arms, artillery, cavalry and
                                                infantry equipments and munitions of war, making the
                                                necessary appropriations therefor, and authorizing
                                                the Governor to borrow money," approved
                                                April 1, 1861. That he show in such communication
                                                the amount of money borrowed, of whom, in what
                                                manner the same has been secured, and how and when
                                                the same is to be paid. Also, the number, kind, and
                                                value of arms and equipments that have been provided
                                                by him under the provisions of said act.
                                          On motion by Mr. BEARSS his bill 98--see page 122--was
                                                taken from the table and referred to a select
                                                committee viz: Messrs. Bearss, Ferguson and New.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed to the second reading
                                                :
                                          By Mr. BLAIR, (145) to direct the Clerks of the Court
                                                of Common Pleas in the several counties of this
                                                State to procure certain docket and to direct the
                                                docketing of estates and guardianships and
                                                regulating the fees of said clerks in relation
                                                thereto, and repealing all laws in conflict with the
                                                same.
                                          By Mr. FERGUSON, (146) granting the use of the State
                                                Prison at Jeffersonville to the United States for
                                                the imprisonment of criminals convicted of offenses
                                                against the United States, directing the Warden of
                                                said Prison to receive such prisoners, and
                                                prohibiting the officers of the Northern Prison from
                                                receiving the same.
                                    
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                          The following described bills were read the third time
                                                and finally passed, unless otherwise stated :
                                          Mr. Cobb's, (S. 18) to amend the act to
                                                provide for the opening of highways, so as to give
                                                County Boards discretionary power as to appointing
                                                reviewers of roads; by yeas 37, nays 1.
                                          Mr. Gaff's, (S. 72) to amend section 42 of the
                                                act incorporating cities. The bill excludes from
                                                taxation notes. &c., in the hands of
                                                guardians belonging to non-resident minors; by yeas
                                                35, nays 4.
                                          Mr. Wolfe's, (S. 83) providing that creditors
                                                and suitors shall have a right of action in certain
                                                cases before the debt or liability is due, and
                                                providing for attachment in certain cases; by yeas
                                                35, nays 0.
                                          The bill (H. R. 119) to amend the act fixing the time
                                                for holding the terms of Common Pleas courts in the
                                                several counties of the State, was indefinitely
                                                postponed.
                                          Mr. March's, (S. 96) requiring Clerks and
                                                Auditors to make indexes; by yeas 40, nays 0.
                                          Mr. Hartley's, (S.97) to provide for the
                                                publication by railroads of the rates of passenger
                                                fares, and fixing penalties for charges above the
                                                published rates; by yeas 26, nays 13.
                                          Mr. Wolfe's, (S.99) to provide for the issue
                                                of fee bill on appeals from Commissioners'
                                                and Justices' courts; by yeas 28, nays
                                                11.
                                          Mr. Wolfe's, (S. 101) to amend section 40 of
                                                the practice act, regulating the publication of
                                                legal notices, by yeas 38,nays 0.
                                          Mr. White's, (S. 125) to amend section 5 of an
                                                act for incorporation of manual labor schools; by
                                                yeas 37, nays 1.
                                          Mr. Blair's, (S. 126) to amend section 5 of
                                                the act regulating the adoption of heirs; by yeas
                                                37, nays 1.
                                          Mr. Brown of Wells's, (S. 129) in relation to
                                                suits against joint stock companies was rejected; by
                                                yeas 16, nays 21.
                                          The bill (H. R. 4) to amend the practice act was
                                                rejected; by yeas 19, nays 16.
                                          The bill (H. R. 22) to amend the divorce law was
                                                rejected; by yeas 17, nays 18.
                                          The bill (H. R. 18) to amend the law in relation to
                                                estrays was rejected; by yeas 17, nays 19.
                                          The bill (H. R. 59) to empower Sheriffs to offer lands
                                                for sale at the door of the Clerks office in
                                                counties where there is no court house; by yeas 37,
                                                nays 0.
                                          On motion by Mr. MARCH his bill 106--see page 127--was
                                                taken from the table and appropriately referred.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, February 19, 1863.
                              
                              The reading of the Clerk's minutes of yesterday's
                                    proceedings was dispensed with.
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    House bills 191 to 214 inclusive--introduced day before
                                          yesterday and the day previous--were read the second time
                                          and appropriately referred; except 191, 193, 205 and 211,
                                          which were ordered engrossed.
                              

                              

                              
                                    GOV. MORTON AND HIS MILITARY
                                          OFFICERS.
                                    Mr. HARNEY offered the following:
                                    WHEREAS, It appears by the Indiana State
                                          Journal, of the 17th inst., that there was a meeting held
                                          on the 7th inst of the officers of the 27th regiment of
                                          Indiana volunteers at their camp, near Stratford Court
                                          House, Virginia, at which meeting among others the
                                          following resolution was adopted;
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  "Resolved, that in
                                                  the resolutions of Messrs. Brown and Wolfe,
                                                  (Senators,) of Washington and Wells counties, we
                                                  see nothing less than treason in its broadest
                                                  sense, and as such deserving the penalty attached
                                                  to the highest crime known to our laws, and we
                                                  recommend that Governor Morton make an example of
                                                  them at once, and, if necessary, to recall the
                                                  27th regiment of Indiana volunteers to enforce
                                                  that or any other such emergency as may
                                                  rise;" therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That it is a matter
                                                  of deep regret on the part of the members of this
                                                  House that any officer in the service of the
                                                  Government should so far forget the obligations of
                                                  the soldier or the duties of the citizen as to
                                                  support or countenance resolutions of the
                                                  character above recited, calculated to foment and
                                                  encourage insubordination in the army by
                                                  introducing party divisions and political
                                                  discussions in their most violent and offensive
                                                  forms, making it the right and duty of officers
                                                  and soldiers who differ with them to protest
                                                  against such measures in language equally as
                                                  pointed and decisive, and tending directly to
                                                  produce civil war at home by rallying the
                                                  constituency of a representative to his defense
                                                  when threatened by a power they themselves created
                                                  and posted for the protection of the rights they
                                                  now threaten to destroy,and
                                                  WHEREAS, The above recited
                                                  resolution is reported to have been endorsed by
                                                  all the commissioned officers of said regiment
                                                  except one Lieutenant Jerger, of Company K, and
                                                  have been sent to this city for the purpose of
                                                  being published in the Indiana State Journal a
                                                  paper ardently in the support of Governor Morton,
                                                  which facts are calculated to give unusual
                                                  significance to the proposition therein suggested,
                                                  and involving as it does the dignity of this
                                                  General Assembly, the personal safety of its
                                                  members, we deem it due to ourselves and the
                                                  Governor of the State to have a full understanding
                                                  of the matters; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That his Excellency
                                                  the Governor be requested to communicate to this
                                                  House at his earliest convenience whether He
                                                  approves or condemns the above recited resolution;
                                                  and also, whether any officers in the service of
                                                  this State or the General Government, civil or
                                                  military, has ever submitted to him a proposition
                                                  to bring troops into this State, or using those
                                                  that are now here for the purpose of overwhelming
                                                  this General Assembly or to prevent the execution
                                                  of any laws they might enact.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. HARNEY spoke eloquently in support of his resolution. His
                                          illustrations from history were apt, beautiful and
                                          conclusive, touching the respect always paid by the
                                          citizen to the soldier, bat insisting at the same time
                                          upon the subordination of the military to the civil
                                          authority. This matter had at last come to a point. Do we
                                          pay men, do we support them, do we honor them for the
                                          purpose of introducing politics in their camps? Do we do
                                          all these things for the purpose of having threats sent
                                          back against us while in the exercise of our liberties as
                                          citizens? He wished to know if Governor Morton approved of
                                          the action of these soldiers, if he disclaimed it, it
                                          would be all right. If he approved it, it then would be
                                          known where we stand. Then would we know whether it was
                                          determined or not to maintain the supremacy of the civil
                                          authorities that the rights and liberties of the citizen
                                          might be maintained intact.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON said no doubt many regiments were willing to
                                          volunteer to come home to aid the Governor in suppressing
                                          rebellion, if it takes place, and put down traitors here.
                                          I think there are traitors in Indiana.
                                    Mr. PUETT. Give the names of the men.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON stated he had received a letter written by a
                                          Democrat to his son in that regiment, who was in the guard
                                          house, expressing his sorrow, but, preferring that he
                                          would remain there till the end of the war rather than
                                          fight farther in this war. Also, that they had at home an
                                          organization, the K. G. C's., composed of
                                          Democrats only, and if he escaped from the army, they
                                          would protect him, as they would not let another deserter
                                          be taken back from Indiana. On such data he thought there
                                          were traitors in Indiana numbered by thousands.
                                    Mr. HARNEY asked if the peace resolutions were
                                          treasonable.
                                    Mr JOHNSON. They are not outspoken treason.
                                    Mr. LAMB read an extract from the Richmond Whig, endorsing
                                          them as treasonable.
                                    Mr. HARNEY said if there was treason in the matter, it was in
                                          the editor of the Indianapolis Journal who got them
                                          published in the Richmond Whig.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON. The army look on any compromise or armistice as
                                          treason.
                                    Mr. HARNEY. Do you think it treasonable to favor an
                                          armistice?
                                    Mr. JOHNSON. Such propositions are a disgrace to the State of
                                          Indiana. They are intended to protract the war, and secure
                                          the recognition of the Confederacy. He knew the sentiments
                                          of the army by resolutions and by letters. On the ground
                                          assumed by the soldiers they were guilty of no wrong in
                                          passing such resolutions. The majority of the officers in
                                          that regiment were Democrats, and loyal Democrats. He knew
                                          the men, officers and privates of the 27th regiment; he
                                          had the honor of serving in that regiment as Surgeon, and
                                          he knew that they regarded gentlemen on this floor,
                                          because of their disloyal resolutions, as sympathizers
                                          with traitors.
                                    Mr. MILROY. Any man who says I am a sympathizer with traitors
                                          is an infernal liar.
                                    The SPEAKER called "order."
                                    Mr. PUETT hoped that the word "traitor,"
                                          with regard to members on this floor, would be dropped
                                          henceforth.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON did not say that there were traitors on this
                                          floor. He knew, he repeated, the sentiment of the
                                          soldiers. He had seen them shed tears of grief over the
                                          tidings which reach them through the Indiana Sentinel. Was
                                          it wonderful, then, that they should tender their services
                                          to Governor Morton, when those who had been their friends
                                          at home deserted them,  to maintain the laws of Indiana--to prevent the taking
                                          of Indiana out of the Union and attaching her to a
                                          Northwestern Confederacy?
                                    Mr. BROWN. Does the gentleman really suppose that there are
                                          men in Indiana, Democrats, who desire to take Indiana out
                                          of the Union?
                                    Mr. JOHNSON, I do.
                                    Mr. BROWN, I demand that the gentleman shall name the men who
                                          desire to do this thing.
                                    Mr. HARNEY hoped gentlemen would discuss the resolutions
                                          temperately.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON, Did not believe the majority or the House intend
                                          to introduce resolutions this session to take the State
                                          out of the Union, because the majority don't
                                          favor it, and others dare not do it.
                                    A Voice--"Why do they not dare do it?"
                                    Mr. JOHNSON. Because of the strong arm of the loyal
                                          people.
                                    Mr. BROWN, Name them.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON. There are members or the Democratic party who do
                                          favor it. They know who they are.
                                    Mr. BROWN again demanded their names, as he would not lie
                                          under such imputation, and denied its truth.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON declined to give way for questions, but was glad
                                          that gentlemen were ready to let the country know just
                                          where they stood. He was himself for the war till the
                                          rebellion was crushed. He referred to the threat that the
                                          Democracy would resist force by force.
                                    Mr. HARNEY. Do you suppose any man would submit to such a
                                          threat as that in the resolutions without resisting
                                          it?
                                    Mr JOHNSON. I understood him to say that he would resist
                                          threat by threat. These soldiers do not desire to crush
                                          any loyal man. Why need the gentleman feel guilty and
                                          afraid if their skirts and that of their party are clear
                                          of treason?-- If there were no traitors there would be no
                                          fear on this score, and fewer arbitrary arrests. The 27th
                                          Regiment is loyal, and and has not taken up political
                                          questions.
                                    Mr. ABBETT. Are you willing to vote for a resolution to
                                          exonerate this body from this infamous charge of being
                                          traitorous.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON. If you take back some of your resolutions
                                          relative to a National Convention and armistice I
                                          will.
                                    Mr. BROWN. We do not propose to take back anything.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. We have not passed them.
                                    Mr. JOHNSON. You have respectfully received and referred
                                          them, and made them a special order and refused to table
                                          them.
                                    Mr. WOLFE, I stand by the resolutions and if that is treason,
                                          then I am a traitor.
                                    Mr. HOWARD. Do you approve of the army, under any
                                          circumstances, telling the Legislature what they may or
                                          may not do?
                                    Mr. JOHNSON. Under some circumstances, I do. If resolutions
                                          are introduced into the Legislature to take Indiana out of
                                          the Union, they have a right to express their opinion.
                                    Mr. BR0WN. Mr. Speaker, the gentleman who has just taken his
                                          seat, during the course of his remarks, stated that he
                                          knew of gentlemen belonging to the Democratic party in the
                                          State of Indiana who had expressed themselves as desirous
                                          of taking, and willing to attempt to take the State of
                                          Indiana out of the Union. I ask him if he will repeat that
                                          statement?
                                    Mr. Johnson declined to do so.
                                    Mr. BROWN. I now ask him to name the persons to whom he has
                                          referred?
                                    Mr. JOHNSON declined to answer.
                                    Mr. BROWN I now, sir, charge him with having uttered that
                                          which is wholly false and without the foundation of truth,
                                          and I desire that my denunciation and denial of his
                                          statement shall go to the country with his remarks.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH argued against the resolution.
                                    Mr. WOLFE followed in support of the resolution, lie Reminded
                                          to know if the Governor, and Republicans on this floor
                                          approved and would assist in carrying out the threat
                                          contained in the resolutions purporting to come from the
                                          soldiers.
                                    Mr. GIVEN also supported the resolution in most eloquent
                                          terms. There was one peculiarity about the resolutions
                                          coming from the field. They were signed by the officers,
                                          and not by the rank and file. The private soldiers--the
                                          majority of them--were Democrats. When they came home,
                                          they would act with the Democratic party. When, in the
                                          history of the world, was it considered treasonable to
                                          propose peace? All nations since time began, involved in
                                          war, had sought peace. He to-day sought peace. These were
                                          his sentiments, and gentlemen might call it treason if
                                          they were a mind to. He denounced all such resolutions as
                                          those purporting to come from the 27th regiment and
                                          assuming to speaks the sentiments of the true soldier. He
                                          did not consider it treason to wish the war ended. He
                                          wished to have the war ended, and the sooner the better,
                                          for he believed and had believed from the first, with
                                          Douglas, that war is disunion.-- The rebellion could not
                                          be put down by arms. The rank and file of the army today
                                          sought peace.
                                    Mr. K1LGORE Have you ever made speeches urging Indianians to
                                          volunteer?
                                    Mr. GIVEN. I made one such speech at a special request, but I
                                          believed at that time, as now, that war is disunion. As to
                                          the threat of coercion, if we have a Cromwell at the door
                                          it is time for us to know it. Such were his sentiments,
                                          and men may call it treason if they wish.

                                    


                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    On motion of Mr. NlBLACK, the resolution--Mr.
                                          Harney's--was postponed till Tuesday morning at
                                          10 a. m.
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          House bills 215 to 232 inclusive--introduced yesterday
                                                and the day before--were read the second time and
                                                appropriately referred; except 215, 221, and 227,
                                                which were laid on the table and ordered printed for
                                                the use of the House.
                                    
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE FIRST READING.
                                          Senate bills 13, (see page 55;) 37, 58, 40, (p. 80;)
                                                44. 45. (p. 83;) 51. 52, 57, 58. 59, (p. 92;) 62,
                                                6G, (p. 98;) 69, (p. 100;) 73, (p. 101:) 74, (p.
                                                105;) 82, (p. 113;) 85, (p. 114;) 87. 90, (p. 118;)
                                                102, (p. 122;) and 112, (p. 146;) were read the
                                                first time and passed to the second reading.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          Senate bills 39, (p. 80;) and 76, (p. 105;) were read
                                                the second time and appropriately referred.
                                    
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                          The bill [H. R. 30] excluding parties to suits from
                                                being witnesses was rejected; by yeas 22, nays
                                                53.
                                          Mr. Garvin's bill, [H. R. 147] to amend the
                                                practice act--it makes the law apply to contracts
                                                out of the State as well as in--was read the third
                                                time and finally passed; by yeas 72, nays 0.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, February 20, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. FERGUSON offered a resolution, which was adopted, that a
                                    committee of three be appointed to compile and report to the
                                    Senate, from the reports of the officers of the two State
                                    Prisons, a statement of the annual expenses of each prison for
                                    the two years last past, exclusive of repairs, machinery and
                                    construction, but including salaries of officers, and showing
                                    the average annual expenses for each convict in each prison,
                                    during said period.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL called up the bill, [H. R. 44) to change the time of
                                    holding Common Pleas Courts in Fayette county, which was read
                                    the third time and passed, by yeas 41, nays 0.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    Were introduced, read the first time and passed to the second
                                          reading, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. COBB, a joint resolution, (13) against the expediency
                                          of Congress accepting League Island for a Navy Yard.
                                    By Mr. CORBIN, [147] a bill providing for the election and
                                          appointment of officers for the Benevolent Institutions of
                                          this State; prescribing some of their duties and other
                                          matters properly connected therewith; repealing all laws
                                          in conflict with the game, and declaring an emergency for
                                          the Immediate taking effect thereof.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    By Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, [148] a bill for the relief of
                                          Peter Wells and Benoni Wells--read twice and referred.
                                    A committee report recommending that the bill S. 110--see
                                          page 129--be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                                    
                                          LEGISLATIVE APPORTIONMENT.
                                          The hour having arrived for the consideration of the
                                                bill [S. 111] for districting the State for
                                                legislative purposes--
                                          The bill was read by sections; and various amendments
                                                offered, some of which prevailed, and many others
                                                did not. Finally the bill and amendments got exactly
                                                into the shape the committee imported, and at that
                                                stage, and at a late hour, the bill and amendment
                                                were ordered to be engrossed. All sorts of
                                                parliamentary expedients were used to strive off the
                                                vote, but failed.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, February 20, 1863.
                              
                              Petitions were presented--one from citizens of Marshall county for
                                    a military board of one from each Congressional District; one
                                    from Fountain county on the same subject; and one from Randolph
                                    county praying for a law prohibiting negroes from carrying
                                    arms.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Recommending that Senate bill 28, (see page 79;) and House
                                          bills 56, (p. 57;) 124, (p.110;) 131, 134, (p. 112;) 148,
                                          (p. 122;) 179, (p. 135;) 183, (p. 141;) and
                                          217--introduced last Tuesday--be laid on the table, were
                                          severally concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    Mr. March's bill, [S. 24] providing for the
                                          conveyance of school lands to assignees who hold
                                          certificates from School Commissioners, was finally
                                          passed, by yeas 81, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Gaff's bill, [S. 30] providing for the erection
                                          or repair of bridges across streams forming the
                                          'boundary line between counties, was read the
                                          third time and passed; by yeas 81, nays 3.
                              
                              
                                    FEES AND SALARIES.
                                    Mr. HUMPHREYS, from the Committee on Fees and
                                                Salaries, introduced a bill, [233] to
                                          repeal the law in reference to fees and salaries, which
                                          was read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    THE MORRILL TARIFF.
                                    The Committee on Agriculture returned the
                                          joint resolution H. R. 21--see page 93 of these
                                          Reports--recommending its passage.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON objected to the passage of the resolution as
                                          unwise and unjust. It was an echo of a speech made by a
                                          leader of the Democratic party, who complained that the
                                          West is ground down by the ex-  actions of New England to
                                          enrich its manufactures, till we are made hewers of wood
                                          and drawers of waters to them, and that when it could not
                                          be endured he would speak as a sectional man. He also
                                          essayed to show that the interests of the West were
                                          intimately connected with the South in stead of the East.
                                          He thought few of the members had read the Morrill tariff,
                                          or understood its provisions, yet they claim that the
                                          agricultural population of the West bears the greater
                                          portion of the taxes under the tariff law. Indiana is an
                                          agricultural State, and has a fertile soil. Massachusetts
                                          has a sterile soil, and is fitted for manufactures. Yet
                                          Massachusetts has an agricultural population, too, and
                                          they are crushed quite as much as the tanners of Indiana,
                                          for they are consumers, also. We must consider the whole
                                          question. Our revenue can be raised by tariffs, direct
                                          taxation, or indirect taxation, on the principle of the
                                          internal revenue, law. Instead of a direct tax, we have
                                          the tariff law and internal revenue Saw. It was unwise to
                                          stigmatize one part of the system and overlook the other.
                                          What is not raised by the tariff must be raised by the
                                          internal revenue law. Had the capitalists of the East
                                          owned the Administration, they would have compelled them
                                          to levy a direct tax, which would come on the farmers
                                          directly. The State of Indiana, as an agricultural State,
                                          would have been heavily taxed. Indiana has a population of
                                          over 100,000 more than Massachusetts, and an excess of
                                          white male adults of nearly that amount. As the direct tax
                                          is levied according to representation. Indiana would pay
                                          more than Massachusetts But under the income tax
                                          Massachusetts pays far more than Indiana as we have few
                                          capitalists, and very few whose incomes are over $600 a
                                          year; while Massachusetts has a large amount of capital in
                                          few hands, which has been accumulating for one hundred
                                          years. Massachusetts manufactures largely. There is a
                                          large amount of traffic, and consequently a much greater
                                          number of contracts are made there than here. Every
                                          contract must be stamped, and the amount of duties paid
                                          there is much larger than is paid in this State.
                                          Undoubtedly Massachusetts will pay five or six times more
                                          revenue for stamps than Indiana. As to bank stock in the
                                          two States, it was in Indiana, in round figures.
                                          $4,000,000, in Massachusetts, $64,000,000. These banks pay
                                          heavily in stamp duties on checks, certificates, etc., and
                                          will, under the new financial act of Congress, about to
                                          pass, pay a tax of three per cent. on their circulation.
                                          Take into consideration the relative investments in
                                          insurance stocks, and the proportion is about $1,000 here
                                          to $1,000,000 there. For every dollar of revenue from the
                                          tax on the income from these investments the Government
                                          will receive about $1 here to $10 there.--Your farmers
                                          have no license to pay; the traffickers of Massachusetts,
                                          her dealers, her manufacturers, must take out a license as
                                          the first step to business. Their manufacturers pay a tax
                                          of three per cent. on all they manufacture, and on some
                                          manufactures it amounts to far more than three per cent.
                                          It may be said that they get it back from consumers by
                                          adding it to the price of the manufactures. They are
                                          compelled to go into the market, and run their own risks.
                                          Suppose a tax of three per cent. was levied on produce, do
                                          you think farmers could compel their customers to pay the
                                          three per cent, additional ? Massachusetts has also a
                                          large amount of capital invested in commerce, which
                                          involves a large amount of commercial transactions, adding
                                          to the revenue, under the income law. Let me refer a
                                          moment to the tariff. How does it affect the East? If the
                                          tariff does prevent the importation of foreign goods, then
                                          it cripples her commercial enterprise, and ruins a large
                                          amount of her industry. It strikes as heavily on the
                                          commerce of the East as on the production of the West.
                                          What would become of her merchant marine in such a case?
                                          Take the Internal Revenue Law, and see how it bears on all
                                          professions, manufactures and commerce, and you will find
                                          that for every dollar paid by the people of Indiana, ten
                                          dollars are paid by Massachusetts. He thought, including
                                          the income tax, the proportion would be the same. Suppose
                                          the tariff does bear heavier on the West than on the East,
                                          the internal revenue tax bears ten times more on the East
                                          than the West. While he was not disposed to misstate the
                                          opinions expressed by other gentlemen, he would,
                                          nevertheless, say, if you by harangues or resolutions,
                                          could embitter the people of the West against the East,
                                          and make them believe that they are borne down by its
                                          oppression; if you wish to get up a Northwestern
                                          Confederacy, the surest and best way to do it is to till
                                          the people of the West with haired of their brothers of
                                          the East. If you wish to cause separation of the Union.
                                          you can pursue no better course than to pass resolutions
                                          of this character, and make speeches denouncing the East.
                                          Hence we should hesitate to pass resolutions calculated to
                                          excite hostility against New England.
                                    Mr. PUETT said that the gentleman (Mr. Anderson) did not seem
                                          to understand the first principles of a tariff. What was a
                                          tariff? He would quote Silas Wright and John Quincy Adams.
                                          They had declared it to be a tax on the country. The
                                          farmers, the planting men--that class that produced
                                          everything--bore all the burdens. They bore the burdens of
                                          the Government, and would continue to do it so long is we
                                          had a Government, the gentleman's talk about a
                                          Northwestern Confederacy to the contrary notwithstanding
                                                 By the Morrill
                                          tariff the agricultural interest of the whole country was
                                          ground to the dust. The' Morrill tariff was nor,
                                          for revenue, but for protection. The million paid by
                                          Massachusetts was paid by us, and we had to pay a half a
                                          million to pay that. He quoted from statistics to show
                                          that imports had fallen off since the passage the Morrill
                                          tariff some $68,000,000. They cold not have passed the
                                          Morrill tariff even through the present depraved Congress
                                          if it had not been tacked on to the revenue bill. We know
                                          we of the West were burdened, and that our money goes into
                                          the pockets of the Yankee manufacturers. If that money
                                          went to sustain the Government, cheerfully would the West
                                          pay it. It everything, discriminations were made in favor
                                          of New England and against the great West. Even in the
                                          matter of ammunition needed by our armies all over the
                                          country, the Chief of Ordnance (Gen. Ripley) had refused
                                          to purchase of the Indiana Arsenal a better article at
                                          one-third the price he was paying to contractors in the
                                          East. He eloquently exhorted gentlemen to throw aside
                                          their party predilections and stand by their whole
                                          country, the Constitution and the Union. If they did not
                                          do it--if the politicians did not do it--the people, very
                                          speedily, too, would take the matter in hand, and, telling
                                          them to get out of the way, save this their country and
                                          their Government themselves.
                                    Mr. CASON thought that on its face the resolution might not
                                          seem to mean much, but its tendency should be looked to.
                                          If we have imported $68,000,000 less of foreign goods, we
                                          have just so far failed to protect the pauper labor of
                                          Manchester. You must choose whether you will support the
                                          labor of England or New England. Whenever New England has
                                          been stigmatized there has been applause here. This shows
                                          a bitter hate against New England, which forbids a fair
                                          examination of the question. The Morrill tariff brings in
                                          a revenue of $39,000,000, an expense of about $1 to each
                                          person in the United States, and yet you claim to be
                                          ground down by it. The Great West don't pay all
                                          this tax. It is absurd to talk about being crushed by the
                                          tariff The farmers of the west use but a small portion of
                                          the imports, and are not the chief consumers. How, then,
                                          can the Western farmers be borne down? The Arsenal had
                                          been dragged in. What State in the East owns an Arsenal?
                                          Not one. The eastern Arsenals belong to the United States,
                                          and are worked by it.
                                    Messrs. PUETT and HARNEY contended that Gen. Ripley was
                                          disposed to discriminate against the West.
                                    Mr. CASON said if the West proposed to repudiate the tariff
                                          it gave New England an excuse for refusing to pay her tax
                                          under the internal revenue law.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. HALL offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting
                                          the State Auditor to report to the House the amounts of
                                          the several funds of the State, parts of which belong to
                                          the School Fund, and whether they are in a condition to be
                                          invested according tot he provision of the Constitution,
                                          and if so, what amount.
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed tot he second reading,
                                                to-wit:
                                          By Mr. NIBLACK. [234] supplemental to the swamp land
                                                act.
                                          By. Mr. GREGORY, [235] to relieve Jacob Haines, of
                                                Warren county.
                                          By Mr. PACKARD, [236] to confirm the purchase of
                                                certain real estate in Porter county by the Northern
                                                State Prison Board of Control.
                                          By Mr BUSKIRK--Mr. Holcomb in the Chair--[237] to amend
                                                the act relating to the State University. It
                                                provides for the election of eight trustees, and
                                                reorganizes the Board. 
                                          By Mr. HERSHEY, [238] to amend sections 14 and 15 of
                                                the license law.
                                          By Mr. PACKARD, [239] to amend the 28th section of the
                                                election law--as to the duties of Judges.
                                          By Mr. KEMP, of Dubois, [240] to amend the act relating
                                                to guardians and wards.
                                          By Mr. PACKARD, [241] to amend the 7th section of the
                                                act relating to fees of county officers.
                                          By Mr HANNA, [242] an act to relieve G.F. Cookerly and
                                                Calvin Jones; $2,500 to Cookerly and $500 to Jones,
                                                for printing offices destroyed by mobs. (Read twice
                                                and referred to a select committee of five.)
                                          By Mr. PACKARD, a joint resolution [32] against the
                                                acceptance of League Island, near Philadelphia, for
                                                a navy yard.
                                          By Mr. MILLER a joint resolution, [33] to print 10,000
                                                copies of the laws relating to the descent of
                                                estates, in pamphlet form.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE MORRILL TARIFF.
                                          The House resumed the consideration of the question
                                                pending at the morning adjournment--the joint
                                                resolution with reference to the Morrill tariff.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK was surprised at the energy with which
                                                gentlemen in opposition to the resolution had
                                                enforced their views. He entered his protest at the
                                                outset against considering the question as a
                                                sectional one. It was simply a question legislative
                                                consideration, having only an incidental reference
                                                to anything sectional.--He had thought that every
                                                one in the Northwest had long since taken for
                                                granted that tariffs for protection alone ought to
                                                be exploded. The agricultural interests of this
                                                country had always been opposed to protective
                                                tariffs; to laws indirectly taxing them for the
                                                benefit of man-  ufactures. The Morrill tariff never could have
                                                passed Congress had it not been tor the secession of
                                                the Southern States; for the absence of those who
                                                represented a constituency opposed to tariffs for
                                                protection. He was in Congress at the time the bill
                                                was under consideration, and he voted against almost
                                                every proposition it contained. Nobody pretended to
                                                deny that the bill was not passed to protect the
                                                interests of manufacturers in opposition to the
                                                interests of agriculturists. It was universally
                                                conceded, and therefore he was surprised at any
                                                serious opposition to the resolution, But gentlemen
                                                could not talk about these public questions without
                                                talking about a Northwestern Confederacy.--Simply
                                                because a man was born in the West it was taken for
                                                granted that he was opposed to New England. This
                                                idea was pursued so far that it was beginning to be
                                                ridiculous. Why, if he was a single man, he would
                                                almost be afraid to propose marriage to any other
                                                than a Yankee girl, for fear it might be said that
                                                his proclivities were for a Northwestern
                                                Confederacy.--But, seriously, he felt like standing
                                                on his reserved rights as one of the great
                                                Northwestern people. He could remember the time
                                                when, unless a man had the Yankee nasal twang, he
                                                was not considered fit to hold an office. But times
                                                had changed, and now, when everything is claimed for
                                                New England--brains and all the rest--and measures
                                                were adopted for her benefit, and oppressive to us,
                                                he involuntarily put his hand upon his pocket, and
                                                said they should rob us no more. He had an
                                                admiration for whatever was great, noble and
                                                patriotic in New England; but he had an equal
                                                admiration for all that was great, noble and
                                                patriotic in the Northwest. The two portions of the
                                                country were equal under the Constitution. Because
                                                this had been forgotten had such sectional
                                                legislation as this of the Morrill tariff obtained.
                                                The people of the West had always been opposed to
                                                such class legislation--to the odious and unjust
                                                distinctions and discriminations of tariff laws.
                                                Again, the people of the West, who had no hand in
                                                bringing on this war, were cheerfully bearing its
                                                burdens. They had promptly filled their quotas by
                                                volunteers and drafted men, while that of
                                                Massachusetts was not yet full. And all this while
                                                New England was being enriched by the war, and our
                                                burdens were almost greater than we could bear. It
                                                was natural, then, that we should complain of and
                                                resist all oppressive measures enacted for the
                                                especial benefit of those for whom we had and were
                                                now contributing everything. Every Northwestern man
                                                asked for nothing but what was just and right, and
                                                he insisted that by a modification of the tariff our
                                                burdens might be lightened. He had regarded with
                                                astonishment many of the measures passed by the
                                                present Congress. Measures which, in times of peace,
                                                would not have been considered at all, were in time
                                                of war adopted. Among these measures was the
                                                abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia;
                                                another was the Pacific Railroad bill. He never
                                                could understand why men should advocate such
                                                measures. In time of war these measures had been
                                                adopted. And now our first great duty was to do that
                                                which was right, maintaining our own rights and
                                                conceding the rights of others. We must stand by our
                                                own State, our own section, granting what is due to
                                                every other State and section. In the Valley of the
                                                Mississippi was the seat of future empire. The
                                                interests of the great and growing people of that
                                                valley must be consulted. They were not consulted by
                                                such measures as the Morrill tariff, and the sooner
                                                it was got out of the way the better. He defied any
                                                intelligent man to take that law and read it, and
                                                say upon his honor that it was a law doing equal and
                                                exact justice to the people of the West. It was
                                                because of such measures as he had indicated,
                                                because of peculations and plunderings of the public
                                                Treasury, and because of the diversion of the war
                                                from its original objects, forcing men to fight in a
                                                cause for which they never enlisted--it was because
                                                of all these things that that "moral
                                                power" so much talked of by the gentleman
                                                from Jefferson, had been lost by the Republican
                                                party, now drifting before the wind. The Democratic
                                                party, by reason of divisions, jealousies and
                                                treacheries among its leaders, lost that
                                                "moral power," and in 1860 was
                                                overwhelmingly defeated. Now it was regaining it,
                                                and it would be used to restore the Government, the
                                                Constitution and the Union once more.
                                          Mr. ANDERSON said it was not a political, but a
                                                statistical question. It was a Democratic Congress
                                                which passed the Morrill tariff, and it was signed
                                                by James Buchanan. The gentleman had said the
                                                Democracy were honest, and couldn't steal.
                                                He knew why they succeeded last fall. 90,000 men
                                                were in the field, and some members who are here
                                                were elected because they claimed to be in favor of
                                                a vigorous prosecution of the war. He had asked the
                                                friends of the resolution to give the facts, and
                                                they had not been given.--Those best informed had
                                                given little information. The tariff had been called
                                                a protective tariff. In 1857, we had a revenue
                                                tariff. In 1860-1, to June, it yielded $39,000,000.
                                                Then this was passed. It went into effect when war
                                                was destroying our industry. Yet the revenue was,
                                                for the same time, $49,000,000--an increase of
                                                $10,000,000. It was a revenue tariff.--Under the
                                                indirect system, these high livers, who have no
                                                property, are compelled to aid in supporting the
                                                Government. Under direct taxation, the tax would
                                                come oft the land, and that would almost crush our
                                                agriculturists. In reference to our de-  pendence on the South,
                                                he granted that our Southern outlet was important
                                                before railroads and canals were built, which all
                                                run cast. The greater portion of our produce goes
                                                east.
                                          Mr. BUSKIRK asked if it, did not cost four times more
                                                to carry a bushel of corn to New York by railroad
                                                than by river.
                                          Mr. ANDERSON admitted it might now, from river towns.
                                                He then quoted statistics showing that in 1850,
                                                sixteen times more grain went east than to New
                                                Orleans, and a similar proportion of other produce.
                                                He would admit there wera defects in the tariff, and
                                                the internal revenue law, but, as a whole, it was a
                                                system not to bo set aside. If it was to be repealed
                                                and a direct tax laid, the people would soon hurl
                                                from power the men who imposed it on them.
                                          Mr. HANNA denounced the Morrill tariff as the most
                                                wicked and monstrous measure over imposed on the
                                                American people. The New England delegation in
                                                Congress had made it an ultimatum hat the Morrill
                                                tariff should be adopted before they would vote for
                                                a single proposition of the revenue law. They made
                                                this demand to fill their own pockets at the expense
                                                of the people of the West. He proceeded to show in
                                                detail the manifest injustice of the tariff
                                                operating in favor of the East and oppressively on
                                                the West.-- The people of the West, the consumers,
                                                were bearing the burdens of the war by taxation out
                                                of all proportion. And yet, under the operation of
                                                the tariff, not one dollar, or fraction of a dollar,
                                                went into the hands of the Government, but into the
                                                pockets of a most remorseless set of speculators. He
                                                wonted the New England States to enjoy their rights
                                                under the Government--no more no less. But the labor
                                                of the West--the source of all our wealth--was
                                                burdened with a taxation the heavy load of which
                                                must be removed.
                                           Mr. BRANHAM stated that he was disposed to agree that
                                                whoever put himself in the way of the people would
                                                have to get out of the way. In regard to the
                                                resolution, he contended we had a right to express
                                                our opinion on public measures, but there was a
                                                question of expediency as to speaking that. At the
                                                present time he thought it doubtful, he favored a
                                                revenue tariff with incidental protection. It was no
                                                fault of the Morriil bill that tea and coffee were
                                                taxed, but of Jeff. Davis. It was admitted free till
                                                the war. Had the country been at peace, its effect
                                                might have been very different. Bring your
                                                manufacturing establishments as near the consumer as
                                                possible. If the New England manufactories were in
                                                Indiana, it would make the price of produce higher,
                                                and goods lower. The same rule holds good in
                                                reference to foreign manufactures. It was the
                                                interest of Indiana to develop her manufacturing
                                                interests, and that is the best mode of protecting
                                                the farmer. Cotton cloth had not advanced at all
                                                over the rise in cotton. This rebellion, which was
                                                brought on the country by arch-traitors, was caused
                                                by their revolt at the decision of the people. The
                                                war had caused an increased demand for all the
                                                materials of war, which New England had. The West
                                                ruined ? Corn was sold at sixty cents per bushel,
                                                and the price of wheat and cattle had never borne
                                                such prices before. Our true course was to give
                                                implicit confidence to the Government, as far as we
                                                can. If there had been a great expense in the war,
                                                men of both parties were responsible. The army of
                                                the Potomac had been the most costly, and was
                                                controlled by men of Democratic associations. As to
                                                the prohibition on steel, New England did not have
                                                the benefit, but Pennsylvania. A united interest
                                                could control legislation to some extent. Mr. Bright
                                                had said it was not for the interest of the
                                                Democracy to allow slavery to be destroyed, because
                                                no other interest would unite them as one man. The
                                                present high rates of transportation were due to
                                                Jeff. Davis, for the war had called into requisition
                                                the railroads, and used the transportation of the
                                                country, sometimes for months at a time.
                                          Under the previous question the resolution was ordered
                                                to an engrossment--yeas 50, nays 28.
                                          Mr. HOLCOMB offered a resolution limiting speeches to
                                                fifteen minutes, which was laid over under the
                                                rules.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, February 21, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. NEW presented a petition from the 7th regiment, which was
                                    ordered to be printed, with the papers forwarded from the army
                                    of the Cumberland.
                              Reports from committees recommending that Senate bills 109, (see
                                    page 128:) 120, (p. 150;) and joint resolution 9. (p. 117;) be
                                    laid on the table, were severally concurred in.
                              Mr. MELLETT offered the following, which was adopted :
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                WHEREAS, The General Assembly
                                                  desire to join, on Monday next, in the proposed
                                                  celebration of Washington's birthday;
                                                  therefore,
                                                Resolved, That when the Senate
                                                  adjourn this afternoon, it adjourn to meet on
                                                  Tuesday, at 9 a. m.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    FURLOUGHS FOR SICK SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. MURRAY offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The policy pursued
                                                  by the military authorities having charge of the
                                                  volunteer militia of this State, in the
                                                  prosecution of the war, in refusing furloughs to
                                                  our sick and wounded soldiers, whereby they could
                                                  return to their homes for the restoration of their
                                                  health, until their recovery was beyond reasonable
                                                  hope, is a needless and cruel sacrifice of the
                                                  lives of our citizen soldiery--detrimental to the
                                                  public service by discouraging enlistments, and
                                                  creating a feeling of hostility to the war;
                                                  and,
                                                  WHEREAS, The Legislature of
                                                  Indiana has already placed the necessary means in
                                                  the hands of the Governor to avert, as far as
                                                  possible, the sad calamities of this war, which is
                                                  filling our State with  desolated homes, and is
                                                  still willing to adopt any means in its power to
                                                  save the lives of those who have generously and
                                                  patriotically offered them to the service of their
                                                  country for the restoration of the Union;
                                                  therefore,
                                                  Be it Resolved by the Senate, the
                                                  House concurring, That His Excellency, Oliver
                                                  P. Morton, together with our Senators and
                                                  Representatives in Congress, be, and they are
                                                  hereby, respectfully requested to use their
                                                  influence with the War Department in such manner
                                                  as shall procure for each sick and wounded Indiana
                                                  soldier a furlough home at the expense of the
                                                  Government, whenever the Regimental or Hospital
                                                  Surgeon shall certify that such sick or wounded
                                                  soldier is not likely to be fit for duty within
                                                  twenty days.
                                                  Resolved, That suitable
                                                  arrangements also be made whereby all such
                                                  furloughed soldiers of this State shall be
                                                  reported to the Adjutant General of the State,
                                                  their names, places of residence, and the time for
                                                  which they have been furloughed, in order that, at
                                                  the expiration of their furloughs, or at such time
                                                  after the expiration thereof as they shall be
                                                  declared fit for duty by competent Surgeons at
                                                  their place of residence, all such soldiers may by
                                                  the Adjutant General of the State be ordered back
                                                  to their several regiments.
                                                  Resolved, That upon the
                                                  passage of this concurrent resolution, a copy
                                                  thereof be presented to the Governor, and one
                                                  forwarded to each of our Senators and
                                                  Representatives in Congress by the Secretary of
                                                  the Senate.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    The resolutions were adopted unanimously.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    Mr. Blair's bill, [S.4] to amend the law fixing
                                          docket fees, increasing the salaries of prosecutors, and
                                          prohibiting them from appointing deputies; failed for the
                                          want of a constitutional majority; yeas 25, nays 12.
                                    Mr. Beeson's bill, [S. 80] to amend the liquor
                                          licence law so as to require the license money to be paid
                                          to the County Treasurer before receiving the license
                                          certificate, was read.
                                    Mr. WOLFE moved an amendment to reduce the license from $50
                                          to $20
                                    Mr. FERGUSON moved to amend the amendment and make the
                                          license $30.
                                    Mr. NEW moved to lay both amendments on the table.
                                     The bill was informally passed over.
                                    Senate bills, [144] regulating Sheriffs' fees, 145
                                          and 146--introduced day before yesterday--147. and joint
                                          resolution 13--introduced yesterday-- were read the second
                                          time, and appropriately referred--except 146, 147, and the
                                          joint resolution, which were ordered engrossed.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    House bills 27, (see page 50:) 35, (p. 54;) 72, (p. 68;) 75,
                                          (p. 82;) 123, (p. 110;) 147, (p. 122;) and joint
                                          resolution 15. (printed on pages 77 and 78;) were read the
                                          first time.
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. MARCH, [149] to prevent the circulation of
                                                counterfeit coin, and altered and worthless bank
                                                bills. Treasury notes, and postal currency. (The
                                                bill authorizes banks to stamp such counterfeits,
                                                and affixes penalties for stamping genuine coin or
                                                paper.)
                                          By Mr. DOWNEY, [150] to amend an act to amend section
                                                19 of an act to fix the time of holding the Common
                                                Pleas Court approved February 15, 1861.
                                          By Mr. BROWN, of Wells, [151] to prohibit Clerks of
                                                Circuit and Courts of Common Pleas and their
                                                Deputies from practicing law or performing; any of
                                                the duties of Attorneys in any of the Courts of
                                                which they are Clerks.
                                          By Mr. COBB, [152] to amend section 19 of "An
                                                act to provide for the opening, vacating and change
                                                of high ways," approved June 17, 1852.
                                          By Mr. NEW. [153] to amend section 6 of an act to
                                                repeal all laws now in force for the incorporation
                                                of cities, approve March 9, 1857, and to provide for
                                                a penally upon city taxes remaining delinquent after
                                                the third Monday in March A.D. 1857, approved March
                                                1. 1859.
                                          Mr. RAY called up the resolution in regard to the time
                                                of meeting of the Senate and for holding night
                                                sessions two evenings in the week. The resolution
                                                passed, amended so as to meet at 8 1/2 a.m. and 1
                                                1/2 p.m. and to hold evening sessions on Wednesday
                                                and Friday evenings of each week, commencing at 7
                                                1/2 p. m.
                                          On motion by Mr. MARCH, the bill H. R. 109,--see page
                                                109--was taken from the table and referred buck to
                                                the Finance Committee.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, February 21, 1865.
                              
                              Reports from committees recommending that the joint resolution
                                    proposing amendments to the Constitution relating to Common
                                    Schools; and the bill H. R. 169--see page 135--be laid on the
                                    table, were concurred in.
                              On motion by Mr. HUMPHREYS, the bill H.R.174 was taken from the
                                    table and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.
                              
                                    RESOLUTIONS OF INQUIRY.
                                    Addressed to appropriate committees were offered, read, and
                                          severally adopted to-wit:
                                    By Mr. WATERMAN, as to expediency of more clearly defining
                                          the mode of surveying lands.
                                    By Mr. BLOCHER, calling upon Superintendents of Deaf and Dumb
                                          and Blind Asylums to furnish a list of the persons of whom
                                          they have made purchases, and the amount of each bill.
                                    By Mr. MILLER, that, the Senate con-curring, we will go into
                                          an election of one Trustee for each Asylum, on Friday
                                          next, at 2 p. m.
                                    By Mr. GRIFFITH, relative to visiting the benevolent
                                          institutions by committee.
                                    By Mr. MILROY, as to certain changes in the road law.
                              

                              

                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading :
                                    By Mr. MASON. [243] enabling Judges of Circuit Courts to
                                          appoint Prosecuting Attorneys in cases where the regular
                                          Prosecutor is charged with felony.
                                    By Mr. SPENCER, [244] amending the act incorporating
                                          cities.
                                    By Mr. ROBINSON, [245], fixing the time of holding Common
                                          Pleas Courts in Lake, Porter, Jasper, Stark, Newton and
                                          Pulaski.
                                    By Mr. NIBLACK. [24(5] to classify the incorporated cities of
                                          Indiana and the better to provide for their police
                                          regulations--establishing a Board of Commissioners, to be
                                          elected by the Legislature, who shall act in conjunction
                                          and upon counsel taken with the municipal authorities.
                                          Indianapolis is declared a city of the first class, and
                                          David Macy, William O. Rockwell, R. H. Hall, and John W.
                                          Dodd appointed Commissioners.
                              
                              
                                    FURLOUGHS FOR SOLDIERS.
                                    The resolution relative to sick and wounded soldiers--printed
                                          in the Senate proceedings of this day--was taken up.
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK (Mr. Woollen in the Chair) hoped that the
                                          resolution would be immediately acted on, and that it
                                          would pass.
                                    Mr. MILROY and other gentleman argued in favor of it.
                                    The resolution was unanimously adopted.
                                    On motion by Mr. MILLER, the bill S. 33 was taken from the
                                          table and referred to a select committee.
                                    House bills 233 to 241 inclusive--introduced yesterday--were
                                          read the second time and appropriately referred; as wore
                                          also Senate bills 13. (see page 47;) 37, 38, 40, (p. 80;)
                                          42, 45, (p. 83;) 51, 52, (p. 120,) 57, 58, 59, (p. 92;)
                                          62, 68, (p. 98;) 69, (p. 100:) 73, (p. 101;) 74, (p. 105:)
                                          82, (p. 113;) 85, (p. 114;) 87, 90, (p. 118;) 102, (p.
                                          122;) and 112, (p. 146.)
                                    House joint resolutions 26. (see pages 111 and 112;) 28, (p.
                                          123;) 29,(p. 127;) 30, (p. 135;) 31, (p. 141; 32 and
                                          33--introduced yesterday--were read the second time and
                                          appropriately referred.
                                    Senate bills 18, (p. 60;) 72, (p. 101;) 83, (p. 114;) 96, 97,
                                          99, 101, (p. 122;) 125 (p.150;) and 126, (p. 151;) and
                                          joint resolution 5, (p. 97,) were read the first time.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    MONDAY, February 23, 1863.
                              
                              The reading of the Clerk's journal of Saturday's
                                    proceedings was dispensed with.
                              
                                    WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                    House bills 243 to 246--introduced Saturday--were read the
                                          second time and appropriately referred--except 246 which
                                          was laid on the table, and 200 copies ordered printed for
                                          the use of the House.
                                    Senate bills 18. (see page 60;) 72, (p. 101;) 83, (p 114) 96,
                                          97, 99, 101, (p. 122;) were read the second time and
                                          appropriately referred.
                                    Senate bills 125. (p. 122;) and 126 (p. 151) and joint
                                          resolution 5; (p. 97;) were ordered engrossed.
                                    On motion by Mr. HARNEY, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That when the House
                                                  adjourns, it be until 7 1/2 o'clock this
                                                  evening.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    On motion by Mr. WATERMAN it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the Auditor of
                                                  State be required to furnish this House at as
                                                  early a day as possible, a statement showing the
                                                  amounts, if any, that have been drawn during the
                                                  two years ending the 30th day of January 1863, out
                                                  of the general fund on account of the expenses for
                                                  which appropriations were made at the last regular
                                                  or special sessions of the Legislature; and also
                                                  state whether warrants have been drawn on
                                                  appropriations made for certain purposes, to pay
                                                  other items of expense and if so, state their
                                                  nature and amounts.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. KILGORE offered a resolution ordering 10,000 copies of
                                          the Governor's message printed for distribution
                                          in the army.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK moved to refer the resolution to the
                                                Committee on Printing.
                              
                              
                                    NIGHT SESSION.
                                    Mr. Niblack's bill. [H. R. 94] enabling railroad
                                          companies authorized by other Slates to make extensions in
                                          this State, erect, depots, &c., was passed--yeas
                                          70, nays 0.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, February 24, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL introduced a joint resolution. [14] expressing the
                                    opinion of the Legislature in condemnation of desertions from
                                    the army, which was read the first time.
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    The following bills were introduced,read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading :
                                    By Mr. COBB [154] an act to amend sections 3, 5, and 6 of
                                          "An act to provide for the government and
                                          discipline of the prison, and to repeal an act to provide
                                          for the government and discipline of the State Prison,
                                          approved March 3, 1855, and all other laws or parts of
                                          laws inconsistent herewith," approved February 5.
                                          1857.
                                    By Mr. BRADLEY [155 requiring all persons hereafter sentenced
                                          to confinement in the State Prison to be conveyed to the
                                          State Prison at Jeffersonville; providing for the transfer
                                          of convicts from one State Prison to the other, and
                                          repealing an act to authorize the removal of convicts from
                                          the Southern State Prison to the Northern.
                                    By Mr. REED. [156] to amend the 4th section of " an
                                          act in relation to County Auditors," approved May
                                          31, 1852.

                                    

                                    By Mr. WOLFE, [157] defining the offences of unlawful
                                          seizures, arrests, imprisonments and removals of persons
                                          in or from this State; prescribing punishment therefor,
                                          and declaring when this act shall take effect.
                                    By Mr. RAY, [158] to provide for the printing and binding of
                                          two thousand copies of the laws passed at the regular
                                          session of the General Assembly in the year 1863, in the
                                          German language, and for the distribution and sale of the
                                          same.
                                    By Mr. MARCH. [159] regulating the fees to be charged for the
                                          services of the Clerk of the Supreme and Circuit and
                                          County Auditors, the disposition to be made of the same,
                                          and to repeal all laws inconsistent therewith.
                                    By Mr. NEW, [160] to amend section 12 of "an act to
                                          fix the times of holding the Common Pleas Courts in the
                                          several counties of the State, and repealing all laws
                                          inconsistent therewith," approved March 5,
                                          1859.
                                    On motion by Mr. HORD, the bill S. 33--see page 80--was taken
                                          from the table and referred to the Judiciary
                                                Committee.
                                    The bill, [S. 80] to amend the liquor law, was laid on the
                                          table; by yeas 24, nays 17.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, offered a resolution that no more
                                          leaves of absence be granted, and that the roll be called
                                          each morning after the reading of the journals, and the
                                          absentees noted. Laid over until to-morrow,
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL offered a resolution calling on the
                                                Committee on Elections to report
                                          its action on the contested election case of Messrs.
                                          Murray and Baker, which was laid on the table; by yeas 19,
                                          nays 13.
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEE.
                                          Senate bills 149 to 153 inclusive--introduced
                                                Saturday--were read the second time and
                                                appropriately referred; except 150, 152 and 153,
                                                which were ordered engrossed.
                                    
                                    
                                          FREEDOM OF THE PRESS.
                                          The bill [S. 79] to protect the liberty of the press,
                                                being the special order, it was taken up.
                                          The question being on the amendment to the committee
                                                amendment--see pages 128 and 148 of these
                                                Reports--
                                          Mr. MARCH explained his amendment. It was to strike out
                                                the section allowing injured parties to collect
                                                damages from cities, towns and counties.
                                          Mr. REED objected to the entire bill, and more
                                                particularly to the second section. He considered it
                                                wrong to hold one man liable for another
                                                man's wrong,
                                          Mr. RAY made a clear, concise and logical argument in
                                                favor of the bill and in defence of the second
                                                section. It was competent for the Legislature to
                                                define an offence, and to prescribe penalties for
                                                it. The principle of making city corporations
                                                responsible for injuries sustained by their neglect
                                                was right and just. There could be no question of
                                                its justice. He considered the policy of the
                                                section, and contended that it was required in the
                                                present excited state of the public mind. He
                                                admitted the abuse of the press, but with all that
                                                we cannot do without it, and a bold, manly, and
                                                independently conducted press was a safeguard to our
                                                liberties. Let us tolerate the evils to secure the
                                                greater good. A shield should be thrown around it.
                                                The law, in these times of excitement should come in
                                                and stay the hand of violence; it was both just and
                                                politic.
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL was opposed to the bill, and would offer
                                                amendments at another stage. He was in favor of the
                                                liberty of the press and the liberty of speech.--The
                                                provisions of the bill should be ex tended. If it is
                                                right in one case it is right in another. He would
                                                offer an amendment to make the provisions of the
                                                bill work the other way. If a party got a judgment
                                                against the editor for slander and failed to collect
                                                it, let him go back to the county for it. He
                                                contended that all the little papers throughout the
                                                country whose subscription lists were about run out,
                                                would publish such articles for the sake, of selling
                                                out under this bill. He contended that public
                                                sentiment was the best regulator, and there was
                                                scarcely an instance of a press being destroyed that
                                                had not outraged public sentiment.
                                          Mr. RAY. What does the gentleman think of the
                                                destruction of Lovejoy's press in Illinois,
                                                and the press of Cassius M. Clay in Kentucky ?
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL admitted that the papers alluded to had
                                                been destroyed. The public sentiment of the country
                                                was opposed to them and it was in bad taste to
                                                aggravate it by publications in the midst of such
                                                sentiment. There was no loyal paper in the North in
                                                danger from a mob.
                                          Mr. COBB. The Senator from Fayette (Mr. Claypool)
                                                guarantees the safety of all loyal newspapers. That
                                                term loyalty has become a relative term. Who was to
                                                construe loyalty? If the Senator from Fayette was to
                                                be the judge it would not include all the newspapers
                                                now published. People differed in their
                                                interpretation. The principle of the bill is a good
                                                one. When you look behind all ho mobs that have
                                                disgraced the land, you find men of means and
                                                influence urging on the reckless among them. By this
                                                bill you reach that class of men, and it is the best
                                                means of putting a stop to mobs. In reply to the
                                                argument that public sentiment would control the
                                                press, he admitted that it could : and should. They
                                                had the power to put it down by withholding
                                                patronage from it, and that was the only way that a
                                                press or a any lawful business should he put
                                                down.

                                          

                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, had always, from his earliest
                                                recollection, condemned mob violence. He was willing
                                                to vote for the penal part of the bill, and he would
                                                enforce it. He was glad to see his Democratic
                                                friends get up to the point of the free expression
                                                of opinion. He was in favor of agitation where evil
                                                existed, and he was opposed to meeting a free
                                                expression of opinion with brick-bats and stores. In
                                                days gone by the Abolition presses were mobbed. He
                                                opposed such acts then, and he would oppose them
                                                now. But he was opposed to making municipalities
                                                responsible for acts such as this bill contemplated.
                                                It was inflicting a penalty on innocent men.
                                          Mr. MELLETT criticised the bill, particularly the
                                                second section, contending that it would be
                                                inoperative in courts. He contended, also, that the
                                                principle of the bill was wrong.
                                          Mr. WILLIAMS would like to know how far a paper could
                                                go before it could be called treasonable. Senators
                                                here, by their arguments had rather justified mob
                                                violence. He would read an article to them, and ask
                                                if it was treasonable. He read a violent
                                                denunciation of the corruptions of the
                                                Administration from the Cincinnati Times, and asked
                                                what Republican Senators thought of that?
                                          Several Senators replied that the extract would make
                                                good Democratic capital.
                                          Mr. WILLIAMS. But if a Democratic paper had published
                                                the extract it would have been pronounced
                                                treasonable.
                                          The amendment was rejected; yeas 15, nays 24.
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL offered, an amendment to include other
                                                property as well as printing- presses; and also to
                                                make corporations and communities liable when
                                                judgment against an editor for libel cannot be
                                                made.
                                          The amendment was laid on the table; by yeas 25, nays
                                                13.
                                          Mr. MARCH moved to amend by making the provisions of
                                                the bill apply to public speakers, remunerating them
                                                for injury in person or property.
                                           Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved to amend the amendment
                                                by striking out the second section and inserting the
                                                following:
                                          SECTION 2. That in case a Democratic printing press is
                                                destroyed by mob violence, the Republicans and
                                                Unconditional Union men of the city, or town, or
                                                county wherein the same is destroyed, shall be
                                                liable for the damages thus done; and in case an
                                                Abolition, Republican or Unconditional Union press
                                                is destroyed by such violence, the Democrats of such
                                                city, town or county shall be responsible for such
                                                damages. The said damages may be recovered in an act
                                                of debt, to be brought in name of the owner or
                                                owners of the press as plaintiff, and against the
                                                political party as aforesaid, by name, as
                                                defendant.
                                          Mr. COBB moved to lay the amendments upon the
                                                table.
                                          Upon a division of the question the amendment to the
                                                amendment was laid on the table, yeas 28, nays 11;
                                                and the amendment was also tabled; yeas 25, nays
                                                14.
                                          Mr. MARCH made an ineffectual motion to lay the bill on
                                                the table: yeas 15, 24.
                                          The bill was then ordered to be engrossed.
                                    
                                    
                                          A NATIONAL CONVENTION.
                                          Mr. BROWN, of Wells, offered the following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Federal Relations,
                                                  to whom was referred Senate joint resolution No.
                                                  6, entitled: "A joint resolution
                                                  proposing a general convention of all the States
                                                  in the Federal Union, including the so called
                                                  Confederate States, with a view to the restoration
                                                  of the Union with all the dignity, equality and
                                                  rights of the several States unimpaired,"
                                                  is hereby instructed to report to the Senate, on
                                                  next Saturday morning, the 28th inst., the said
                                                  joint resolution, with such amendments, if any
                                                  shall be necessary, as shall make the said joint
                                                  resolution embrace the following Propositions:
                                                  
                                                   An indorsement of the fallowing
                                                  language: "Suppose you go to war, you
                                                  cannot fight always and when, after much loss on
                                                  both sides, and no gain on either, you cease
                                                  fighting, the old identical questions as to terms
                                                  of intercourse are again upon
                                                  you."
                                                  Asking the Chief Executive of the
                                                  nation to establish an armistice, with a view to a
                                                  convention of all the States, including the
                                                  so-called Confederate States, for the restoration
                                                  of the Union with all the dignity, equality and
                                                  rights of the several States unimpaired.
                                                  Asking the present Congress to
                                                  provide for such convention.
                                                  Inviting each and every State in the
                                                  Federal Union, including the so-called Confederate
                                                  States, in the event of the present Congress
                                                  failing to provide for such convention, to meet
                                                  Indiana in such convention, at Louisville,
                                                  Kentucky, on the 1st day of June, or not later
                                                  than the 4th day of July 1868, with a view to the
                                                  restoration of the Union with all the dignity,
                                                  equality and rights of the several States
                                                  unimpaired, and providing that should not
                                                  three-fourths of all of said States send delegates
                                                  to said convention, for the reservation to Indiana
                                                  of the right to withdraw from such convention at
                                                  pleasure, and to consider the action of such
                                                  convention as of no binding force and
                                                  effect.
                                                  Providing for the election, from the
                                                  State at large, of delegates to represent Indiana
                                                  in such convention.
                                                  
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          On motion by Mr. BROWN, of Wells, the resolution was
                                                made the special order for 2 p. m. to-morrow.
                                          On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the bill H. R. 94--see page
                                                88--was read twice and ordered engrossed for the
                                                third reading.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, February 24, 1863.
                              
                              A committee report recommending that the bill H. R. 103--see page
                                    94--be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                              
                                    GOV. MORTON AND HIS MILITARY
                                          OFFICERS.
                                    The resolution (printed on page 159 of these Reports,) with
                                          regard to the resolutions purporting to come from the 27th
                                          Indiana regiment, and inquiring whether Governor Morton
                                          approved them, was taken up--it being the special
                                          order.
                                    Mr. KILGORE said he was of that number who had desired to
                                          avoid all discus- 
                                          sions calculated to divide those who should be engaged in
                                          a common cause. Unfortunately for the country the majority
                                          had chosen to make political issues. Resolutions of
                                          censure, and of inquiry, calculated to excite party
                                          animosity between the members, had been introduced at an
                                          early stage of the session. This resolution censures the
                                          27th Indiana Regiment for denouncing the sentiments of
                                          Senators Wolfe and Brown. Had he occupied the position of
                                          the soldiers and had been villified as they have been on
                                          this floor, he should have used the strongest terms in
                                          reply. They have been called
                                          "shoulder-straps."
                                          "abolitionists." &c., and when
                                          they have resented these epithets, Democrats have
                                          introduced such resolutions of censure-- When these men
                                          volunteered we were united in the defense of the Union, no
                                          one expressing contrary sentiments; and now after eighteen
                                          months of toil and struggle, they were denounced as
                                          engaged in a "hellish abolition war," by
                                          resolutions and speeches on this floor. They were told
                                          that they were laboring not for their country, to put down
                                          treason, but simply making a raid on the established
                                          institutions of the States. And yet they must be silent.
                                          He did not believe the Democracy of Indiana were traitors,
                                          but were he a soldier at Stafford Court House, and should
                                          take up the Sentinel and read the propositions of those
                                          Senators, knowing the intentions of the traitors South he
                                          would be forced, as these soldiers were, to come to the
                                          conclusion that they were offered in the interest of those
                                          traitors. All these resolutions were treasonable in
                                          effect, lacking only the intent. Their authors may not
                                          have had such an intent, but believed their advocacy would
                                          be a popular movement for the Democratic party.-- What
                                          would be the effect of an armistice? It would be to end
                                          the war, and establish forever the Southern Confederacy.
                                          By proposing it you dishearten the soldier, encourage
                                          desertion, and say to the traitors, we cannot conquer you,
                                          and are willing to grant you your own terms. The rebels
                                          receive these propositions with contempt. Foote's
                                          resolutions for preface introduced in the rebel Congress
                                          are based on a formal recognition of their independence.
                                          The opinions of these rebels were known to the Democratic
                                          Senators who introduced these resolutions. Any thing which
                                          gives aid and comfort to the enemy only lacks the intent
                                          to make it overt treason. All who have stood by the
                                          Administration have been stigmatized as abolitionists. You
                                          claim that you are not sympathizers. Yet when you use such
                                          epithets, is it not done to break down the Administration
                                          by opprobrium? Your investigating committees have been
                                          raised for the same end. Yet you do not denounce the
                                          rebels in the same terms of bitterness you do the
                                          administration. Even T. A. Hendricks uses this language:
                                          "I have no defence to make for the South in her
                                          present position, and am no advocate of her
                                          cause." That's the severest language he
                                          uses. That is what your leader declares. What further does
                                          he say?-- "Should our Government go down in the
                                          vortex of this revolution the responsibility rests on
                                          Abolitionists." Who are Abolitionists?"
                                          He terms every man so who supports the Government and
                                          denounces him as an Abolitionist. Governor Hendricks is
                                          not alone in this. Judge Perkins in his speech uses no
                                          language worse than that "they have acted in bad
                                          faith towards the North." Yet he makes nearly one
                                          hundred and fifty charges against Abolitionists; that we
                                          have not kept faith in our obligations to the South, and
                                          specifies the reasons why the South had a right to rebel.
                                          Stealing their negroes is an absurd justification. Treason
                                          began in South Carolina where they lost no negroes, and
                                          saw no Abolitionists. The soldiers have a right to
                                          complain of these resolutions, because their tendency is
                                          to demoralize the army. The resolutions propose to ask
                                          Congress to call a National Convention, and if it refuses,
                                          the people are to act for themselves. Their plan gives to
                                          go-by to the Government, and is treasonable in effect. The
                                          Foote resolutions talk "sympathizing most kindly
                                          with those who have brought about the change in the
                                          North," and would propose peace with those States
                                          who, leaving New England, would form a union with the
                                          South. Yet you say, let us go down to Nashville and
                                          re-construct the Government, on their basis, for you know
                                          the terms they offer. Those resolutions have found their
                                          way to Richmond, and are declared by the Richmond Whig to
                                          have the flavor of treason. Another reason why the 27th
                                          regiment have a right to speak their sentiments is this.
                                          Your organization is led by the men I have named. I
                                          challenge you to tell me when these men have ever
                                          sustained the vigorous prosecution of the war.
                                    Mr. WOOLLEN asked: did you not say at the first there was a
                                          universal agreement for the war?
                                    Mr. KILGORE said they did not dare express their sentiments,
                                          but when roaching around. At his Shelbyville speech, Mr.
                                          Hendricks said, he had urged no one to go into the
                                          service. When did Turpie, Hendricks, Perkins, Voorhees and
                                          Vallandigham urge any man to go into the war?
                                    Mr. RICHARDSON. I will answer for Mr. Turpie. He made the
                                          first war speech in White county, and helped to raise the
                                          first company who went to the war from Northern
                                          Indiana.
                                    Mr. SHAFFER said Turpie's county was free from the
                                          draf, while Colfax's was not.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON said the draft was heaviest in the Democratic
                                          townships, and  did
                                          not take place in some Republican townships.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB said the heaviest draft in the State was in
                                          Marion county.
                                    Mr. TARKINGTON said we had not seen the draft here.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB referred gentleman to the report of the Draft
                                          Commissioner.
                                    Mr. KILGORE said those who had been the head and front of the
                                          Democratic party here had always been opposed to the war.
                                          Turpie had made war speeches, yet in his recent speech he
                                          indicates that he did it for party effect, against his
                                          real convictions. It proves that he was always in heart
                                          opposed to the war, and was not an honest and upright
                                          statesman. Take the case of Jesse D. Bright, who was a
                                          traitor, and expelled from the United States Senate for
                                          attempting to place in the hands of traitors improvements
                                          in fire-arms. Gov. Wright was appointed his successor, and
                                          he was at once denounced an Abolitionist.
                                    [Mr. Kilgore was called to order and the Chair ruled that the
                                          discussion must be confined to the one resolution set
                                          forth, and that a general discussion on the conduct of the
                                          war was out of order]
                                    Mr. KILGORE said he was about to give a reason why the
                                          soldiers had a right to come to the conclusions they had
                                          done. He took the resolutions pending to be an act of
                                          censure on that regiment for adopting and publishing their
                                          resolutions.--Hence he had a right to call in question the
                                          course of the legislators who had offered armistice
                                          resoultions. He believed the soldiers had a right to infer
                                          that these Senators were unfriendly to the prosecution of
                                          the war, and they had spoken as they had a right to speak.
                                          It will not be denied that every man in your party who has
                                          favored the vigorous prosecution of the war has been read
                                          out of the party, and bitterly denounced. Their only sin
                                          is patriotism. The letters constantly sent to soldiers to
                                          encourage desertion is another reason why they have
                                          spoken. They have been assured that they should and could
                                          desert, and be protected in their treason. He read but
                                          yesterday a letter from Monroe county, Indiana, in which
                                          desertion is encouraged. The letter is by Mr. McManus and
                                          his wife.
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK denied the knowledge of any such person.
                                    Mr. KILGORE said that Gov. Dunning had stated to him that he
                                          knew such a man.
                                    Mr. McManus claimed that there were three hundred who wore
                                          the lone star, and were going to protect deserters.
                                    [Mr. Kilgore was again called to order, as traveling out of
                                          the record.]
                                    Mr. KILGORE said if it was not competent to give the reasons
                                          why the soldiers had formed their conclusions; if it was
                                          not competent to show the character and tendency of these
                                          armistice resolutions of the Senate, he would yield to the
                                          floor.
                                    Mr. BROWN challenged the gentleman to instance a single word
                                          uttered by any Democrat disrespectful of the Northern Army
                                          Democrats had spoken disrespectfully of
                                          "things" which had succeeded in
                                          introducing themselves into the army. The term
                                          "shoulder straps" had been used with
                                          regard to some of them, but it had never been used with
                                          reference to brave and true officers. No democrat on this
                                          floor, or on the floor of the Senate, had ever denounced
                                          the soldiery; but they had denounced the itinerant
                                          vagabonds so to speak, who, getting furloughs, came home
                                          and perambulated the State, doing the dirty work of the
                                          Abolition partymen who had gone into the army for pay and
                                          were too cowardly to risk their precious carcases in
                                          battle.
                                    [Mr. BROWN was called to order by the minority in all parts
                                          of the House.]
                                    Mr. BROWN. When a soldier fails in his duty, we have a right
                                          to censure him as well as any one else. But the true
                                          soldier was respected and honored by the Democracy
                                          everywhere. Had it not been for the machinations of the
                                          Abolitionists--if the examples of the fathers of 1850, who
                                          then compromised, had been followed in these patent days
                                          of patent Abolitionism, the national flag would float in
                                          triumph from Maine to Georgia. Suppose an armistice takes
                                          place, would it give aid and comfort to the rebels? The
                                          intention of a peace convention would be to sue if we
                                          could not restore the country under one Constitution and
                                          one flag. He claimed that the military law was subordinate
                                          to the civil. It would be more proper, therefore, for this
                                          Legislature to instruct the soldiers than for the soldiers
                                          to instruct us. In his opinion the soldiers, the gallant
                                          privates, had no more to do wit these resolutions than he
                                          had. In his opinion, they were concocted here in
                                          Indianapolis, and sent on to Abolition officers for
                                          signatures men who controlled brave Democratic privates
                                          for the base purposes of Lincoln and his petty Cabinet. He
                                          would like to know if Governor Morton had in any way held
                                          out inducements to these soldiers to come home and overawe
                                          this Legislature. It was the attempt of the Abolitionists
                                          turn the soldiery against the democratic party. Sir, the
                                          Democratic party is not a band of traits: The Democratic
                                          party sought only to restore the Constitution and maintain
                                          and perpetuate the Union. It was the duty of the
                                          Democratic party to sustain the Government when that
                                          Government sought sincerely those great objects. But the
                                          Democratic party were he judges themselves as to whether
                                          those in power transcended the Constitution, to the rigid
                                          observance of which that party would ever hold them.
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK, (Mr. Miller int he Chair) remarking that already
                                          gentlemen had been heard on both sides, and as business
                                                 was preying,
                                          he would demand the previous question.
                                    The demand was sustained, and the main question ordered.
                                    The resolution was adopted, by the following vote:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Abbett,
                                                  Atkison, Bird, Blocher, Brown, Burton, Collins,
                                                  Cook, Donaldson, Given, Hall, Hanna, Harden, of
                                                  Washington, Hardin of Perry, Harney, Hetfield,
                                                  Holcomb, Hon, Howard, Howell, Howk, Humphreys,
                                                  Kemp, of Dubois, Kemp of Vigo, Lake, Lasselle,
                                                  Lee, Lemmon, of Harrison, Lemmon, of Spencer,
                                                  Mason, Miller, Milroy, Mutz, Niblack,
                                                  O'Brien, of Martin, Osborn, Packard,
                                                  Priest, Puett, Reitz, Richardson, Rippey, Ryan,
                                                  Shaffer, Shoaff, of Jay, Spencer, Veach, Wolfe,
                                                  Woollen and Mr. Speaker--50.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Anderson,
                                                  Baker, Branham, Budd, Cass, Chambers, Forester,
                                                  Gregg, Gregory, Griffith, Hershey, Higgins,
                                                  Hostetter, Hutchings, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick,
                                                  Leads, Marshall, Mustard, Newman, Noyes,
                                                  O'Brien, of Hamilton, Perry, Pettibone,
                                                  Robinson, Roe, Stone, and Tarkington--20.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    On motion by Mr. HANNA, his bill [221] the military Board
                                          bill, was made the special order for 10 a. m.
                                          to-morrow.
                                    
                                          THE COLONIZATION FUND.
                                          Mr. BRANHAM offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                                requesting the State Auditor to report the
                                                appropriations for, disbursements of, and present
                                                condition of the Colonization Fund.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE COMMITTED OF THIRTEEN.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK, from the Peace
                                                  Committee, made a majority report, which
                                                was informally tabled, and 500 copies ordered to be
                                                priced. The minority were allowed till 2 p. m.
                                                to-morrow to report.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. ANDERSON. [248] to provide for the elective
                                                franchise by legal voters temporarily absent from
                                                the Stale in military service.
                                          Mr. WOOLLEEN, [249] to authorize Circuit and Common
                                                Pleas Courts to issue warrants for contempt in
                                                certain cases
                                          By Mr. KILGORE, [250] to amend section 4 of the act
                                                relating to sidewalks.
                                    
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                          The following described House bills were read the third
                                                time and finally passed, unless otherwise
                                                stated:
                                          Mr. Kemp, of Dubois', [47] to legalize the
                                                acts of deputies of civil officers who have entered
                                                the military service; by yeas 67. nays 7.
                                          Mr. Given's, [01] to provide compensation for
                                                animals killed by railroad trains; by yeas 59, nays
                                                19.
                                          The bill [102] to fix the equivalent for exemption from
                                                military duty on account of conscientious scruples
                                                at $200 was rejected; by yeas 48, nays 27.
                                          The bill [H. R. 111] to provide for the transfer of
                                                Sinking Fund mortgages to the respective counties
                                                failed for want of a Constitutional majority; yeas
                                                43, nays 37.
                                          The bill [H. R. 116] was laid on the table.
                                          The bill [H. R. 118] amending the license law, makhig
                                                adulteration of liquors felony and punishable by
                                                fine and imprisonment in the State Prison, failed
                                                for want of a Constitutional majority; yeas 44,
                                                nays, 37.
                                          Mr. Howk's, [130] to give additional powers to
                                                Circuit and Common Pleas Judges in vacation; by yeas
                                                76, nays 0.
                                          Mr. GARVIN'S [142] to amend the 656th and
                                                661st sections of the practice act. It extends the
                                                lein on boats to contracts made out of the State as
                                                well as in; by yeas 73, nays 0.
                                          Mr. Lamb,s, [143] to authorize County Auditors to issue
                                                fee bills in certain cases; by yeas 63, nays 6.
                                          Mr. Howk's, [14-9] Supplemental to the act
                                                incorporating mining companies. It prevents
                                                fraudulent insolvency of said companies, and makes
                                                the directors personally liable in such cases; by
                                                yeas 70, nays 5.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 25, 1863.
                              
                              The bill [S. 111] to apportion the State for Senators and
                                    Representatives, being the special order for 9
                                    o'clock--
                              Various amendments were proposed and laid on the table.
                              Mr. RAY moved the previous question which was seconded by yeas 26,
                                    nays 20.
                              The bill was then passed by yeas 26, nays 8.
                              
                                    ARBITRARY ARRESTS.
                                    The Military Committee, reported back the
                                          bill S. 143 with amendments.
                                    Mr. RAY moved to lay the bill and report on the table, for
                                          the reason that a bill introduced by him, and other bills
                                          of a similar character had been before the
                                                Judiciary Committee. They had
                                          considered these bills and had considered his bill, and
                                          recommended its passage. The bill recommended by the
                                                Military Committee the
                                                Judiciary Committee did not;
                                          consider as constitutional. The bill he proposed was a
                                          copy of the New York code, and it was considered by legal
                                          gentlemen to cover the whole ground, and would amply
                                          secure the citizens of Indiana from illegal arrests.
                                    Mr. LANDERS called for the reading of both bills, that the
                                          Senate might be the judge of the merits of them. All he
                                          desired was the protection of citizens. In his opinion our
                                          Government was fast hastening to the condition of a
                                          military despotism, and it was the duty of this
                                          Legislature to throw all the safeguards possible around
                                          the citizens.
                                    The bill and report were laid on the table.
                              

                              

                              
                                    A FALSE RECORD OF A VOTE.
                                    Mr. WRIGHT arose to a question of privilege. He said his name
                                          was recorded as voting against, the apportionment bill,
                                          when the fact was that he was not in the Senate when his
                                          name was called and did not vote.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to correct the tally paper and the record
                                          of the vote so far as Mr. Wright's vote affected
                                          the same.
                                    Mr. BEARSS said he knew Mr. Wright was not in his seat at the
                                          time his name was called.
                                    Mr. RAY said if gentlemen will hide in the corners and
                                          closets and dodge about to defeat what they all
                                          acknowledge to be a fair and just measure, they should not
                                          complain.
                                    Mr. BEARSS said he was out to defeat the passage of the bill.
                                          He intended to do so if he could.
                                    Mr. MARCH said such action was fraud and forgery and if the
                                          Senate bolstered up the conduct of its Principal
                                          Secretary, it was equally guilty of committing a fraud and
                                          a forgery.
                                    Mr. DUNNING said the Senator had the right to have the tally
                                          paper corrected when it was a falsification of the truth
                                          so far as his own vote was concerned, though such
                                          falsification was no doubt unintentionally. He thought the
                                          Senator's own statement ought to be
                                          conclusive.
                                    (The Principal Secretary, in explanation, said he heard
                                          distinctly some one say "no" when Mr.
                                          Wright's name was called, and made the entry
                                          accordingly. He supposed it was Mr. Wright that gave the
                                          vote.)
                                    Mr. BEARSS said he and Mr. Wright went out of the Senate
                                          Chamber during the reading of the bill, and did not return
                                          until some time time after it had been announced that the
                                          bill was passed.
                                    Mr. RAY moved to amend the motion to correct the tally paper,
                                          in regard to the rote of Mr. Wright; and to show that the
                                          Senator from Henry (Mr. Mellett) was in the Chamber, and
                                          not voting.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON made appoint of order. The time to correct the
                                          tally paper was on the reading of the journal in the
                                          morning.
                                    The PRESIDENT (Mr. Shields in the chair) overruled the point
                                          of order.
                                    Mr. RAY spoke to his amendment. In contemplation of law the
                                          journal was being made all the time. He desired the whole
                                          proceeding to appear of record. He was willing, although
                                          the proceedings was irregular, to have the tally paper
                                          corrected in regard to the Senator from Jasper; but he
                                          insisted that the Senator from Henry should be noted also
                                          as present and not voting. He would make the Senator
                                          himself a witness. It would not alter the result in that
                                          event.
                                    Mr. MELLETT contended that he was not in the Senate at the
                                          time the vote was taken. He was in the lobby, and he
                                          contended that the lobby was no more a part of the Senate
                                          Chamber than the library room below was a part of it.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS said that at the last session the
                                          gentleman's friends always counted those in the
                                          lobbies as present and not voting. It was their invariable
                                          rule. He favored the amendment to the motion.
                                    Mr. COBB read from the journal of last session when Senator
                                          Miller entered his protest against the passage of the bill
                                          to reduce the prices paid for public printing and also
                                          another case. These Senators in both cases were without
                                          the bar, and entered as present and not voting. That
                                          Senate refused to correct the journal and he believed they
                                          were right.
                                    Mr. MARCH read from Gushing on parliamentary law to show that
                                          the bar was the limit of a Legislative body.
                                    Mr. BROWNS, of Randolph, moved to amend the amendment by
                                          adding that the Senator was within the room, but without
                                          the bar of the Senate when the vote wan taken.
                                    Mr. LANDERS stated that during the time the vote was being
                                          taken, he saw the Senator from Henry walk out, and
                                          immediately after he saw the Senator very comfortably
                                          seated just outside of the bar reading a newspaper.
                                    Mr. WOLFE wished the motion an amended to pass. It would show
                                          the facts as they existed, and the Chair could decide what
                                          effect would be had. He did not desire, the passage of the
                                          bill as it stood, and only voted for it because he saw the
                                          minority on the floor bolting to defeat the bill.
                                    Mr. MELLETT was satisfied with the position the amendment
                                          placed him in.-- He was represented as comfortably reading
                                          a paper outside the bar, and he did not dispute the
                                          statement.
                                     Mr. WILLIAMS moved to refer the whole matter to a select
                                          committee.
                                    Mr. COBB would vote for the reference, if that would be
                                          satisfactory to the minority. He would tell gentlemen,
                                          however, who were striving to obstruct legislation, that
                                          for himself he would not vote a dollar of appropriation
                                          until this bill and other needful measures of legislation
                                          were passed.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL would go home and leave his district
                                          unrepresented, if bills were declared to be passed as this
                                          one had been.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS would withdraw hit motion to refer, if the vote
                                          could be taken without further debate on the motions and
                                          amendments.
                                    The amendment was laid on the table by yeas 23, nays 20.
                                    Mr. WOLFE offered the following:-- That upon the vote taken
                                          on the question  of
                                          the passage of Senate bill 111, the Senator from Jasper is
                                          recorded by the Secretary as being present and voting in
                                          the negative, and the said Senator afterwards states to
                                          the Senate that he was not in the Senate Chamber when the
                                          vote was taken; it is therefore ordered that the record be
                                          corrected so as to show that the Senator from Jasper was
                                          not present, and did not vote on said question. That upon
                                          the question of the passage of the same bill the record
                                          does not show that the Senator from Henry was present and
                                          failed to vote when his name was called; the fact being:
                                          that, said Senator was present in the lobby of the Senate
                                          Chamber when the vote was taken, and he failed to vote
                                          when his name was called. It is ordered that the record be
                                          corrected so as to show that fact.
                                    This was accepted by Mr. Ray, and agreed to by the
                                          Senate.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON offered a resolution, which was adopted, that
                                          the House return to the Senate instanter, bill 111 of this
                                          body.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. BRADLEY, from Finance Committee,
                                          reported back the bill [S. 106] to provide for the prompt
                                          payment of the soldiers from Indiana, with amendments. The
                                          amendment appropriate $2,000,000, and that the officers of
                                          State be associated with the Governor in the negotiation
                                          and management of the fund.
                                    Mr. HORD did not know that he was prepared to vote for the
                                          appropriation just now. The Senate had asked the Governor,
                                          by resolution, what amount was due to soldiers from this
                                          State, and his Excellency would not condescend to reply.
                                          The State might borrow money and pay interest on it, and a
                                          large portion of it might not be required, and thus it
                                          would lay in the vaults of the treasury--the interest a
                                          dead loss to the State. It was asking but little to be
                                          informed of the amount required, and yet that little
                                          remained unanswered.
                                    On motion by Mr. DOWNEY, the bill was amended, by adding in
                                          the proper place the following:
                                    Provided however, that if there is not enough to pay both the
                                          officers and soldiers, the non-commisioned officers and
                                          soldiers shall be paid the amount due them, before any sum
                                          shall be paid to the commissioned officers.
                                    Mr. COBB moved to amend so as to confine payments exclusively
                                          to non-commissioned officers and privates.
                                    The amendment was warmly urged by Messrs. LANDERS, COBB and
                                          WOLFE, and opposed by Messrs. CLAYPOOL, McCLURG, RAY.
                                          MANSFIELD, REED and MARCH.
                                    Mr. SHIELDS demanded the previous question which was
                                          seconded.
                                    The amendment was rejected by yeas 11, nays 23.The bill was
                                          then ordered to be engrossed.
                                    
                                          LEGISLATIVE APPORTIONMENT.
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB the bill [S. 111] was taken up
                                                and passed by yeas 26, nays 18.
                                    
                                    
                                          A NATIONAL CONVENTION.
                                          Mr. BROWN, of Wells, notified the Senate that a special
                                                order existed for this hour, which was the
                                                consideration of bis resolution introduced
                                                yesterday, instructing the Committee on
                                                  Federal Relations to report, on
                                                Saturday, in favor of an armistice and peace
                                                convention.
                                          Mr. WOLFE moved to postpone the special order until
                                                this day two weeks.
                                          Mr. BROWN, of Wells, said that he would call the yeas
                                                and nays on that question, he desired to see what
                                                Senator here would thus refuse to meet she questions
                                                involved in the resolution which was to be
                                                considered at this time. The people of the Mate
                                                shall know what Senators upon this floor are not
                                                disposed to carry out the wishes of the people in
                                                this direction. If the Senator from Harrison (Mr.
                                                Wolfe) could go back to his people without
                                                representing their will on this subject let him go;
                                                he (Mr. Brown) could not go back to his constituency
                                                with a clear conscience if he did not exert his
                                                efforts, humble though they were to secure to them
                                                the objects contemplated in the resolution.--But he
                                                trusted the motion to postpone would be withdrawn
                                                for the present, in order that the views of the
                                                people upon these topics might be represented
                                                here.
                                          Mr. RAY said the question would call up an exciting
                                                party debate, and he was opposed to such debates
                                                now.
                                          Mr. BROWN, of Wells, said that it was well known that
                                                the joint resolutions, referred to in the resolution
                                                now before the Senate, had been introduced by him,
                                                and had been the subject of much comment-- He had
                                                been branded as an enemy to his country; had been
                                                grossly assailed in the other end of the Capitol,
                                                and it was but just to him that he should have an
                                                opportunity to be heard in defense of his measures.
                                                If the question to postpone prevailed, the
                                                resolution would be defeated. Two weeks from today
                                                the Senate would not be in session. The Senator from
                                                Jackson (Mr. Shields) intimated a desire to have the
                                                resolution go to the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations. The success of such a motion,
                                                equally with the motion to postpone, would kill the
                                                resolution by consigning it to an everlasting
                                                sleep.
                                          Mr. WOLFE explained that his object was not to stifle
                                                the gentleman. The Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations would soon report, he could
                                                then be heard. He withdrew his motion.
                                          On motion by Mr. SHIELDS the resolutions were referred
                                                to the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations by yeas 32, nays 13.
                                    

                                    

                                    
                                          FREEDOM OF THE PRESS.
                                          On motion by Mr. WOLFE, bill 97 to protect the liberty
                                                of the press, was called up.
                                          Mr. MELLETT moved to recommit, with instructions to
                                                provide that if it should be proved that any paper
                                                whose press had been destroyed had uttered
                                                treasonable or disloyal sentiments, no damage should
                                                be collected; yeas 16, nays 26.
                                          The previous question was demanded and seconded, and
                                                the bill passed by yeas 26, nays 17 as follows:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bradley,
                                                  Brown, of Wells, Cobb, Corbin, Davis, of Cass,
                                                  Douglass, Dunning, Ferguson, Finch, Gaff, Gifford,
                                                  Graves, Hartley, Hord, Jenkins, Johnston, Landers,
                                                  McClurg, Marshall, Moore, Murray, Ray, Shields,
                                                  Williams, Wilson, and Wolfe--26.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs, Bearss, Berry,
                                                  Blair, Browne, of Randolph, Claypool, Dickinson,
                                                  Downey, Grubb, Mansfield, March, Mellett, New,
                                                  Pleak, Reed, Tee-garden, White, and
                                                  Wright--17.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          On motion by Mr. Claypool it was--
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That when the
                                                  Senate adjourn it adjourn until Friday morning
                                                  next.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          INVESTIGATING
                                                  COMMITTEE.
                                          Mr. BROWN, of Wells, from the select committee
                                                appointed to investigate the State Quartermaster
                                                General's Department, reported a joint
                                                resolution [15] granting leave to the committee of
                                                the senate and the House to set jointly, after the
                                                adjournment of the Legislature, for the transaction
                                                of the business for which they were appointed. The
                                                joint resolution was read the first time.
                                    
                                    
                                          RAILROAD MANAGEMENT.
                                          Mr. WILLlAMS called up the bill [H.R.94] to enable
                                                railroads incorporated in other States with their
                                                termini on the line of this State to acquire the
                                                right of way and make connections in this State,
                                                &c., which was read the third time and
                                                passed by yeas 42, nays 2.
                                    
                                    
                                          BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
                                          Mr. COBB called up his bill [S. 47] for the government
                                                of benevolent institutions.
                                          Several ineffectual motions were made to stave off the
                                                vote.
                                          The bill was read the third time and put upon its
                                                passage. The vote stood--yeas 26, nays 6--no quorum
                                                voting.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, February 25, 1863.
                              
                              By resolution (introduced by Holcomb) debate was limited to 15
                                    minute speeches by yeas 38, nays. 36.
                              Reports from Committees recommending that the bills S. 66, (see
                                    page 98;) and H. R. 14, (see page 43;) be laid on the table,
                                    were concurred in.
                              
                                    AN EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
                                    Mr. Hanna's Military Board bill [221] was taken up
                                          and the House went into Committee of the
                                                Whole--Mr.Niblack in the chair.
                                    Mr. COOK offered a substitute for the whole bill; in which
                                          the active militia are sworn to sustain the State against
                                          all its enemies and all Constitutional laws of the United
                                          States and of the State; the election of regimental
                                          officers to be supervised by the State officers and the
                                          Governor required to issue commissions to the certified to
                                          by them; Brigadier and Major Generals to be elected by the
                                          Military Count, The bill contained ninety-four long
                                          sections
                                    The CHAIRMAN decided that bill 221 must be considered by
                                          sections before the question could be taken on the
                                          substitute.
                                    Mr. HIGGINS moved to strike out the military tax, section
                                          3.
                                    Mr. BRANHAM said the tax would produce at least $100,000, and
                                          asked what good would result from it.
                                    The amendment was rejected by yeas 33, nays 43.
                                    The committee then rose and reported progress.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    The House again went into Committee of the
                                                Whole on the bill H. R. 221, but
                                          immediately rose and were discharged from the further
                                          consideration of the bill.
                                    The minority report of the Committee of 13 was informally
                                          tabled and 500 copies ordered to be printed.
                                     The bill H. R. 221 was taken up.
                                    The question recurring on the substitute--
                                    Mr. LAMB moved to informally table both bills and to print
                                          200 copies of the substitute.
                                    The substitute was withdrawn.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH offered several verbal amendments preserving the
                                          powers of the Governor, which were tabled by yeas 53, nays
                                          35.
                                    Mr. CASON moved to refer the bill to the Committee
                                                on Judiciary to inquire into its
                                          Constitutionality.
                                    The motion was laid on the table by yeas 51, nays 30.
                                    Mr. BROWN demanded the previous question on the bill.
                                    Mr. ANDERSON asked to be excused from voting, which was
                                          objected to, and the yeas and nays being demanded, ordered
                                          and taken, he was excused by yeas 44, nays 37.
                                    The previous question was seconded by yeas 53, nays 16.
                                    Mr. CASON asked to be excused from voting, and demanded the
                                          yeas and nays.
                                    The SPEAKER. If gentlemen wish to indulge in parliamentary
                                          tactics they must be a little quicker. The call has
                                          already commenced, and the Clerk will proceed with it.
                                    The bill was then ordered to be engrossed--yeas 53, nays
                                          18.

                                    

                                    
                                          REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                          Recommending that the Senate bill 58, (see page 126;)
                                                House bills 104, (p. 94;) 184, (p. 141;) 234 and the
                                                joint resolution H. R. 33 (p. 163,) be laid on the
                                                table, were severally concurred in.
                                          Mr. BROWN offered a resolution empowering the
                                                  Committee on Arbitrary Arrests
                                                to sit for thirty days after the adjournment of the
                                                General Assembly; providing for the printing of
                                                their report, and for the employment and pay of
                                                certain necessary officers; which was made the
                                                special order for tomorrow evening at 7 1/2
                                                o'clock.
                                          Mr. GRIFFITH offered a resolution that when the House
                                                adjourns it be until Friday morning, 9 a. m, and
                                                that the use of this hall be tendered to those
                                                meeting in Republican Convention to-morrow.
                                          Mr. BROWN moved, in amendment, that 7 1/2 p. m.
                                                tomorrow be substituted for 9 a. m. next day.
                                          Mr. ROBERTS and Mr. LASSELLE opposed the
                                                adjournment.
                                          The yeas and nays being demanded they were ordered and
                                                taken, resulting yeas 45, nays 13 no quorum
                                                voting.
                                          A call of the House being demanded and taken, but 57
                                                members answered to their names.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                               HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, February 26, 1863.
                              
                              The SPEAKER remarked that the first business in order would be to
                                    ascertain whether a quorum was present.
                              A call of the House was demanded, and being ordered and taken,
                                    revealed the fact that but 54 members answered to their
                                    names--to wit:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Messrs. Abbett, Atkison, Bird, Blocher, Brogan,
                                                  Brown, Burton, Collins, Cook, De Bruler,
                                                  Donaldson, Ferris, Garvin, Given, Griffith, Hall,
                                                  Hanna, Harden, of Washington, Hardin of Perry,
                                                  Harney, Hetfield, Holcomb, Hon, Howard, Howell,
                                                  Howk, Humphreys, Kemp, of Dubois, Kemp, of Vigo,
                                                  Lasselle, Lee, Lemmon, of Harrison, Lemmon, of
                                                  Spencer, Mason, McGaughey, Miller, Milroy, Mutz,
                                                  Niblack, O'Brien, of Martin, Osborn,
                                                  Packard, Priest, Puett, Rippey, Roberts, Robinson,
                                                  Ryan, Shatter, Hpencer, Veach, Waterman, Williams,
                                                  Wolfe and Mr. Speaker 54.
                                          
                                    
                              
                               No quorum being present--
                              The SPEAKER decided that under the Constitution the House could do
                                    nothing but adjourn from day to-day.
                              Accordingly the House adjourned till 9 a. m. to-morrow.
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, February 27, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. SHIELDS, from the Committee on Elections,
                                    reported a resolution that Chas. L. Murray is not entitled to
                                    the seat as Senator from the counties of Elkhart and Lagrange,
                                    but that John H. Baker is.
                              Mr. JOHNSTON moved to postpone the farther consideration of this
                                    mutter until the 7th of March.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL opposed the motion, stating that its effect would be
                                    to postpone the matter till after the adjournment of the Senate.
                                    If Mr. Baker was entitled to his seat he should have it at
                                    once.
                              Mr. JOHNSTON said that he made the motion so as to expedite
                                    business. But one week remained in which to pass bills, and as
                                    discussion must arise on the question, it should be passed over
                                    for the present.
                              Mr. BEARSS hoped that the question would not be postponed. The
                                    Committee had decided that Mr. Baker was legally entitled to his
                                    seat, and it was a plain question that should cause no
                                    discussion. H should be decided at once.
                              Mr. BROWN of Wells favored postponement.
                              Mr. MURRAY thought it strange that repeated efforts should be made
                                    by his party friends to oust him from his seat. The Senator from
                                    Fayette (Mr. Claypool) had persisted in traveling into his
                                    district to, interfere with the will of his people. It was
                                    because he had refused to make himself a tool of that
                                    Senator--to wear a collar on which was inscribed:
                                    "Senator Murray, my dog." It was because he
                                    had refused to forget his duty to his constituents and join the
                                    revolutionary schemes of his party friends. He knew well the
                                    tricks and party schemes of that Senator. He refused to go at
                                    the beck and bidding of men who assumed to be the leaders of the
                                    Republican party.
                              When these gentlemen violated the rules of this Senate by their
                                    disorganizing proceeding, the other day, for the purpose of
                                    defeating a bill which we were obliged by our oaths as Senators
                                    to pass. I refused to go at the beck of men who attempted to be
                                    leaders on this floor is that thing. And when these gentlemen,
                                    in the after part of the day, came in and consented to the
                                    passage of the bill which they undertook to defeat, in that
                                    respect they put me were I want to stand, as acting in the
                                    discharge of my duty; and they placed themselves, in defiance of
                                    their duty, in a position condemning themselves and stultifying
                                    their own action by consenting to the passage of that bill which
                                    they tried to defeat. And what was the reason they did not again
                                    break a quorum? Why, sir, because the Senate hall was packed, as
                                    it is to-day, by Republicans who had come up to the capital to
                                    attend the meeting of the day following, and they dare not, in
                                    the face of Republicans representing different parts of the
                                    State, do such a revolutionary act as those Senators had done
                                    but a few short hours before. That is my honest conviction, sir,
                                    about that.
                              I know, sir, very well, all the power and influence ef party
                                    discipline; but while holding a seat in the other branch of this
                                    capitol, and while holding a seat, in this Senate chamber; I
                                    have on all ocasions, 
                                    before my constituents and before God, attempted to discharge my
                                    duty, with a conscientious conviction of that duty, and
                                    according to my own best judgment. I know I have been met with
                                    arguments that a man representing a party had no right to plead
                                    his conscience or his judgment. I know arguments have been used
                                    that whatever pledges we have made to the people, we have no
                                    right to carry out those pledges, but it was, on the contrary,
                                    our duty to violate those pledges; and, if necessary,
                                    disorganize this Legislature and prevent the carring out of
                                    those legitimate objects for which it was convened. These were
                                    the arguments brought to bear upon me to control my action as a
                                    Republican--a better Republican than these self-styled leaders
                                    dare ever be a Republican that never gave a Democratic vote.
                                    Never, sir. A Republican, sir, that has been an advocate of the
                                    politics of that party which has laid its very foundations broad
                                    and deep in the counties he represents, as is well known to
                                    every Senator on this floor from that part of the State. One
                                    who, when the first demand of the President of the United States
                                    was made for volunteers, left his seat in this hall, sir, as is
                                    well know to this Senate, and as a private soldier went into the
                                    ranks and shouldered a musket, and there remained during the
                                    entire time of enlistment. And when that demand was repeated I
                                    left my family and my home, and for nine months served in the
                                    Army of the Mississippi; and now I stand before God, my country,
                                    and the world self acquitted. How stands the question here? Upon
                                    a technical quibble, growing out of my services as a private
                                    soldier and officer in the army, these Republicans undertake to
                                    oust me from my seat; and then they go out upon the street and
                                    plead that they are the only loyal people in this State-- the
                                    only defenders of the Union and the flag of our country! Shame
                                    on them, I say. And I will say farther, that I have not only
                                    seen here, but in my own District I have found more genuine
                                    sympathy in the cause of my country existing on this floor than
                                    among those men to whom I should think I ought to look for it.
                                    [Mr. Mellett desired to obtain the floor, but Mr. Murray
                                    remarked, "I expect the Senator is uneasy,"
                                    and proceeded as follows:]
                              Mr. President, I say, sir, that these are some of the influences
                                    attempted to be thrown around me and compel my votes, and
                                    because I have refused to lend myself as a mere machine to act
                                    contrary to my judgment. I say before this Senate what I know,
                                    that contrary to the judgment of a majority of my political
                                    associates, these Senators introduce resolutions day after day
                                    for the purpose of ousting me from my seat, for reasons growing
                                    out of my services to my country. If I wanted to come back to
                                    this Legislature or this seat, or to run for any other office
                                    before my people, I would not want better capital than could be
                                    made out of these disgraceful acts. I mean revolutionary acts,
                                    for it is revolutionary, and is in the same identical spirit of
                                    those traitors of the South who are attempting to secede from
                                    this Union, as these gentlemen have frequently from this
                                    Legislature. I say, sir, it is the same spirit of those
                                    rebels--it is a revolutionary spirit. [That's so!] When
                                    a leader of the Republican party in the House of Representatives
                                    undertook to admit that revolutionary measures were right, he
                                    attempted to commit the Republican party to what, sir? To the
                                    very doctrine of those traitors of the South who desired to
                                    break up this glorious Confederacy of ours. As a Republican at
                                    that time, I repudiated such doctrine, and I take this occasion
                                    to repudiate it again, sir. Secession is revolutionary, contrary
                                    to the forms of law, and is not and cannot be justified. Now,
                                    sir, I shall wait till I hear from the honorable Senator from
                                    Henry, [Mr. Mellett.]
                              Mr. MELLETT. The honorable Senator from Wells [Mr. Brown] had
                                    suggested that sixty-one days is not long enough to determine
                                    the contested seat cases. The question before the Senate is not
                                    as to whether I am entitled to this seat or not, but how much
                                    service must the Senator from Elkhart give to the democratic
                                    party to purchase his seat here? He tells us the Senator from
                                    Fayette would put a collar on his neck and call him Senator
                                    Murray, my dog." But he has allowed the Democratic
                                    party to put the collar on him--
                              Mr. MURRAY (interrupting:) I deny it. It is false, I say you are a
                                    liar when you say it, sir--a base and cowardly liar.
                              The PRESIDENT. The Senator from Elkhart will take his seat. The
                                    Senator from Henry will be kept in order. The Sergeant at Arms
                                    will tike charge of both Senators.
                              Mr. MELLETT (resuming:) That is the complication that arises. What
                                    I said in reference to this matter is a matter of history--a
                                    matter of truth. It is as well an established fact as anything
                                    that appears upon the journals of this session. Now, I sir,
                                    stated from the first that I was ready and willing for the
                                    question in regard to my seat to come up. I have no desire to
                                    retain my seat. I would not beg to have my seat here. I prefer,
                                    personally, to go home. No Senator upon this floor will say that
                                    I have not been at all times anxious to have that question
                                    settled, and it ought to have been settled.
                              Now I make another statement. The gentleman wants to know why the
                                    questions in reference to the Senators from Miami, Laporte,
                                    Shelby, and myself, have not been settled--why we are pressing
                                    his case and not ours. I say it sir, and I challenge
                                    contradiction when I say that  there is not a Senator upon this
                                    floor who has not been from the start, of the opinion that the
                                    Senator from Elkhart was not entitled to his seat. There may
                                    have been some question as to whether Mr. Baker is entitled to
                                    his seat, but not one Senator will rise and say that Senator
                                    Murray has been entitled to his seat; and yet the gentleman from
                                    Wells says he wants time to investigate the complication.
                              The very Senators who are insisting that the seats of the Senator
                                    from Shelby, and myself, ought to be declared vacant, are the
                                    very Senators begging for the Senator from Elkhart. Why do they
                                    do it? If we are not entitled to our seats on account of having
                                    an office, can they have any doubt as to the Senator from
                                    Elkhart? None under heavens. Then why beg to have the matter of
                                    the Senator from Elkhart delayed? It is but a matter of justice
                                    to the gentleman claiming that seat to have this matter settled;
                                    and it is a matter that the Democratic party on this floor owe
                                    to themselves to say they are not defering this matter. The
                                    Senator from Elkhart may serve them a better purpose than the
                                    other Senators--the young Democratic Senator from Elkhart.
                                    [Laughter in the lobby by one or two voices.]
                              The PRESIDENT: Order must be kept in the lobbies or they will be
                                    cleared.
                              Mr. MELLETT: He has never deceived me since the first two weeks I
                                    made his acquaintance. I always knew he would not do to be
                                    trusted, and I say to his Democratic brethren, don't
                                    trust him out of your sight. If you do, you are sold out just as
                                    sure as you do it. The gentleman [Mr. Murray] says he remained
                                    in his seat when the Republican Senators were bolting. If he
                                    did, there were two other Republican Senators in. A man that
                                    would beg for his seat upon this floor, begging time and
                                    again--who would face upon his constituents who elected him, and
                                    face upon the men who he says he came here to act with, for the
                                    purpose of keeping his seat, is not to be relied on and not to
                                    be trusted. I insist, we are doing injustice to him properly
                                    entitled to a seat upon this floor--Mr. Baker. The
                                          Committee on Elections have decided
                                    unanimously against the Senator from Elkhart and, I am informed,
                                    without hesitation from the start; and yet the Senator is
                                    begging and asks that this matter shall be postponed. If
                                    gentlemen see proper to postpone this case till the last day of
                                    this session it will be done over my vote and by reason of the
                                    complications Involved in the question I speak about.
                              Mr. COBB called the Senator to order. His remarks were offensive
                                    not only to the Senator from Elkhart, but to the Senate. They
                                    were unparliamentary.
                              Mr. MELLETT explained that the Senate owed it to themselves to
                                    settle this matter. The people might impugn their motives. This
                                    was all he designed to say.
                              The PRESIDENT hoped that gentlemen would discuss the question
                                    without excitement.
                              Mr. MURRAY said that the Senator from Henry could not point to a
                                    single vote on any question, when National questions were
                                    involved, where he had not recorded his vote with his party
                                    friends.
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, asked if he did not vote for the rejection
                                    of the Corinth resolution?
                              Mr. MURRAY did so vote, but there was no national question involved
                                    there. The resolutions were disrespectful to the Senate. He
                                    voted against an amendment offered to the printing office bill
                                    by the Senator from Henry, and that gentleman then called him a
                                    "d--d traitor to the Republican party." He
                                    could not resent the insult then as a man should, and perhaps he
                                    was a little warm in his reply to the imputations cast upon him
                                    this morning by the Senator from Henry.
                              Mr. MANSFIELD said that he had always been a friend of the Senator
                                    from Elkhart (Mr. Murray) but as he had attempted to make it
                                    appear that the minority here were revolutionists, it was proper
                                    for him to say that, in a caucus, when he (Mr. Mansfield) had
                                    opposed the proposi-tition to bolt, the Senator made no
                                    opposition, but asked the privilege to come into the Senate and
                                    sit there, that it might not injure his chances of keeping his
                                    seat, knowing that his presence could not help to make a
                                    quorum.
                              Mr. SHIELDS, in behalf of the Election
                                    Committee, declared that it had not been influenced by
                                    the motives alleged by the Senator from Henry (Mr. Mellett). The
                                    delay in making a report was because it was a long, litigated
                                    case.
                              Mr LANDERS demanded the previous question.
                              The demand was seconded, and the motion to postpone agreed to; by
                                    yeas 24, nays 21.
                              A report from a committee, recommending that the bill S. 88, (page
                                    118;) be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                              
                                    RELATING TO CORPORATIONS.
                                    Mr. Bearss' plank road bill, (see page 122,) was
                                          read the third time and passed; by yeas 26, nays 15.
                              
                              
                                    PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. HORD offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting
                                          Governor Morton to respond to the inquiry of the Senate in
                                          regard to the amounts of pay due the soldiers from
                                          Indiana.
                              
                              
                                    NEW 'PROPOSITION'S.
                                    Mr. HORD offered a joint resolution [16] declaring that the
                                          conscript law passed by Congress was subversive of State
                                          sovereignty, and its enforcement should be legally
                                          resisted.

                                    

                                    The following bills were introduced, read the first time, and
                                          severally passed to the second reading, to-wit:
                                    By Mr. FERGUSON, [161] to enable Courts of Common Pleas to
                                          hold special terms at any point agreed upon. (Read twice
                                          under a suspension of the rules.)
                                    By Mr. HARTLEY, [162] to amend section 14 of an act providing
                                          for the election and qualification of Justices of the
                                          Peace, approved June 9, 1852.
                                    By Mr. LANDERS, [163] to amend the 18th section of an acct
                                          for the organization and regulation of the Indiana
                                          militia, approved May 11, 1861.
                                    By Mr. DOWNEY, [164] providing for the payment of the Indiana
                                          Legion and other troops for services in defending the Ohio
                                          River border, and providing payment of other expenses of
                                          said troubles during the time of such service, (Rules
                                          suspended and read twice.)
                                    By Mr. CULVER, [165] requiring Recorders to record stamps on
                                          instruments, or otherwise indicate the fact whether the
                                          same is stamped or not, and making the record thereof, or
                                          copies of the same evidence of such facts, (Rules
                                          suspended and read twice.)
                                    By Mr. JOHNSTON, [166] to establish an Agricultural College,
                                          to teach such branches of learning as are relative to
                                          agriculture and the mechanic arts, military tactics,
                                          normal school instruction, and such other scientific and
                                          classical studies as the Board of Trustees of said College
                                          may direct, and to appropriate revenues for its endowment
                                          support and maintenance, and to provide a Board of
                                          Trustees for its management.
                                    By Mr. WRIGHT, [167] to authorize the sale of land deeded to
                                          the State by M. G. Bright, lying in Jasper and Newton
                                          counties, and prescribing the manner of making such sale,
                                          and granting pre-emption to attract settlers on said
                                          land.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    On a motion by Mr. BROWN, of Wells, his joint resolution,
                                          [15]introduced day before yesterday--authorizing the
                                          Committee to investigate the State
                                          Quarter-master's Department, to sit after the
                                          adjournment of the Senate, was read the second time.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, moved to suspend the rules and read the
                                          resolution the third time.
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to amend by making the joint committee to
                                          consist of five instead of nine. He was opposed to the
                                          entire measure, but if it was decided to have the
                                          Committee sit after the adjournment, five could do just as
                                          much work as nine. There had been no fact presented yet to
                                          the Senate that, in his opinion,would justify the
                                          authorizing the committee to sit.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, read from the report of the
                                                Congressional Committee, made to
                                          Congress by Mr. Washburn, to show the necessity of the
                                          investigation, and the importance of the matters to be
                                          investigated.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON moved to amend the amendment by making the
                                          number three, one from the Senate and two from the
                                          House.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, said that it was simply absurd to
                                          suppose that the committee could investigate matters of
                                          the importance proposed during the sitting of the Senate.
                                          It would take all their time. He thought also the number
                                          in the resolution (nine) was not too large. The affairs
                                          not only of the Quartermaster's Department, but
                                          of the Commissary Department, the Arsenal, and the
                                          purchase of arms, needed, investigation. There was much
                                          work to do. On the score of expense gentlemen need not
                                          think there would be any unnecessary expense. It is time
                                          that investigations should be had, and if corruptions
                                          existed they should be exposed.
                                    Mr. MELLETT did not think a committee of nine too large. If
                                          they attempt to examine all the vouchers it will take them
                                          two years; but if they only investigated cases of alleged
                                          fraud, it could be done in two or three weeks.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL was opposed to the appointment of the committee.
                                          The Government had already settled the claims that the
                                                Congressional Committee attended
                                          to. But if it was raised; three would be sufficient.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Cobb in the chair) said that if the
                                          committee was reduced to three the Senate would have to
                                          appoint either a Democrat or Republican, and one party in
                                          this chamber would not be represented on the committee. It
                                          was useless to deny that there was more or less party
                                          feeling in the matter, and parties should have a fair
                                          representation in the investigation. The committee should
                                          not be less than five, although he would prefer nine. If
                                          the State authorities should come out clear, their
                                          reputation would be enhanced. He gave them the benefit of
                                          the law, and believed them guiltless, and would believe
                                          them guiltless until they were proved criminal. The people
                                          demanded it, and they should be gratified.
                                    An amendment, making it two from the Senate and one from the
                                          House was adopted; by yeas 32, nays 15.
                                    The motion to suspend the rules was rejected; by yeas 16,
                                          nays 30.
                                    Mr. BLAIR made an ineffectual motion to amend by limiting the
                                          sitting to thirty days, and, to strike out all that
                                          empowers the committee to employ a Clerk and
                                          Doorkeeper.
                                    On motion of Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, the joint resolution
                                          was referred to a select committee.

                                    

                                    
                                           ARBITRARY ARRESTS.
                                          On motion by Mr. RAY, his bill 114, (see page 146) was
                                                read the third time and passed; by yeas 29, nays
                                                11.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time, and severally passed to the second
                                                reading:
                                          By Mr. FERGUSON, [168] to prevent the abandonment of
                                                plank, turnpike roads, McAdamized and gravel roads
                                                in certain cases, and declaring who shall not be
                                                liable to pay toll on such roads in certain
                                                cases.
                                          By Mr. HORD, [369] to amend section one of an act to
                                                amend section seven of an act entitled an act to fix
                                                the times of holding the Common Pleas Courts in the
                                                several counties of this State, approved March 5,
                                                1859, so as to change the time of holding said
                                                courts in Jackson and Bartholomew counties, and
                                                declaring when this act shall take effect, approved
                                                March 9, 1861.
                                    
                                    
                                          BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                                          Mr. CORBIN offered the following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, That the Doorkeeper
                                                  be directed to contract with W. H. DRAPIER, for
                                                  six hundred copies of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE;
                                                  REPORTS--being the usual number furnished for the
                                                  use of this Senate every session since 1857--the
                                                  same to be sent by express, an equal number of
                                                  copies to each Senator, as soon as possible after
                                                  the adjournment of the session--provided said Reports shall not cost more
                                                  than one dollar per copy.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          On motion by Mr. RAY, the resolution was amended by
                                                providing that one copy for aach Senator should be
                                                bound.
                                          On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL, the resolution was further
                                                amended "so as to require the copies to be
                                                furnished within 60 days from the
                                                adjournment."
                                          Mr. MOORE made an ineffectual motion--affirmative 15,
                                                negative 22--to reduce the number of copies to
                                                300.
                                          On motion by Mr. HORD, the vote agreeing to the
                                                amendment restricting the time of publication to 60
                                                days was reconsidered.
                                          The question recurring on the amendment (Mr.
                                                Claypool's)--
                                          On motion by Mr. HORD, it was laid on the table.
                                          On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL a proviso was added
                                                " that said Reports shall not be paid for
                                                till printed."
                                          The resolution, as amended, was adopted by yeas 27,
                                                nays 19--as follows:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Blair,
                                                  Bradley, Brown, of Wells, Cobb, Corbin, Davis, of
                                                  Cass, Bickinson, Douglass, Downey, Dunning,
                                                  Ferguson, Finch, Gaff, Giiford, Graves, Hartley,
                                                  Hoagland, Hord, Landers, McClurg, Marshall,
                                                  Murray, Ray, Reed, Williams, Wilson and
                                                  Wolfe--27.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bearss, Berry,
                                                  Browne, of Randolph, Campbell, Claypool, Culver,
                                                  Davis, of Parke, Fuller, Grubb, Jenkins,
                                                  Mansfield, March, Mellett, Moore, New, Pleak,
                                                  Teegarden, White and Wright--19.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          CONTESTED ELECTION CASES.
                                          Mr. DOWNEY offered a resolution allowing John H. Baker
                                                and William H. Dills, contestors for the seats of
                                                Messrs. Murray and Dickinson, the pay and mileage of
                                                Senators from the first of the session until the
                                                time their cases were decided.
                                          The resolution was referred to the Committee on
                                                Finance, with instructions to inquire into the
                                                justice of the claim, and, also, as to the claim of
                                                Alexander White, the contestor of the seat of Mr.
                                                Browne, of Randolph.
                                          On motion of Mr. BLAIR the several contested election
                                                cases were taken up.
                                          The Senate then adopted the resolutions declaring that
                                                Messrs Dickinson, Browne of Randolph, Mellett,
                                                Bearss, Ray and Teegarden were entitled to their
                                                seats.
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NIGHT SESSION.
                                    Senate bills 154, 155, and 156 (see page 167;) were read the
                                          second time and referred to appropriate committees; as
                                          were also Senate bills 17, (p. 60;) and 54, (p. 92;) which
                                          were taken from the table for that purpose.
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. CORBIN, [170] a bill repealing, sections 1, 2
                                                and 12 of an act to provide for the erection of a
                                                new prison north of the National Road, approved
                                                March 5, 1859, and an act supplemental thereto,
                                                providing for the election of officers for the
                                                Northern Prison-- prescribing some of their duties,
                                                providing for the government of said prison, and
                                                other matters properly connected therewith, and
                                                continuing in force all laws applicable thereto, and
                                                not inconsistent therewith. (Read twice,)
                                          By Mr. HORD, (171) to classify the incorporated cities
                                                of the State of Indiana,and for the better
                                                regulation of the police of the same.
                                          House bills 47, (see page 57;) 130. (p. 112;) 142, 143,
                                                (p. 121;) were read the first time; and 91, (p. 85;)
                                                and 149, (p. 122;) were read twice and appropriately
                                                referred.
                                    
                                    
                                          HONOR TO OUR SOLDIERS.
                                          The joint resolution H. R. 15 (printed on pages 77 and
                                                78 of these Reports,) was read the second time.
                                          Mr. DICKINSON moved to amend by striking out the word
                                                "Librarian" wherever it occurs,
                                                and inserting in lieu thereof the words
                                                "Adjutant General," and by
                                                striking out " $500" and inserting
                                                "300."
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB the amendment was laid on the
                                                table; by yeas 19, nays 15.
                                          Mr. MARCH moved to amend by striking out $500.
                                          Mr. COBB moved to lay the amendment on the table.
                                          The yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and
                                                taken, resulted--yeas 13, nays 20--no quorum
                                                voting.
                                    
                              
                        

                        

                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, February 27, 1863.
                              
                              The reading of the Clerk's minutes of Wednesday's
                                    and Thursday's proceedings was dispensed with.
                              Mr. HARNEY, from the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means, reported that the State was not liable for any
                                    fraudulent stocks issued, and introduced a joint resolution [34]
                                    to appoint a Commission to obtain the cancellation of the
                                    fraudulent Indiana five per cent. stocks, which was read the
                                    first time.
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    Recommending that House bills 135, (see page 115;) 194, (p.
                                          152;) 218, 222, (p. 155;) 240, (p. 163;) and 243. (p.
                                          167;) be laid on the table, were severally concurred
                                          in.
                                    Mr. PACKARD, from a majority of the Committee on
                                                Federal Relations, reported on joint
                                          resolutions 7, 13, 16, 20, (all in relation to the state
                                          of the nation, which assert the right of the President to
                                          suspend the writ of habeas corpus and justify military
                                          arrests, and pledge to the Government support in every act
                                          done to suppress the rebellion); that the majority of the
                                          committee dissent from the resolutions, and the report at
                                          length argues the question. The majority hold Chief
                                          Justice Taney's decision in Merriman's
                                          case in 1861 as binding till reversed. They also rely upon
                                          Seward's opposition to the fugitive slave law,
                                          became it denied the right of habeas corpus to the negro;
                                          what was good for the negro was certainly good for the
                                          white man.
                                    On motion of Mr. BROWN, the report was tabled, and 3,000
                                          copies ordered to be printed.
                                    Mr. GIVEN asked the favor of the House until Tuesday morning
                                          to make a report upon subjects not touched on in the
                                          report of the majority.
                              
                              
                                    EMANCIPATION OF SLAVES.
                                    Mr. PACKARD, from the Committee on Federal Relations,
                                          reported a joint resolution. [35] relative to the
                                          assumption of the President to liberate slaves in various
                                          portions of the United States, protesting against any such
                                          measure, and denying any right in the President in the
                                          regard; which was read the first time.
                                    Mr. PACKARD, from the same committee, reported an amendment
                                          to his joint 'resolution. [2] in relation to
                                          compensation for emancipated slaves, declaring that the
                                          action of the President and Congress had no warrant in the
                                          constitution, and was in bold and wicked defiance of the
                                          rights of the people, and recommending its passage. The
                                          report was concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    PAY OF SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. PACKARD, from the same committee, reported a joint
                                          resolution. [36] for payment of troops in the army in the
                                          legal and Constitutional coin of the United States; which
                                          was read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    A NATIONAL CONVENTION.
                                    Mr. BURTON offered the following, which was referred to the
                                                Committee on Federal
                                          Relations:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The time allotted
                                                  for the sitting of this Legislature is well nigh
                                                  spent; and
                                                  WHEREAS, The people are
                                                  looking anxiously for this Honorable body to adopt
                                                  some measures which look to a cessation of
                                                  hostilities, and to the establishment of an
                                                  honorable peace; and
                                                  WHEREAS, It is evident that
                                                  the demands of the people of Indiana in this
                                                  regard will not be met, unless some prompt and
                                                  immediate action is taken; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on Federal Relations
                                                  be, and are hereby, instructed to report to this
                                                  House, on Wednesday morning, March 4th, next, a
                                                  bill or joint resolution, recommending, or
                                                  embodying, in substance, the following
                                                  propositions, viz:
                                                  
                                                  That we favor the calling of a
                                                  National Convention, at as early a day as
                                                  practicable, in the city of Louisville, or at such
                                                  other place as may be designated, with a, view of
                                                  restoring peace to a divided and distracted
                                                  country.
                                                  That we memorialize Congress to act
                                                  promptly in this emergency, and to devise means by
                                                  which the wishes of the people may be expressed
                                                  through a National Convention, at the earliest
                                                  possible day.
                                                  That in the event of such a
                                                  Convention, we will instruct our delegates thereto
                                                  to oppose the prosecution of the war for another
                                                  day, or another hour, while the President adheres
                                                  to his abolition policy, and disregards the
                                                  restrictions imposed by the Federal
                                                  Constitution.
                                                  That Indiana will not willingly
                                                  furnish another man or another dollar for the
                                                  further prosecution of this wicked and unnatural
                                                  war, (if the Administration is determined to
                                                  further wage it, in spite of the wishes of the
                                                  people,) unless it is explicitly and unequivocally
                                                  understood that it shall be waged solely for the
                                                  preservation of the Constitution, and the
                                                  restoration of the Union under the Constitution,
                                                  " with all the rights, dignity and
                                                  equality of the several States
                                                  unimpaired."
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    ARBITRARY ARRESTS.
                                    Mr. Brown's resolution, granting leave to the
                                                Committee on Arbitrary Arrests to
                                          sit thirty days after adjournment, &c., (see page
                                          176,) was taken up.
                                    Mr. BROWN stated that some outrageous arrests had taken place
                                          very lately which ought to be investigated, and they
                                          wanted more time. It was an utter impossibility for the
                                          committee to report during this session.
                                    After debate an amendment authorizing three of the committee
                                          to sit was agreed to, and the original resolution was
                                          adopted--upon a division of the House, affirmative 26,
                                          negative not counted, the minority giving it up.
                              
                              
                                    AN EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH offered a resolution indefinitely postponing the
                                          militia bill H. R. 221, as its discussion and passage
                                          would inflame the public mind, and tend to bring about a
                                          state of anarchy.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Speaker : I propose briefly to discuss the
                                          merits of this bill, in connection with the resolution
                                          which I have offered indefinitely postponing it, and
                                          endeavor to point out to gentlemen constituting the
                                          majority here why the bill should bo laid aside.

                                    

                                    I conceive this bill to be a flagrant violation of the
                                          constitution of Indiana, and it seems to me, without
                                          question, that it is intended by it to divest the Governor
                                          of his rightful authority as Commander-in-Chief of the
                                          military forces of the State, to set up a provisional
                                          military Government, composed of the officers of State,
                                          who, so far as military matters are concerned, shall
                                          virtually hold and exercise the executive power, and by so
                                          doing depose our worthy chief magistrate from the position
                                          assigned him by the constitution, the law, and the voice
                                          of the people of the State.
                                    The subsequent effect may also be, to paralyze the efforts of
                                          the State in sustaining the general government, and induce
                                          a neutral position, if not a worse one, on the part of
                                          Indiana towards putting down the rebellion.
                                    Messrs. ROBERTS. BUSKIRK, (Mr. Packard in the Chair) and
                                          HANNA severally desired Mr. Griffith to point out those
                                          sections of the bill (221) which were
                                          unconstitutional.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH. Section 11 of this bill constitutes the
                                          Secretary. Auditor, and Treasurer of State, and the
                                          Attorney General a Military Board, who shall appoint the
                                          Major and Brigadier Generals of the militia of Indiana,
                                          and really commission them as such. 'Tis true the
                                          bill says, "they shall
                                                recommend to the Governor suitable persons to
                                          be appointed." but also says, "at the
                                          time of recommending a person for appointment as above,
                                          the said officers of State shall make out and deliver to
                                          such person a certificate to the effect
                                          that hi has been chosen Minor or
                                          Brigadier General, as the case may be, which certificate shall have all the force and effect of a commission, until a
                                          commission issued by the Governor has been
                                          received." If they never should be commissioned
                                          by the Governor, they are already virtually and fully
                                          commissioned by this military board, viz: the officers of
                                          State.
                                    I came here to abide by and render obedience to the
                                          constitution and the forms of law, and while the majority
                                          of this House conform thereto, I will remain in my seat,
                                          but whenever the majority, in endeavoring to carry through
                                          party measures of this and like character, seek to commit
                                          what I hold to be a gross infraction of the constitution
                                          of Indiana, I will not sit here and see it done. I would
                                          not have bolted upon the election of United States Senator
                                          if other gentlemen upon my side of the House had done so,
                                          for that question was settled at the October election.
                                          When the Democratic party sent up their Representatives to
                                          this Hall, they sent a majority, and it was their right
                                          under the constitution and within the law, to select whom
                                          they pleased to represent them--even Jesse D. Bright--
                                          even one whose loyalty was questioned; for the United
                                          States Senate has the right to judge of the qualifications
                                          ef its own members, and can receive or reject them at its
                                          own option. But now a measure is introduced which is in
                                          contravention of the constitution, and the passage of
                                          which will inflame the already overwrought public mind to
                                          the point of anarchy, bloodshed and ruin.
                                    The Constitution makes the Governor Commander-in-Chief of the
                                          military forces of the State. If Major and Brigadier
                                          Generals are to have certificates issued to them, by this
                                          Military Board, which are as valid as commissions from the
                                          Governor what, I ask, is the necessity of commissions at
                                          all ? It is absurd to pretend to bestow upon the Governor
                                          any power in this regard at all, when this Military Board
                                          of State officers are really invested with the whole, and
                                          can do as they please-- the Governor and his
                                          constitutional privileges to the contrary
                                          notwithstanding.
                                    Section 13 gives the Brigadier Generals' appointed
                                          by this Military Board power to disband a company or
                                          regiment, in easy of subordination, and take from them
                                          their arms, without assent or dissent by the Governor.
                                    Section 13 gives the Brigadier Generals' appointed
                                          by this Military Board power to disband a company or
                                          regiment, in easy of subordination, and take from them
                                          their arms, without assent or dissent by the Governor.
                                    Sections 22 and 23 take from the Governor his power in regard
                                          to the control of the arms.
                                    Section 22 makes it the duty of the Staff officers of the
                                          Major General to forthwith call, in all the arms, military
                                          accoutrements, and munitions belonging to the
                                          State," They, when called in, "shall be
                                          kept in a safe place, and in good order, by the Assistant
                                          Quarter Master General, on the Staff of the Major General,
                                          and issued by him in accordance with the directions of the
                                          officers of State."
                                    Section 23 says " the requisition of the Brigadier
                                          General for arms shall be directed to the Assistant
                                          Adjutant General on the Staff of the Major General, and
                                          shall: designate the number of arms required, and the
                                          person to whom and the place to which they are to be
                                          sent." The requisition shall be "laid
                                          before the officers of State, and if approved by a
                                          majority of them, shall be served on the Assistant Quarter
                                          Master General, who shall ship the arms designated to the
                                          person and place designated without delay."
                                    Section 30 reads, "No person holding an office under
                                          the Government of the United States shall hold one in the
                                          militia of Indiana."
                                    Now, Mr. Speaker, we find this state of facts: the Assistant
                                          Adjutant General and Assistant Quarter Master General are
                                          the creatures of the Major General, and he in turn is the
                                          creature of the Military Board, and they are all
                                          independent of and uncontrolled by the Executive power
                                          proper of the State.
                                    Now it must be plain to every gentleman upon this floor that
                                          this bill has provisions violative of the constitutional
                                          pow-  er of the
                                          Governor such as to perfectly nullify that power, and set
                                          up instead an other Executive, namely, the Military Board.
                                          I ask, would the majority have conceived any necessity for
                                          this bill and this attempted division of power had the
                                          officers of State named in this bill been of the
                                          Republican party ? I understand the gentleman from
                                          Marshall, now in the Chair, (Mr. Packard) made a speech in
                                          Plymouth, recently, and I believe he assents to the truth
                                          of the statement, and I do not desire to misrepresent him,
                                          in which he said ''they intended to have
                                          the lion (meaning Governor Mortem) shorn of his
                                          power." I believe the present bill was framed for
                                          that purpose, and I will oppose it by all legitimate
                                          means, and I ask the majority, not to attempt to press it
                                          further upon the minority of this House. Whenever the
                                          majority determines to do that which is outside of the
                                          provisions of the constitution. I will not remain and be a
                                          spectator of it. 'Tis true I have not yet left my
                                          seat; but the spirit is willing, and I am in sentiment and
                                          purpose with those members who have vacated theirs. And
                                          though they have been denounced as seceders and rebels,
                                          for resisting an attempted gross infraction of the
                                          constitution, with what consistency are those charges
                                          made, when members of the majority have frequently said
                                          here "that they would not vote another dollar or
                                          another man towards the prosecution of this war while this
                                          'infamous Abolition proclamation of the
                                          President,' (as they are pleased to term it) is
                                          in force." It has also been said by the gentleman
                                          from Jackson, (Mr. Brown): let us conform to principle,
                                          and let expediency take care of itself. So I say, sir, and
                                          the minority of this House, who are resisting this bill by
                                          what gentlemen see fit to term rebellion and secession,
                                          are governed by principle in so doing;-- by a sense of
                                          duty to their constituents, to the State, and the
                                          nation.
                                    Mr. HANNA. If the majority attempt to pass this bill will the
                                          gentleman from Lagrange secede from the House ?
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH, If it is, as I conceive, that this bill
                                          violates the constitution, I will not deem it my duty to
                                          remain here and make a quorum to aid in its passage.
                                    Mr. HANNA. What is the difference between you and the
                                          South?
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH. The Government of the United States had
                                          committed no trespass upon the rights of the seceding
                                          States--nor attempted any infringement of their
                                          Constitutional privileges. I make a difference between
                                          secession and revolution.-- When the fundamental rights of
                                          the people are invaded, and they have no redress under the
                                          constitution by which they are held together, then the
                                          right of revolution begins.
                                    Mr. Speaker. I have been informed through unofficial sources
                                          that the majority do not purpose to pass this bill. If so,
                                          now is the proper time to show it by the adoption of the
                                          resolution I have offered. I believe this bill ill-advised
                                          and ill-timed to say the least. The public mind is in a
                                          state of ferment, easily precipitated into civil war, and
                                          this feeling not only seems to influence gentlemen upon
                                          this floor, but pervades the whole mass of our people, I
                                          believe that, as true as God reigns, if this bill becomes
                                          a law, nothing can prevent civil war upon the soil of
                                          Indiana. Shall we confine ourselves to the legitimate
                                          business of this session, and lay aside these measures of
                                          discord, or shall we go beyond our proper sphere and
                                          privileges of legislation, and invoke the horrors of civil
                                          war here ?
                                    I came here, sir, elected upon an Unconditional Union ticket.
                                          I came here in one sense a no-party man, and resolving to
                                          know no party save that which gave a steady and
                                          unfaltering support to measures of the government in
                                          putting down treason and cementing the Union.
                                          'Tis true I am an intense hater of the system of
                                          slavery, for I was born and reared among it, and know its
                                          objectionable features, and I would be glad to see slavery
                                          stricken out with the left hand whilst rebellion was being
                                          crushed by the right hand of this government. But my love
                                          for the Union being paramount, if the crushing of
                                          rebellion and the restoration of the Union does not now obliterate slavery. I should
                                          gladly accept the first condition of things alone, hoping
                                          that justice would eventually bring liberty to the African
                                          race; for without it we can never have permanent peace. I
                                          therefore call upon every gentleman here who loves civil
                                          and religious liberty, who professes to revere the
                                          principles of our government and its constitution, who
                                          looks with pride upon the emblem of our nationality, who
                                          desires the supremacy of law and order instead of civil
                                          war and a divided government, to lay aside the spirit of
                                          party which seems to animate them, to lay aside these
                                          schemes fraught with anarchy, and come up as one man and
                                          one party in support of the national and State
                                          governments, without prescribing any
                                          conditions upon which we will sustain them.
                                    I know that the paramount object of the government is to
                                          restore and maintain the integrity of the Union, and in
                                          view of that purpose I can endorse any and every measure
                                          having that intention which it may adopt, the
                                          President's proclamation included. With me it is
                                          a conscientious duty. I may say here that I have been
                                          accused of having too much conscience.-- I think there is
                                          some hope of a man when he is willing to exercise it, and
                                          does not permit party to override and silence it. I thank
                                          God I think I have a regard for the monitions of
                                          conscience, and that I find one Democratic gentleman upon
                                          this floor  who is
                                          alike conscientious with myself, who voted against the
                                          engrossment of this objectionable bill--I mean the
                                          gentleman from Cass (Mr. Lasselle). I take him by the
                                          hand, and bid him God speed.
                                    In conclusion, sir, I earnestly trust that the resolution I
                                          have offered will be adopted by the majority on this
                                          floor, and the bill be indefinitely postponed, that we can
                                          then come together and go on with the legitimate business
                                          demanding our attention.
                                    The appropriation and other bills should be passed, but if
                                          the passage of his military bill is to be made a sine qua non to the carrying through
                                          of those necessary measures, I say, knowing as I do the
                                          intention of the minority of this House, that unless this
                                          bill is abandoned legislation is at an end for this
                                          session, and we had as well adjourn to our respective
                                          homes.
                                    I think gentlemen will bear me witness that my course here
                                          has been such at all times as was calculated to allay
                                          rather than promote excitement, and that, as a
                                          Representative of the people of Indiana, I felt that it
                                          became me to endeavor to unite the people of our State in
                                          these times of peril, and I say now that if by my act I
                                          could bring Indiana united to sustain our government, put
                                          down rebellion, and re-units this distracted country, I
                                          would give up all I hold dear in life, and would feel like
                                          going to the scaffold, if it became necessary, in
                                          accomplishing so desirable a condition of things.
                                    Mr. HANNA. The gentleman goes further than Alexander
                                          Stephens, of Georgia, ever went. He asserted the right of
                                          secession only when the majority said it was right. He
                                          (Mr. Hanna) had taken an oath to support the constitution.
                                          He had carefully looked at the measure of it And he
                                          allowed no man to assume a superiority over him in
                                          rendering obedience to that oath. He had introduced this
                                          bill. The Governor of Indiana, whom the gentleman
                                          contended was to be shorn of his rightful powers by this
                                          bill, was simply the Executive of Indiana. In order to
                                          create a military and naval force over which the Governor
                                          should be Commander-in-Chief, it certainly did demand
                                          legislation, under the constitution, at our hands. The
                                          last Legislature conceived it its duty to legislate in
                                          this regard. His principal objection to the law now
                                          existing was that too much power was placed in the hands
                                          of one man. He stood here opposed, as he always had been,
                                          to one-man power--to taking that power from the people
                                          which belonged to them only. He stood not here as the
                                          traducer of Governor Morton; but shall we give him the
                                          right of absolute domination over the people of the whole
                                          State? The Constitution provided expressly that the
                                          organization of the militia should be by law. He compared
                                          the clauses of the bill objected to with the clauses of
                                          the Constitution bearing on them, and made a conclusive
                                          argument in their favor. The officers of State who were
                                          made by the bill advisers of the Governor had no duties to
                                          perform but those prescribed bylaw. The Legislature could
                                          contract or expand those duties. When gentlemen talked
                                          about this bill infringing on Governor Morton's
                                          constitutional powers, they did not know what they were,
                                          talking about. Here in the Constitution was an express
                                          declaration that the officers of State should perform such
                                          duties as the Legislature enjoined upon them. Governor
                                          Morton, or any other Governor, must obey the
                                          constitutional laws put by the people's
                                          representatives upon the statute book. In the national
                                          government all appointments were made only upon
                                          consultation and advice of the President's
                                          Cabinet. For more than half a century the American people
                                          had acquiesced in the constitutionality and propriety of
                                          the procedure. You could not deceive him with reports
                                          purporting to come from the soldiers. He knew their
                                          sentiments. He had had some opportunities to know their
                                          sentiments. They were with the people of the State, and if
                                          rightful legislation was sought to be defeated by
                                          revolutionary proceedings they would unite to
                                          overwhelmingly rebuke it. He was opposed to revolution. He
                                          was opposed to any violation of law. But if threats
                                          uttered by the minority were carried out, he would ask
                                          gentlemen what state of things they would expct throughout
                                          the State? Certainly four men freshly elected by the
                                          people were to be trusted as the advisors of an accidental
                                          Governor. The hour was gone by when a minority can seek to
                                          drive a majority by secession. The Legislature had not the
                                          power to make the law constitutional unless it was so. The
                                          Supreme Court must pass upon it, and if valid, it would
                                          stand; if not, it would fall.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK moved to refer the resolution to the
                                                Judiciary Committee.
                                    Mr. HANNA said that to refer the resolution was the same
                                          thing as to refer the bill, which had passed to
                                          engrossment.
                                    Mr. HARNEY had opposed some of the features of the bill. He
                                          thought, however, that the argument that it took from the
                                          Governor any of his rightful powers, was not well founded.
                                          That he should have the sole power of distribution of arms
                                          and commissioning of officers of militia was a stretch of
                                          prerogative not granted even to the President. Heretofore
                                          the Governors had nothing to do with the distribution of
                                          arms. Under the law the County Auditors made requisitions
                                          of arms, and the Governor was bound to obey, and the
                                          County Auditors distributed the arms; This had been the
                                          law, and any opposition to it was, in his opinion,
                                          intended to give  the
                                          Governor unwarranted and unconstitutional powers. He read
                                          from the present law, introduced by the Republicans, and
                                          passed and approved by the present Governor, to show its
                                          odious features. A mere Deputy Sheriff, a man never
                                          selected by the people, might order the officers of the
                                          militia to fire upon a mob, and if they fired blank
                                          cartridges, they, the officers, were to be held answerable
                                          for punishment. A Deputy Sheriff; a man whom perhaps the
                                          people did not know, a man employed perhaps by the Sheriff
                                          a little cheaper than anybody else, could under the
                                          present law, do these things, The bill now under
                                          consideration contained no such bloody provisions.
                                    The motion to refer was agreed to.
                                    
                                          NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                          The following bills were introduced, read the first
                                                time and severally passed to the second reading:
                                          By Mr. NIBLACK, [251] amending section 11 of an act
                                                organizing the militia requiring election of
                                                regimental officers by the regiments for four years.
                                                Section 18 is amended so that arms shall be issued
                                                on a requisition of the Quartermasters, in case of
                                                invasion, approved by the Governor, Secretary of
                                                State, and Auditor.
                                          By Mr. GARVIN, [252] amending sections 83, 84, and 85
                                                of the act for the incorporation of cities.
                                          By Mr. HANNA, [253] amending section 24 of the act for
                                                opening, vacation, and change of highways.
                                          By Mr. NIBLACK. (254] touching the public arms of the
                                                State, and regulating their distribution.
                                          By Mr. LASSELLE, [255] amending section 16 of the law
                                                regulating descents.
                                          By Mr. BUSKIRK, (Mr. Howk in the Chair,) [258] for thd
                                                relief of Isaac D. Johnson.
                                    
                                    
                                          WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                          House bills, [247] for the relief of Ann Blizzard,
                                                (introduced by Mr. Shoaff, of Allen, last Saturday;)
                                                248. 249, 250, (see page 172;) and 251, (see a few
                                                lines above) were read the second time and
                                                appropriately referred.
                                          The bill S. 79, (see- page 113.) was read the first
                                                time.
                                    
                                    
                                          COMMUNICATIONS.
                                          The SPEAKER laid before the. House a communication from
                                                the President of the Board of Sinking Fund
                                                Commissioners, stating that the losses to the fund
                                                thus far are $3,283;
                                          Also, a communication, signed by many citizens,
                                                congratulating the honorable Democratic members of
                                                the General Assembly on the glorious success of the
                                                Democratic party, and making sundry sensible
                                                suggestions as to their duties;
                                          Also, a communication from Major General Rosecrans,
                                                thanking the Legislature for their resolutions
                                                adopted with regard to the battle of Stone River,
                                                and speaking at length of the duties of citizens at
                                                home with regard to soldiers in the army lighting
                                                the battles of the country;
                                          Also, a communication from citizens of the county of
                                                Monroe, with reference to the formation of societies
                                                for public discussion of the affairs of the country,
                                                in favor of an armistice and a National Convention
                                                for the restoration of the Union for legislation
                                                enforcing the 13th article of the Constitution,
                                                expressing unalterable opposition to the present
                                                "unconstitutional and Abolition"
                                                war, and denouncing, repudiating and condemning it,
                                                as pursued only for the purpose of freeing Sambo and
                                                Dinah; and insisting that Democrats had had their
                                                rights trampled on about as long as they could stand
                                                it;
                                          Also, a communication to the purpose from citizens of
                                                Rush county.
                                    
                                    
                                          LEGISLATIVE APPORTIONMENT.
                                          The bill [S. 111] apportioning the State for Senatorial
                                                and Representative purposes being read the first
                                                time--
                                          Mr. BUSKIRK (Mr. Milroy in the chair) moved to reject
                                                it.
                                          Mr. MUTZ moved to table the motion which was agreed
                                                to.
                                          Mr. NIBLACK demanded a call of the House.
                                          The House seconded the demand, the call was ordered,
                                                and the following members answered to their
                                                names:
                                          Messrs. Anderson, Baker, Byerle, Branham, Budd, Cason,
                                                Cass, Chambers, Davis, Forester, Gregg, Gregory,
                                                Hershey, Higgins, Hostetter, Hutchins, James,
                                                Johnson, Jones, Kendrick, Lamb, Leeds, Moorman,
                                                Morgan, Mustard, Newman, Noyes, O'Brien, of
                                                Hamilton, Perry, Pettibone, Roe, Stone, Tarkington,
                                                Van Buskirk and Woodruff 35.
                                          No quorum being present, the House adjourned.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, February 28, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. BROWN, of Wells, from the special committee thereon, reported a
                                    joint resolution, [17] as a substitute for joint resolution S.
                                    15. (It creates a committee of five, three from the House and
                                    two from the Senate, to sit, after adjournment, to investigate
                                    the State Quartermaster's Department, which was read
                                    the first time.
                              
                                    RAILROAD MANAGEMENT.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                          made a report recommending the passage of the bill
                                          [H.R.91] providing for compensation for stock killed, by
                                          railroads and other public conveyances.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD opposed its passage in a speech of great
                                          warmth, and its passage was advocated, with equal force by
                                          Messrs. WILLIAMS, DOWNEY, SHIELDS and COBB.
                                    The bill passed: by yeas 32, nays 8.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, presented  a memorial from the
                                          officers and men of the 19th regiment.
                                    Mr. NEW presented a memorial from the 20th regiment.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved their reference to the
                                                Committee on Federal
                                          Relations.
                                    Mr. COBB did not object to the reference. He simply asked
                                          what object was had in that reference?
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, did not anticipate a special report.
                                          It was simply a guide to that committee in any resolutions
                                          they might, hereafter present.
                                    Mr. RAY moved to amend the motion by including in the
                                          reference all similar papers. There were a number of
                                          them.-- Unfortunately the soldiers in the field labored
                                          under the delusion that the Legislature was engaged in
                                          some treasonable scheme, He did not know how or by what
                                          means this delusion had been created, but the Legislature
                                          owed it to themselves and to the army to reply in a
                                          temperate manner to these papers.
                                    Mr. COBB desired that the course indicated by the Senator
                                          from Shelby should be adopted. It was evident that
                                          influences had been used to mislead the soldiery, and he
                                          desired that they should be in possesion of the facts
                                          connected with the action of this body.
                                    Mr. MARCH did not object to the reference, but contended that
                                          the soldiers had ground to be alarmed about the course
                                          this Legislature would take. The armistice measures alone
                                          was enough, to create alarm in their minds.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Corbin in the chair) said it was due to the
                                          people of Indiana and the Democratic party to brand the
                                          insinuations contained in the memorial with the lie. Since
                                          the commencement of this session we have been insulted by
                                          memorials and communications sent to this body by men who
                                          pretend to understand that we have been engaged in
                                          treasonable practices, and still the Senator from Delaware
                                          (Mr. March) is unable to point out these treasonable
                                          practices. The Democratic party has done nothing to arouse
                                          the suspicions of this regiment, or any other regiment in
                                          the army of the United States. What has this Legislature
                                          done that it should be so charged? Is it because they have
                                          thanked General Rosecrans and the men under him for their
                                          heroic bearing at the battle of Murfreesboro ? Is it
                                          because they have thanked the Governor for his devotion to
                                          the sick and wounded soldiers of Indiana? Is that the
                                          treason of which these men speak? Is it because the
                                          Democratic side of this Chamber have voted $2.000,000 for
                                          the purpose of liquidating the indebtedness of the General
                                          Government to Indiana volunteers? Is that the treasonable
                                          conduct of which the majority of the Indiana Senate has
                                          been guilty? He would go as far as the Senator from
                                          Delaware, or any other Senator in this Chamber, tor the
                                          purpose of upholding the hands of those men who peril
                                          their lives and the happiness of their families at home
                                          for the purpose of maintaining the Constitution of the
                                          United States and the integrity of this Government.-- The
                                          minds of the soldiers have been poisoned--they are
                                          laboring under misapprehensions--their true friends are to
                                          be found in the ranks of the very men they are abusing If
                                          they knew what were the intentions and the conduct of the
                                          Indiana Legislature, you would, not see such memorials as
                                          have been presented here to this Legislature. It all
                                          proceeds from the fact that misrepresentations have been,
                                          made to them. If these treasonable practices have been
                                          carried into effect, or an attempt has been made to
                                          indulge in treasonable practices, let them be pointed
                                          out-- let public attention be drawn to it, and the men in
                                          these regiments are as capable as the same number of any
                                          other men, of judging whether a man is guilty of treason,
                                          or of disloyal or treasonable practices; but they must
                                          have the correct information given to them.
                                    Mr. REED. I cannot do justice to my own feelings and remain
                                          silent during this discussion. The memorial under
                                          consideration comes from the 20th Indiana, in whose ranks
                                          I have endeavored to serve my country by meeting her
                                          enemies upon the ensanguined battle field, under the folds
                                          of whose glorious war-worn banner my brave, patriotic boy
                                          breathed his last breath, and shed his last drop of
                                          life-blood in the defense of his county and its
                                          star-spangled emblem. When the war-worn veterans of the
                                          glorious old 20th, the bones and blood of whose fallen
                                          comrades bleach and crimson a score of hard-fought
                                          battle-fields, are attacked, either openly or by
                                          inuendoes, other may remain silent--I cannot.
                                    It is said, Mr. President, that the Indiana soldiery have
                                          been imposed upon by artful and designing demagogues,
                                          whose object is to malign the motives and purposes of the
                                          dominant party in this Legislature, and in the State, that
                                          they may draw to their support the political influence and
                                          power of the soldiers on their return from the war. It is
                                          said, sir, that the soldiers are made to believe that the
                                          Democratic members of the Indiana Legislature are
                                          disloyal, and are plotting treason against the State and
                                          government; when, in truth, they are of all men most loyal
                                          to the country and faithful to its constitution; and they
                                          propose to report an address to our soldiers in the field,
                                          undeceiving them as to the purposes of the Legislature and
                                          of their Democratic friends throughout the State. Well,
                                          sir, the soldiery may be misled, and for the good of our
                                          beloved country I most devoutly trust there may be no real
                                          foundation for their apprehensions of  bad faith on the part of
                                          the dominant party in the Legislature.
                                    But, sir, what are the charges that the soldiery make against
                                          the Legislature? They are not, sir, general charges of
                                          disloyalty, but they specify the measures which, they have
                                          reason to believe are purposed by the majority here, and
                                          which they see fit to regard as disloyal. Some of those
                                          measures are, 1st--The erection of a Military Board which
                                          is to supersede the Governor in his constitutional control
                                          of the State, thus crippling her efficiency as a war power
                                          by placing her military strength under the control of
                                          those who are opposed to the further prosecution of the
                                          war; and 2d--An armistice by which the army of the Union
                                          would be withdrawn from the rebel territory, and
                                          diplomatic negotiations instituted in place of the rifle
                                          and the sword, which must necessarily end in a reunion of
                                          the States by humiliating and disgraceful compromises
                                          with, and concession to, rebels, or a permanent disunion
                                          of the States and a recognition of the Southern
                                          Confederacy. Another is, encouraging desertions and
                                          protecting those who ignominiously deserted their comrades
                                          and the flag of their country in its time of need and in
                                          the face of the enemy.
                                    These, sir, are some of the charges made, by the brave and
                                          patriotic sons of Indiana, who are now offering their
                                          lives upon the altar of their country, against the
                                          Democracy in the Legislature and in the State. Is there no
                                          foundation for these charges? Have the soldiers been
                                          deceived? and if so who has deceived them? Is the
                                          Democracy of this Legislature and of the State in favor of
                                          stripping the Governor of his control of the militia of
                                          the State, and placing the management of military affairs
                                          in the hands of a military board who are averse to the
                                          further prosecution of the war? Sir, I need but refer
                                          Senators to the tiles of the Indiana State
                                                Sentinel and other Democratic newspapers of the
                                          State, containing reports of the proceedings of Democratic
                                          meetings for ample proof that this is a favorite scheme of
                                          the Indiana Democracy. This scheme has assumed the
                                          character of a bill, and is now pending in the other end
                                          of the capitol, where its passage could only be defeated
                                          by breaking a quorum and stopping legislation. In view of
                                          these facts, will Senators persist in saying that such
                                          purposes are not entertained by the Democracy of this
                                          Assembly--that the soldiers who believe that such
                                          intentions exist are misled into that opinion by
                                          unscrupulous and lying demagogues for mere party
                                          purposes?
                                    But the soldiers have been fraudulently induced, say
                                          Senators, to believe that the popular sentiment in this
                                          Assembly and of this State is in favor of an armistice.
                                          Sir, I have the same kind of testimony to offer in support
                                          of the correctness of this opinion of the soldiers.
                                          Democratic meetings have lately been held in the various
                                          counties of the State, and the leading sentiment of such
                                          popular assemblages has been an armistice and negotiations
                                          based upon concession and compromise, for the settlement
                                          of our national difficulties. Resolutions passed by a
                                          number of such meetings have been forwarded to this
                                          Assembly inviting its co-operation with them in forwarding
                                          the views and opinions of such meetings. Resolutions have
                                          been introduced into both branches of this Assembly
                                          adopting and endorsing the policy indicated by such
                                          meetings, and seeking to force it upon the administration
                                          at Washington as the policy; is advocated by every
                                          Democratic newspaper in the State and yet Senators will be
                                          heard saying that no such policy is proposed by the
                                          Democratic party, and that the soldiers have been
                                          shamefully imposed upon by designing Republican demagogues
                                          for party purposes.
                                    But the soldiers have been fraudulently induced, say
                                          Senators, to believe that the popular sentiment in this
                                          Assembly and of this State is in favor of an armistice.
                                          Sir, I have the same kind of testimony to offer in support
                                          of the correctness of this opinion of the soldiers.
                                          Democratic meetings have lately been held in the various
                                          counties of the State, and the leading sentiment of such
                                          popular assemblages has been an armistice and negotiations
                                          based upon concession and compromise, for the settlement
                                          of our national difficulties.-- Resolutions passed by a
                                          number of such meetings have been forwarded to this
                                          Assembly inviting its co-operation with them in forwarding
                                          the views and opinions of such meetings. Resolutions have
                                          been introduced into both branches of this Assembly
                                          adopting and endorsing the policy indicated by such
                                          meetings, and seeking to force it upon the administration
                                          at Washington as the policy; is advocated by every
                                          Democratic newspaper in the State and yet Senators will be
                                          heard saying that no such policy is proposed by the
                                          Democratic party, and that the soldiers have been
                                          shamefully imposed upon by designing Republican demagogues
                                          for party purposes.
                                    But the soldiers charge that this Democratic party is
                                          corrupting the army, promoting desertions, and harboring
                                          and protecting the dastards who have basely deserted their
                                          comrades and their country's flag in the presence
                                          of the public enemy. Sir, whatever may be said of
                                          deception upon the mind of the soldiery in reference to
                                          the project of a military board, and an armistice, surely,
                                          in this respect, it cannot be said that the soldiers in
                                          the field are imposed upon and misled by designing
                                          politicians at home. If the army is demoralized the
                                          soldiers know it, and know the cause also; and if
                                          desertions occur the soldiers know that, and the cause far
                                          better than we do at home. In that particular, sir, the
                                          soldiers have the advantage of us, and cannot be imposed
                                          upon by us.
                                    [Mr. REED spoke at length, reflecting severely upon the
                                          course pursued by certain Democratic newspapers and
                                          legislators, continuing, by consent of the Senate, for
                                          nearly double the length of time prescribed by the
                                          rules.]
                                    Mr. LANDERS was in favor of having the petitions referred,
                                          and a report made on them. They say they have been
                                          informed that certain things exist in Indiana. He wanted
                                          to know where they got their information. If Indiana is
                                          paying to send men into the army to demoralize it, the
                                          people ought to know it. They ought to know if the
                                          Governor's $100,000 contingent fund is to be
                                          expended in that way. The soldiers would not so far forget
                                          themselves as to make such charges, if they had not been
                                          misled by mischievous politicians who are trying to use
                                          the money of the people of Indiana to poison the mind of
                                          men in the army.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. The Committee on Federal
                                                Relations have had these questions before
                                          them now for 52 days, and what have they done ? We have
                                          heard no honest. 
                                          outspoken sentiment in favor of these soldiers who are
                                          risking their lives for the suppression of this rebellion.
                                          Thus far the majority here have done nothing calculated to
                                          allay the suspicion of these soldiers.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS spoke in defence of the Democratic party from
                                          the charges against them, and ably defended them, and
                                          vindicated the Democratic members of this and the last
                                          Senate against said charges.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL spoke warmly on the other side, not charging the
                                          masses of the Democratic party with treason, but
                                          contending that they were being led astray by aspiring
                                          men.
                                    Mr. COBB demand the previous question.
                                    The demand was seconded by the Senate--yeas 27, nays14--and
                                          the motion to refer was agreed to.
                              
                              
                                    SHERIFFS' SALES.
                                    Mr. HORD introduced a bill, [172] to amend section 1 of an
                                          act to amend an act entitled an act to revise, simplify
                                          and abridge the rules of practice, &c., approved
                                          June 18, 1851, which was read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    The following described bills were read the third time and
                                          finally passed:
                                    Mr. Howk's. [H. R 149 ] supplementary to an act
                                          incorporating manufacturing and mining companies; by yeas
                                          44, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Hord's. [S.23 ] amending the Justice of the
                                          Peace act so as to authorize suits in replevin at any
                                          place whore property may be found; by yeas 36, nays 2.
                                    Mr. Johnston's. [S. 78] to amend the 8th section of
                                          the act in relation to County Treasurers, so as to require
                                          such officers to retain from county orders presented the
                                          amount due by the holder for taxes, by yeas 34, nays
                                          3.
                                    Mr. Landers'. [S. 87] to punish election officers
                                          for receiving ballots of persons not entitled to vote, for
                                          abstracting or destroying ballots, for substituting
                                          ballots, and for allowing false names to be entered on
                                          poll books, or false counts to be made; by yeas 37, nays
                                          0.
                                    Mr. Davis, of Cass', [S. 138] to amend the title of
                                          an act to provide for increasing the capital stock of
                                          railroads; by yeas 38, nays 1.
                                    Senate bill 110, (see page 129,) was taken up and ordered
                                          engrossed, as was 158. (p. 168,) after being read the
                                          second time.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITION.
                                    Mr. RAY introduced a bill, [173] to amend sections six and
                                          twenty-eight of an act entitled "an act
                                          authorizing the construction of plank, McAdamized and
                                          gravel roads," approved May 12, 1852.
                                    Senate bills 167 and 168 (introduced yesterday) was real the
                                          second time and referred to appropriate committees.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
                              
                                    SATURDAY, February 28, 1863.
                              
                              The SPEAKER asked, "What is the pleasure of the
                                    House?"
                              Mr. BROWN moved to suspend the reading of the journal.
                              The motion was agreed to.
                              Mr. ATKISON moved a call of the House.
                              Mr. MILROY asked him to withdraw the motion, as it was inexpedient
                                    to press it.
                              The motion was withdrawn.
                              Mr. DONALDSON offered a resolution , that hereafter the names of
                                    all absentees without leave shall be entered upon the journal
                                    each day, and published in the newspapers recording the
                                    proceedings of this body.
                              Mr. GRIFFITH moved to table the resolution, and demanded the yeas
                                    and nays.
                              Mr. BROWN insisted that the resolution was unnecessary. The names
                                    of absentees would necessarily go on the journal, and the
                                    newspapers, without resolution, would take note of them. They
                                    ought to be so noted, in his opinion, and held up to the scorn
                                    and contempt of the world.
                              The resolution was withdrawn.
                              Mr. BROWN moved a call of the House.
                              Mr. HARNEY seconded the motion.-- The minority had left this Hall
                                    for the purpose of impeding necessary legislation, and he wanted
                                    the responsibility fixed where it belonged. Under the
                                    Constitution we had no power to act for ordinary legislation. To
                                    carry on the legislation for four or five days, and at the last
                                    hour admit the bolters, the journals not showing a quorum all
                                    the time, puts a responsibility on us for the action of the
                                    House which he did not care to assume. Hence he wished a call of
                                    the House.
                              Mr. HOLCOMB hoped that the motion for a call of the House would not
                                    be persisted in. The minority, by leaving the Hall in a body,
                                    sought to defeat measures necessary for the interests of the
                                    State.-- They alone were answerable. By their conduct they were
                                    digging their political graves. Let us remain at our posts and
                                    do our duty, Because the minority had been revolutionary we
                                    should not be idle, but should do all the business we can read
                                    bills, receive reports, and place the responsibility of failure
                                    on those who had left us without a quorum.
                              Mr. LASSELLE coincided, and said we could have a call at the close
                                    of the evening session, and place the names of the absentees on
                                    the record. He hoped the call would not be pressed now.
                              Messrs. NIBLACK and ATKISON joined Messrs. BROWN and HARNEY in
                                    demanding a call of the House.
                              Subsequently, the motion for a call of the House was withdrawn, and
                                    the House adjourned--ayes 34, noes not counted.

                              

                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. MUTZ moved a call of the House.
                                    The motion was agreed to, and the following members were
                                          ascertained to be absent without leave:
                                    Messrs. Abdill, Andorson, Baker, Branham, Budd, Byerle,
                                          Cason, Cass, Chambers, Davis, Forester, Gregg, Gregory,
                                          Hershey, Higgins, Hostetter, Hutchings, James, Johnson,
                                          Jones, Kendrick, Lamb, Leeds, Moorman, Morgan, Mustard,
                                          Newman, Noyes, O'Brien, of Hamilton, Perry,
                                          Pettibone, Roe, Stone, Tarkington, Van Buskirk and
                                          Woodruff--36.
                                    The following members ware ascertained to be absent with
                                          leave:
                                    Messrs. Abbett, Blocher, Hall, Kilgore, Lake, Marshall,
                                          Pendleton, Puett, Shoaff, of Allen, Spencer and
                                          Woollen11.
                                    Fifty-three members answered to their names, when for want of
                                          a quorum the House adjourned.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    MONDAY, March 2, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. Landers' bill, [S. 103] to amend sections 18 and 20 of
                                    the election law--providing for the numbering and enveloping of
                                    ballots cast at elections, &c., was read the third time
                                    and passed; by yeas 28, nays 14.
                              The morning hour was occupied in the consideration of reports from
                                    committees.
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. RAY, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                          reported back the bill [S. 140] to enforce the 13th
                                          article of the Constitution with amendments. The
                                          amendments were adopted,
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to amend by striking out the clause which
                                          requires Clerks of Courts to summon negroes before them to
                                          prove their claim to a residence, and supported his views
                                          by an able speech.
                                    Mr. RAY replied, defending the whole bill as being what the
                                          people demanded, and what the circumstances surrounding us
                                          required at the hands of the Legislature, to keep the
                                          State from being overrun by a degraded race.
                                    On motion by Mr. WOLFE, the amendment was laid on the table;
                                          by yeas 25, nays 18.
                                    Mr. WOLFE moved to amend by adding, "that the
                                          certificate of the Clerk of one county should be prima
                                          facia evidence in another county of the right of
                                          residence.
                                    On motion by Mr. SHIELDS, the further consideration of the
                                          bill was postponed till to-morrow.
                                    On motion by Mr. SHIELDS, it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That members of the
                                                  Senate be restricted to five minutes in debate
                                                  during the remainder of the session, unless by
                                                  unanimous consent of the Senate.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    
                                          HONOR TO OUR SOLDIERS.
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB, the joint resolution H. R. 15,
                                                (printed on pages 77 and 78 of these Reports)
                                                pending at the adjournment last night, was taken
                                                up.
                                          The pending motion being to strike out the $500
                                                compensation to the State Librarian.
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB, the motion was laid on the
                                                table; by yeas 24, nays 17.
                                          Mr. BEARSS moved to strike out Librarian end insert
                                                Adjutant General, and strike out $500, and insert
                                                $250.
                                          On motion by Mr. BROWN, of Wells, the motion was laid
                                                on the table; by yeas 27, nays 14.
                                          Mr. GRAVES moved to strike out $500, and leave the
                                                compensation to some future Legislature.
                                          On motion by Mr. BRADLEY, the motion was laid on the
                                                table.
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB, the joint resolution was read
                                                the third time and passed; by yeas 42, nays 0.
                                          Mr. NEW introduced a bill [174] to provide for taking
                                                the vote of officers and soldiers of the volunteer
                                                service in the army of the United States from this
                                                State at all legal elections for civil officers;
                                                also, providing for the counting of the ballots and
                                                certifying the return of such election, which was
                                                read the first and second time,
                                    
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD HEADING.
                                          The following described bills were read the third time
                                                and finally passed:
                                          Mr. Garvin's, [H. R.57] in relation to
                                                Government stamps being taxed as other costs; by
                                                yeas 41, nays 0.
                                          Mr. Ray's, [S. 124] in relation to working
                                                roads on a county line; by yeas 42, nays 0.
                                          Mr. Corbin's, [S. 109] authorizing County
                                                Boards to pay for work done under the three percent
                                                fund; by yeas 28, nays 10.
                                          Mr. March's, [S. 54] to take six section from
                                                Jay county, and give the same to Blackford being
                                                read--
                                          Mr. BROWN, of Wells, moved to indefinitely postpone the
                                                bill.
                                          he Senate took a recess until 7 1/2
                                                o'clock.
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NIGHT SESSION.
                                    Mr. MARCH introduced a bill, [175] to authorize the
                                          settlement of the estate of decedents out of Court.
                                    Mr. MOORE introduced a bill, [176] for the relief of Loudun,
                                          and for the conveyance of certain tracts of land therein
                                          named.
                                    These bills were read the first time.
                                    
                                          THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                          Mr. DOWNEY offered the following;
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  WHEREAS, The General
                                                  Government, aided by the loyal States, is engaged
                                                  in putting down a wicked rebellion, which was
                                                  commenced and has been continued without
                                                  justification or adequate cause;
                                                  AND WHEREAS, It is fit and
                                                  proper that the Senate should express in a
                                                  temperate but firm and unequivocal manner, the
                                                  convictions of its members in regard to the duty
                                                  of the State and its citizens in the present
                                                  crisis; therefore,
                                                  
                                                  Resolved, 1. That we
                                                  recognize to the fullest extent the duties and
                                                  obligations of allegiance, fidel  ity and loyalty to the
                                                  Federal Government and the Government of the
                                                  State, each in its proper sphere.
                                                  That any violation or alleged
                                                  violation of the Constitution of the United
                                                  States, by any of the co-ordinate departments of
                                                  the Government, while it, may be a reason for
                                                  displacing those who may be guilty thereof from
                                                  the positions of public trust which they occupy,
                                                  by an application to thy proper tribunal, or by an
                                                  appeal to the peaceful arbitrament of the ballot
                                                  box, does not release the citizen from his
                                                  obligations to support the Government in that
                                                  which constitutional and right.
                                                   That the obligations of allegiance,
                                                  at all times, but more especially in times like
                                                  these, when the Federal Government is threatened
                                                  with overthrow and destruction, require not only a
                                                  passive obedience, but an active, unceasing and
                                                  united effort to suppress rebellion, to assert and
                                                  maintain the supremacy of the Constitution, and to
                                                  enforce the laws.
                                                  That we recognize the right of any
                                                  and every citizen to oppose by writing, speaking,
                                                  and his suffrage, the measures of any party, and
                                                  to insist upon a different line of policy, whether
                                                  such party be the party in power or a party out of
                                                  power, while that opposition shall be made in
                                                  accordance with the Constitution and the laws, and
                                                  shall be unmixed with disloyalty to the
                                                  Government.
                                                   That with this right conceded and
                                                  secured to the citizen there can be no occasion or
                                                  excuse for resorting to other than peaceful,
                                                  constitutional and legal means to displace
                                                  objectionable rulers, or to correct abuses in the
                                                  administration of the Government.
                                                  That the present, as well as all
                                                  other wars prosecuted by our Government, must be
                                                  prosecuted in such manner, and for such purposes
                                                  as will be sanctioned and approved by the
                                                  sentiment of a majority of the people of the loyal
                                                  States; for as the National Executive is dependent
                                                  upon Congress for the means of carrying it on, and
                                                  the Congress is composed of men freely chosen by
                                                  the people, and .bound to carry out the will of
                                                  the people by whom they are elected, if the people
                                                  are opposed to the manner in which the war is
                                                  being prosecuted, or the objects sought to be
                                                  accomplished, the President must change that
                                                  manner, or abandon that object.
                                                  That if, therefore, the present war
                                                  is being or shall be prosecuted by the National
                                                  Executive in an improper manner or for improper
                                                  purposes, there is no occasion for extraordinary,
                                                  unconstitutional or illegal remedies. Our
                                                  Constitution and laws, when imperverted, are such
                                                  that in due time the people may apply the proper
                                                  remedy.
                                                   That we have no evidence of any
                                                  desire on the part of the Rebel Government, or of
                                                  any considerable number of the people in the Rebel
                                                  States, to return to their allegiance to the
                                                  Government of the United States, and become
                                                  obedient to its Constitution and laws, nor have we
                                                  any assurances that any advances by us toward an
                                                  adjustment of the pending difficulties would be
                                                  met by a corresponding disposition on their part,
                                                  but on the contrary their object seems to be, as
                                                  it has been from, the beginning to compel
                                                  permanent dissolution of the Union by the
                                                  recognition of the Southern Confederacy
                                                  That while this continues to be the
                                                  case, we are opposed to an armistice or cessation
                                                  of hostilities and in favor of a continued and
                                                  more vigorous prosecution of the war, not to carry
                                                  out the views of extreme men in the mere abolition
                                                  of slavery, but to put down the rebellion and
                                                  compel obedience to the Constitution and the
                                                  laws.
                                                   That as the combat on one part has
                                                  been for the support of the Constitution and the
                                                  perpetuation of the Union, against those who
                                                  sought to destroy them, we can accept no
                                                  adjustment which does not fully recognize the
                                                  accomplishment of these objects. We contend for
                                                  the supremacy of the Constitution and the
                                                  perpetuation of the Union with all the dignity,
                                                  equality, and rights of the several States
                                                  unimpaired.
                                                  That we owe a great and lasting debt
                                                  of gratitude to the brave men who have gone to the
                                                  battlefield from our heroic State, and who, by
                                                  their deeds of gallantry, have given her a
                                                  position for patriotism and devotion to the common
                                                  cause second to no other in the Union. Some of us
                                                  have induced them thus to devote themselves to
                                                  their country's cause. We will not now
                                                  repudiate our obligation to them, or stultify
                                                  ourselves by saying that thev went to accomplish
                                                  that which from the commencement was known to be
                                                  impossible, but we will continue to support and
                                                  encourage them, and if necessary will labor to
                                                  increase their numbers, and will continue the
                                                  contest, by the grace of God, till He, in His good
                                                  time, shall see fit to crown our efforts with
                                                  success.
                                                  That the idea of forming a
                                                  Northwestern Confederacy, of attaching this State
                                                  to the Rebel Confederacy, or of a reconstruction
                                                  of the Union with any of the States left out, is
                                                  only equaled in wickedness and folly by that which
                                                  would now, or at some future, but not distant day,
                                                  acknowledge the independence of the Rebel States,
                                                  or that which would refuse to reconstruct the
                                                  Union with any slave States in it, any and all of
                                                  which we repudiate denounce and condemn.
                                                  That the President of the United
                                                  States has the constitutional and legal power to
                                                  call out the militia in time of invasion,
                                                  insurrection or public danger, and he alone has
                                                  the power to decide when an emergency exists which
                                                  requires it. We therefore affirm it to be the duty
                                                  of the State and the citizen to respond to such
                                                  call, when made in accordance with the
                                                  constitution and the laws; and that any forcible
                                                  or armed opposition and resistance to such
                                                  requisition would most probably lead to collision,
                                                  bloodshed and civil war in the State.
                                                  That all attempts, by word, letter,
                                                  or publication, to render the soldier dissatisfied
                                                  with the service, or induce him to desert, and all
                                                  efforts to prevent the capture of deserters in
                                                  order to compel them to perform the service which
                                                  by their enlistment they are bound to perform, are
                                                  regarded by us as unwise, improper, and in gross
                                                  violation of law.
                                                  That we regard secret and oath bound
                                                  political combinations as at all times improper,
                                                  and especially so at the present time; and we can
                                                  but express the hope that our fellow citizens will
                                                  refrain from entering into, or continuing such
                                                  organizations if any such exist; that they will
                                                  refrain from heated and angry discussions, and by
                                                  a calm and dispassionate exercise of judgment try
                                                  to think and act together in a cause which should
                                                  be equally dear to all true patriots.
                                                  That we are opposed to any attempt
                                                  to deprive the State Executive of any part of his
                                                  constitutional powers as Commander-in-Chief of the
                                                  State militia,but we are of opinion that the
                                                  exposed condition of our southern border demands a
                                                  more efficient military organization than can be
                                                  had under the present law.
                                                  
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. DOWNEY said he did not think it necessary to make
                                                an argument in support, of the resolutions. They had
                                                been prepared without consultation with any Senator
                                                on this floor. They expressed his views and the
                                                views of his constituents. He asked the reference to
                                                the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations.
                                          They were so referred.
                                          The joint resolution [3. 17] authorizing the
                                                  Committee on the Quartermaster's
                                                  Department to sit after adjournment, was
                                                read the second time.
                                          Mr. COBB moved to amend by authorizing the committee to
                                                include the benevolent institutions.
                                           The amendment was agreed to.
                                          Mr. NEW made an ineffectual motion to amend by making
                                                the committee to consist of seven members.
                                           Mr. JOHNSTON moved to amend by making the committee
                                                consist of Senators  Williams, White and
                                                Downey, on the part of the Senate.
                                          The amendment was agreed to.
                                          Mr. CORBIN made an ineffectual motion to amend by
                                                adding the State Prison North.
                                          Mr. MANSFIELD moved that the committee be empowered to
                                                appoint a clerk at not exceeding $3 per day.
                                          The amendment was agreed to.
                                          The joint resolution, as amended, was ordered to be
                                                engrossed.
                                          On motion by Mr. MARCH it was--
                                          Ordered, That the committee commence
                                                work at the earliest day possible, and finish up the
                                                work as soon as practicable.
                                          House bills 133 (see page 112;) and 142 (p. 121;) were
                                                read the second time and referred to appropriate
                                                committees and the bill S. 147 (p. 161;) was ordered
                                                engrossed.
                                          Mr. Allen T. Fleming, Senator elect to fill the vacancy
                                                occasioned by the death of Mr. Shoulders, appeared
                                                and was sworn into office by the President of the
                                                Senate.
                                    
                                    
                                          MILITARY EXEMPTION.
                                          Mr. LANDERS from the Military
                                                  Committee, reported back, with
                                                amendments, the bill [S. 31] fixing the amount of
                                                the equivalent for exemption from military duty.
                                          The Committee amendments were agreed to.
                                          Mr. MURRAY moved to amend by adding a section, that the
                                                exempts by reason of conscientious scruples be
                                                enumerated as others liable to military duty.
                                          Mr. RAY argued against the bill entirely. The conscript
                                                law of Congress did not exempt any body, and this
                                                legislature had no power to legislate further than
                                                for the regulation of the militia within the State.
                                                He did not wish to place himself on the record as
                                                voting for a bill that would only result in
                                                complicating the question.
                                          Mr. CORBIN moved to amend by making the exemption who,
                                                and that only conscientious exempts who were drafted
                                                be liable to the penalty.
                                          On motion by Mr. BLAIR the bill and pending amendments
                                                were laid on the table for further action in full
                                                Senate.
                                    
                                    
                                          DESERTERS FROM THE ARMY.
                                          Mr. COBB offered the following, which was adopted:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  WHEREAS, Major General
                                                  Rosecrans has sent a telegraphic communication to
                                                  his Excellency Governor O. P. Morton, in regard to
                                                  deserters from the army of the United States,
                                                  which communication, the Governor has transmitted
                                                  to this Senate tor its action; therefore,
                                                  Resolved by the Senate, That
                                                  the Governor be requested to inform the Senate, at
                                                  as early a period as convenient, whether or not
                                                  the laws already in force are sufficient for the
                                                  purpose contemplated by said communication, and if
                                                  not, what legislation, if any, is necessary on the
                                                  part of this General Assembly.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          At a late hour the Senate adjourned till to morrow
                                                morning.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    MONDAY, March 2, 1863.
                              
                              A call of the House was ordered, and being taken, only two
                                    Republicans (Messrs. Griffith and Robinson) answered; the rest
                                    were Democrats, 48 in all.
                              The absentees without leave were ascertained to be as follows:
                              Messrs. Abdill, Anderson, Atkison, Baker, Byerle, Branham, Brogan,
                                    Budd, Cason, Chambers, Pavis, Forester, Gregg, Gregory, Hershey,
                                    Higgins, Hosteller, Hutchings, James, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick,
                                    Lake, Lamb, Leeds, Moorman, Morgan, Mustard, Newman, Noyes,
                                    O'Brien, of Hamilton, Perry, Pettibone, Roberts, Roe,
                                    Stone, Tarkington, Van Buskirk, and Woodruff--39.
                              On motion of Mr. BROWN, further proceedings under the call was
                                    suspended, and the House adjourned till 1 1/2 p. m.
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    A call of the House being ordered and taken, 58 members
                                          answered to their names
                                    Mr. LASSELLE offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, The following
                                                  members of the House, to wit:
                                                  Messrs. Anderson, of St Joseph, Baker, of
                                                  Noble, Branham, of Jefferson, Budd, of Farke,
                                                  Byerle, of Kosciusko, Cason, of Boone and
                                                  Hendricks, Chambers, of Watrick, Davis, of Elkhart
                                                  and Lagrange, Forester, of Laporte, Gregg, of
                                                  Hendricks, Gregory, of Warren, Hershey, of
                                                  Tippecanoe, Higgins, of Laporte, Hostetter, of
                                                  Boone, Hutchings, of Jennings, James, of Grant,
                                                  Johnson, of Morgan, Jones, of Wayne, Kendrick of
                                                  Marion, Lamb, of Switzerland and Ohio, Leeds, of
                                                  Howard, Moorman, of Randolph, Morgan, of Henry,
                                                  Mustard, of Tippecanoe, Newman, of Wayne, Noyes,
                                                  of Steuben, O'Brien, of Hamilton, Perry,
                                                  of Fayette and Union, Pettibone, of Lake, Roe, of
                                                  Jefferson, Stone, of Wabash, Tarkington, of
                                                  Marion, Van Buskirk, of Decatur, and Woodruff, of
                                                  Wayne, did, on Wednesday, the 25th ultimo, leave
                                                  this House in a body, and have not since returned
                                                  to their seats, whereby, in violation of their
                                                  constitutional obligations, they, have impeded the
                                                  course of legislation and rendered this House and
                                                  the General Assembly of the State unable to
                                                  proceed further with the business of the State and
                                                  the people; therefore,
                                                  Resolved, That the
                                                  Sergeant-at-Arms be directed by the Speaker to
                                                  summon the said delinquent members to appear
                                                  forthwith and resume their seats in this House as
                                                  such, Representatives of the people of
                                                  Indiana.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH offered an amendment indefinitely postponing the
                                          militia bill, the executive council bill and the bill
                                          reorganising the Board of Benevolent Institutions.
                                    Mr. LASSELLE rose to a point of order. The resolution was not
                                          germain to the question. But the principal ground of his
                                          objection was that as a call of the House was just had and
                                          quorum not ascertained to be present, we could do nothing
                                          further than take measures to compel the attendance of
                                          absentees, and adjourn from day to day to that end.
                                    Mr. WOLFE offered a resolution declaring that the fears of
                                          the minority that the majority purposed to trample on the
                                          rights of any officer under the Constitution, or of any
                                          portion of the people of the State, were groundless; and
                                          that secession was not peculiar to Southern citizens, but
                                          was a growth in the North, as exemplified by the action of
                                          the minority in this House.

                                    

                                    The SPEAKER pronounced the amendment and the resolution out
                                          of order. The House could do no business, acting under a
                                          call of the House, except action pertaining thereto, until
                                          the record shows a quorum.
                                    Mr. HANNA hoped that the resolution of the gentleman from
                                          Cass [Mr. Lasselle] would not pass, inasmuch as the
                                          gentleman from Jefferson [Mr. Branham.] had said that he
                                          would not be brought back here unless he came to hang
                                          Democrats. He [Mr. Hanna] being a sound Democrat, did not
                                          wish just now to be hung.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK said that he was opposed to compromising with
                                          traitors or secessionists, North or South, He was for
                                          fighting according to law first, and otherwise if it
                                          became necessary. He therefore moved that the
                                          Sergeant-at-Arms be sent at once after the
                                          delinquents.
                                    Mr. LASSELLE defended his resolution. He though that first
                                          the Sergeant-at-arms should be requested to notify them,
                                          and then if they refuse to obey, their attendance might be
                                          compelled.
                                    Mr. PRIEST opposed the resolution. These men who were
                                          seceding were making a record for themselves. Let us deal
                                          mildly but firmly with them. Let us meet her from day to
                                          day, and if the sixty-one days under the Constitution,
                                          expired without requesite legislation, theirs would be the
                                          responsipility. He feared if the Ser-geant-at-Arms was
                                          sent alter these recursants bloodshed would be
                                          precipitated.
                                    Mr. KILGORE said he had been home, and his constituents
                                          justified the minority in their course. They had
                                          authorized him to say that, if every member would resign,
                                          the people would welcome the act. Many members upon this
                                          floor did not in their canvass take the position in regard
                                          to the war that they here have taken. If they had, they
                                          would have been defeated. The gentleman from Jackson (Mr.
                                          Brown) did not dare in his canvass to take the position he
                                          assumes here.
                                    Mr. BROWN. When I was a candidate for the position I now
                                          occupy the Hon. John F. Carr was my competitor, and, to
                                          say the least about him, you must admit he is a politician
                                          of large experience. In the canvass I asked Mr. Carr
                                          whether he indorsed the Crittenden Compromise; or indorsed
                                          the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia;
                                          whether he indorsed the confiscation act; and, as soon as
                                          the President issued his emancipation proclamation, I took
                                          issue upon that and denounced it. I indorsed the
                                          Crittenden proposition and opposed the others, and
                                          directly said that I would not support the Administration
                                          in the prosecution of the war for the Abolition purpose
                                          for which the Administration was prosecuting it.
                                    Mr. KILGORE. Your people must not be very patriotic or honest
                                          in purpose.
                                    Mr. BROWN. Does the gentleman question the honesty or
                                          integrity of the people I represent?
                                    Mr. KILGORE. I must question their intelligence.
                                    Mr. BROWN. If the gentleman questions the intelligence of the
                                          noble people whom I have the honor to represent, and makes
                                          himself the exclusive judge as to their intelligence. I
                                          will make no objection. But if he calls in, question their
                                          honesty or integrity, I will hold him to the strictest,
                                          accountability for it.
                                    Mr. PUETT. I will say to the gentleman from Delaware [Mr.
                                          Kilgore] that if Governor Morton will resign, and appeal
                                          again to the people, every one of the majority on this
                                          floor will do likewise. His Excellency will then quickly
                                          see how the matter stands between the people and himself
                                          and the people and ourselves.
                                    Mr. KILGORE said that the Democrats wished Gov. Morton to
                                          resign, in order that they could send the country to the
                                          devil in the interim, as would be the result if some of
                                          their resolutions offered here, were carried out. Before
                                          Governor Morton could resign and go before the people on
                                          ten days notice, Indiana would be made the tail end of the
                                          Southern Confederacy. He looked upon the military board
                                          bill as designed to defeat the vigorous prosecution of the
                                          war. Considering the feeling of the Democratic party
                                          toward Gov. Morton, it was imprudent to put in their hands
                                          the power to cripple him. So long as the Democratic
                                          members persist in attempting to cripple the Government,
                                          he would justify bolting. Whenever you attempt to paralyze
                                          the arm of the Governor of Indiana, whenever you say to
                                          Abraham Lincoln that because of his infamous proclamation
                                          you would not support the war, you were doing all you
                                          could to defeat the crushing of this rebellion. Before we
                                          would be brought back here to support such resolutions we
                                          would wade in blood up to our knees.
                                    VOICES. "Ah! ah! ah! Does your party own all the
                                          gunpowder?"
                                    Mr. HANNA. Does not the Constitution authorize the arrest of
                                          the delinquents?
                                    Mr. KILGORE. It does.
                                    Mr. HANNA. Did you not swear to support that
                                          Constitution?
                                    Mr. KILGORE. So did you, but your measure proposes to subvert
                                          that Constitution.
                                    Mr. HANNA. I have sworn to support that Constitution and I
                                          will do it. I WILL DO IT.
                                    Mr. KILGORE. It was upon the military bill that his party
                                          friends had bolted And to defeat that bill we would
                                          continue to bolt until we were brought in here and the
                                          doors bolted. You have not passed that bill, and you never
                                          shall.
                                    Mr. HANNA denied that it took from the Governor his power as
                                          Commander-in Chief.

                                    

                                    Mr. KILGORE said it made him a technical commander in chief,
                                          but took a real power from him. It was evident to every
                                          man who had read Perkins' speech that everything
                                          that could be done to put down the Union party would be
                                          done by the tribunal presided over by that Judge. It was
                                          an outrage to talk about appealing to him. It was clearly
                                          constitutional to bolt. Several leading Democratic members
                                          had told him they did not endorse the bill, and would not
                                          vote for it. But they voted for its engrossment. He had
                                          reason to believe they would vote to pass it.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK said threats were made that they should not pass
                                          the bill, and they determined to try the mettle of the
                                          minority.
                                    Mr. KILGORE said they would never suffer the bill to pass.
                                          They had day after day in this House seen evidence of an
                                          attempt to thwart the prosecution of the war. We have been
                                          sitting here day after day listening to the propositions
                                          and measures of gentlemen until we had become convinced
                                          that their sole object was to assist the Southern Rebels
                                          to overthrow this Government. If he had been President of
                                          the United Slates he would not have issued the
                                          proclamation of emancipation, because the leaders of the
                                          Democratic party stood ready to go before the country and
                                          misrepresent it, and because the grand Army of the Union
                                          were doing their work without it. But since the
                                          proclamation had been issued he indorsed it. Yes, sir,
                                          yes, sir.
                                    Mr. HANNA made a point of order. The President's
                                          proclamation was not legitimately under debate.
                                    After a statement by The Speaker, Mr. Kilgore proceeded. He
                                          gave his reasons at length for supporting the
                                          proclamation.
                                    Mr. PACKARD opposed the resolution. Any effort under it would
                                          be futile. The State of Indiana would never send up
                                          another Such a set of men to break a quorum and defeat
                                          necepury legislation. In reply to the gentleman from
                                          Delaware [Mr. Kilgore.] he said he had told his
                                          constituents that, whenever the President turned the war
                                          into an abolition raid, he would oppose it; and showed in
                                          a masterly manner the inconsistencies of the minority, who
                                          by unconstitutional and revolutionary means, would defeat
                                          the will of the majority. He defended at length the
                                          measures proposed by the majority, and objected to by the
                                          minority. The gentleman desired to know what Governor
                                          Morton had done that we should seek to throw guards around
                                          his power? One thing Governor Norton was doing was the
                                          placing of arms in the Lands of secret political
                                          societies, to overthrow the liberties of the people He has
                                          seen citizens of this State siezed and dragged out of it
                                          without lifting a finger in their behalf. A beautiful
                                          Executive is! He has used members of the army to overawe
                                          the people in fair elections; he has seen printing offices
                                          mobbed; he has seen private residences invaded; he has
                                          seen women insulted. He, the excellent Governor, had seen
                                          all this, and had not bestirred himself in respect of the
                                          rights and liberties of the citizen. He had, too, used the
                                          money appropriated by the Democrats of the last
                                          Legislature, and used it all for his own glory. It was for
                                          these things that the Democracy wished to bring this
                                          Governor down to his proper level. The people had
                                          pronounced against Governor Morton. He wished the plan of
                                          the gentleman from Putnam [Mr. Puett] could be carried out
                                          that the Governor would resign with the rest of us. The
                                          people would send us and a Democratic Governor back in
                                          less than two weeks by a majority of 100,000. The
                                          gentleman from Delaware county might just as well leave
                                          his seat at once if he supposed the measures he opposed
                                          could not b carried and other legislation be done. The
                                          minority of this House had sought bjr all means of
                                          intimidation to overawe tht majority. But we were not to
                                          be terrified. We were not to be bullied. They send up
                                          their resolutions here from the army. He knew how it was
                                          done. They were sent up by shoulder straps. We would
                                          demand from Governor Morton and his Abolition minions the
                                          full and free expression of our rights as representatives
                                          of the people. From the commencement of the session
                                          revolution had been inaugurated by the minority. They had
                                          finally left their seats. Let them go. They were off to
                                          Madison on a big drank, he understood. The Sergeant-at
                                          Arms could not find them if he was sent after them. We
                                          shall do nothing, if the gentleman from Delaware speaks by
                                          authority, for we will press these measures. We will press them--and if rightful
                                          legislation, is defeated we will go back to our people,
                                          and appealing to them, they will teach this Executive, and
                                          the minority on this floor doing now his bidding what
                                          their duties were.
                                    Mr. BUSKIRK (Mr. Holcomb in the chair) argued in favor of the
                                          power to arrest absentees, but was opposed in. this
                                          juncture to the exercise of that power. If they come back,
                                          and a single one of the obnoxious measures is taken up,
                                          they will belt again and again. We should resort to no act
                                          which would perhaps end in civil war. He greatly feared
                                          that in a, very short time we should have nothing of a
                                          Government left except what we had in Indiana. Here we
                                          would keep a Government in its pristine strength. Whoever
                                          bolts is guilty of revolution; as guilty as the Rebels of
                                          South Carolina. If thest members had n right thus to
                                          withdraw, any State in the Union had a right to secede
                                          from the Union. If they asserted their right to leave the
                                          Legislature--they 
                                          Indorsing the right of the Rebels thereby--ought they not
                                          to favor an armistice? He denied the right of secession.
                                          He admitted the right of coercion, but denied its
                                          expediency. These gentlemen arrogated to themselves the
                                          right to decide whether a bill was constitutional or not.
                                          If the agents of the people have this right, the people
                                          themselves have the same right.
                                     Mr. BROWN spoke, in favor of the resolution. He said that
                                          these men, in violation of their oath of office, of their
                                          duty to their contituents and themselves, have, without
                                          just cause, seceded from this body. We have the
                                          constitutional right and power to compel their attendance,
                                          and let us at least attempt to do so. It is a duty we owe
                                          to ourselves and our constituents. Gentleman say let us
                                          consult policy. Principle and not policy is what is right,
                                          and actuates the true man. He who consults policy without
                                          reference to principle will never arrive at very great
                                          prominence. The gentleman From Delaware has told us that
                                          any attempt to bring back the minority to this House would
                                          end in insurrection. He tells us that were he with the
                                          seceders, and an attempt was made to compel him to return
                                          to this Home and submit to the majority passing what he
                                          calls unconstitutional aid unjust measures, he would wade
                                          in blood to his knees before he would submit. Bold, heroic
                                          man! We have been told that we dare not attempt to compel
                                          their attendance. Shall se bow down and submit to their
                                          mighty boasts? Our constituents demand that we shall
                                          protect their rights and sustain our own characters. An
                                          Abolition meeting has been held here to overawe and
                                          terrify this body, and do we submit in silence? Sir, the
                                          present Administration by its acts shows that its policy
                                          is not endorsed by the people, and it now attempts by vile
                                          despotic and arbitrary measures to compel the people to an
                                          indorsement of it. In kingdoms were the people are raised
                                          in ignorance and taught to believe that their rulers are
                                          by divine inspiration endowed with power to rule them and
                                          pronounce laws for them, such a procedure might succeed,
                                          but not in this country. Here the people are sovereigns
                                          and not subjects. We are toll that insurrection and civil
                                          war will take place. I trust and believe not. I cannot
                                          think that the minority will so far forget themselves as
                                          to attempt to resist the rightful officer of this body in
                                          the exercise of his sworn and constitutional duties. But
                                          it civil war, anarchy and desolation are to come; if the
                                          spirit of mobocracy is to be invoked; if a military
                                          despotism is to be established instead of a free
                                          government and a Constitution guaranteeing liberty to the
                                          citizens, the sooner the people know it the better. Let
                                          the Isaac be made. But woe upon him who attempts to
                                          override the Constitution and the people. When such a
                                          system is about to be inaugurated the people of the
                                          country (not your towns and cities) will rise and spunk in
                                          thunder tones, and when they speak they will speak the
                                          law. A fearful and dreadful crisis is upon us. I trust
                                          peace and order may be maintained. It is the duty of all
                                          good citizens to enjoin upon their neighbors a strict
                                          observance of the Constituion and all the laws and to obey
                                          the Consitution and all laws themselves. But it is the
                                          slave and coward who bows down with passive submission to
                                          a party in power, when that party is endeavoring to take
                                          from him his constitutional rights, and place him in a
                                          state of subjection. Let the resolution he passed. Let the
                                          Sergeant-at-Arms apprehend these successionists, and bring
                                          them before the bar of this House and show them that we
                                          know our rights, and that their cowardly threats are of no
                                          avail.
                                    Mr. WOLFE pursued the argument against the resolution He
                                          feared there was no remedy for our National or State
                                          evils.
                                    Mr. PUETT opposed the resolution. The minority had done just
                                          as the Southern Senators. He avowed in his place in the
                                          presence of the citizens here and the few members who
                                          heard him, that no man could bolt without violating the
                                          oath he had taken, and contributing to tear down our
                                          Government. The minority might use every parliamentary
                                          rule to defeat, but if they bolted, they were just as much
                                          secessionists as any member of Jeff. Davis's
                                          Government. He should remain in and about the city until
                                          this Legislature expired by constitutional limit, ready to
                                          transact the people's business. Let us stay here,
                                          standing by the Constitution and the laws doing our
                                          duty.
                                    Mr. BURTON. Mr. Speaker, I had intended to take no part in
                                          this debate, but as my course upon this floor has been
                                          reflected upon, and indirectly assailed in the discussion
                                          by the gentleman from Delaware, (Mr. Kilgore,) I feel that
                                          now is the proper time for me to vindicate that course. I
                                          will say in the first place, however, that I am opposed to
                                          adopting the resolution under discussion, with or without
                                          the proposed amendment in any shape or form. I am opposed
                                          to making any attempt whatever to compel or force those
                                          bolters or seceders to return to their duties upon this
                                          floor. I oppose it, sir, because I am now, and ever have
                                          been, opposed to the principle of coercion being exercised
                                          in a free Government like this. I am opposed to it as
                                          applied to States or to individuals representing a free
                                          people, because in either case it endangers civil liberty.
                                          Sir, when we undertook the preserve the Constitution and
                                          perpetuate the Union as our fathers made them, by the
                                          sword, we lost sight of the cardinal doctrines of our
                                          Government, and departed from the spirit of our free
                                          institutions.  So,
                                          likewise, the moment that we attempt to carry on the
                                          legislation of this General Assembly by forcing and
                                          holding any portion of the representatives of the free
                                          people of Indiana here, at the point of the bayonet, that
                                          moment we thwart the very object for which the Assembly
                                          was instituted, and depart from the fundamental principles
                                          which distinguish a free government from a monarchy. But,
                                          sir, aside from this election upon principle, we must
                                          remember that these are indeed critical times, when
                                          excitement runs high, and a decided step of this
                                          character, upon a question of doubtful policy, might
                                          possibly inaugurate a bloody revolution in Indiana; and I,
                                          for one, am opposed to inaugurating revolution. The
                                          majority upon this floor profess to love peace, and
                                          advocate it in preference to war; and I, as one of that
                                          number, will resist to the last, by my vote and my voice,
                                          any measure which might result in the unnecessary shedding
                                          of blood, unless it be a measure of legitimate
                                          legislation, absolutely demanded by the people.
                                    If the Abolitionists who have seceded from this body desire
                                          to inaugurate a revolution, let them shoulder the weighty
                                          responsibility aid take the consequences.--If revolution
                                          is forced upon we are prepared to meet it. If fight we
                                          must, let it be on the defensive, nut on the aggressive.
                                          We have yet done nothing which, in the least, justifies
                                          the minority in bolting from this House. The gentleman
                                          from Delaware, who presumes to speak for the minority upon
                                          this door, took occasion while discussing this resolution,
                                          to justify his friends in bolting, on the ground that we
                                          were attempting to pass an unconstitutional law, and were
                                          introducing and voting for resolutions here of an infamous
                                          character, such as the people did not indorse In this
                                          connection he referred particularly to certain resolutions
                                          introduced by myself. I must be permitted to depart
                                          somewhat from the question before the House to notice that
                                          part of the gentleman's speech which referred
                                          directly to me. I will say to the gentleman from Delaware
                                          that he need give himself no trouble about the resolutions
                                          that I have introduced. It was not expected that they
                                          would please him or his friends. Not at all. It was
                                          expected, however, that they would grate harshly upon
                                          Abolition ears. Sir. I did introduce, as he says, a
                                          resolution here declaring the President's
                                          Abolition proclamation as infamous. Why did I do it? I did
                                          it because I believed it to be so. And why did I believe
                                          it? I believed it because Mr. Lincoln himself, a abort
                                          time previous to thy issuing of the proclamation, declared
                                          over his own signature that he believed ho had no
                                          Constitutional right to d dare the slaves of the South
                                          free, and if he had, be thought it inexpedient to do so
                                          then, for the reason that it would tend to destroy the
                                          Union feeling in the seceded States, and drive thousands
                                          to the rebellious standard who were then loyal; and
                                          besides, it might drive from the Union army the strength
                                          and support of the border States. He declared further,
                                          that the proclamation would not liberate a single slave;
                                          and, admitting that it would set all free, what, said he,
                                          would we do with them? There is no provision to colonize
                                          them, said he, and they would necessarily be a dead weight
                                          and a heavy expense upon our already overburdened
                                          Government.
                                    That, sir, is the substance of his letter to the Chicago
                                          clergy, And a few days afterward he issued the
                                          proclamation, in spite of his conviction against its
                                          truth, its justice, its policy, and its constitutionality.
                                          Why, then, this great ado about charging the President
                                          with infamy, when, by his own admissions, he brands
                                          himself with disloyalty. Disloyalty is treason, and
                                          treason is infamous. Tell me, ye friends of the
                                          Administration, and lovers of war, bloodshed and
                                          revolution, where stands your immaculate
                                          President, according to his own showing? I sir, indorse
                                          the resolution, in spirit and in letter, and in doing so,
                                          I stand not alone. I can assure the gentleman from
                                          Delaware that the twenty two hundred Democratic voters
                                          whom I have the honor to represent upon this floor also
                                          indorse it.
                                    Mr. KILGORE. I would inquire of the gentleman whether he went
                                          before his people, and advocated from the stump the
                                          doctrines of his resolutions, and whether he opposed the
                                          further prosecution of the war?
                                    Mr. BURTON. I will answer the gentleman. I did, sir, go
                                          before my people and advocate the doctrines I now
                                          utter.--I did go before them, denouncing the Abolition
                                          policy of the President and opposing the prosecution of
                                          the war, as I believed then, as from the beginning this
                                          Union could never be restored by war, that "war
                                          was disunion, final, eternal separation." and the
                                          sooner it was stopped the better. I advocated then, as I
                                          do now, the calling of a national Convention, that the
                                          people might accomplish by peace and compromise what it
                                          was impossible to accomplish by war.
                                    Mr. BURTON I will answer to your satisfaction, sir, before I
                                          get through. I was proceeding to say, when the gentleman
                                          interrupted me, that the people desire that this unnatural
                                          war should cease; that the issue was fairly made in the
                                          last canvass whether they were willing to support a war
                                          for the abolition of slavery. They decided in thunder
                                          tones, through the 
                                          ballot-box, that they were not. And, in order that my
                                          position may be understood. I will repeat here now what I
                                          have said to my constituents time and again--here in the
                                          face of this House, and of this people, I will say now,
                                          once for all--that I am in favor of an armistice and a
                                          Peace Convention, and opposed to giving another man or
                                          another dollar for the prosecution of this war for another
                                          day or another hour while the President adheres to his
                                          Abolition policy and disregards the Constitution of the
                                          country. Is that satisfactory to the gentleman ?
                                    Mr. KILGORE. That is satisfactory.
                                    Mr. BURTON. In this position I am satisfied that the people
                                          are with me, though I do not claim to reflect the
                                          sentiments of the 'majority upon this floor. Some
                                          think me a little ultra, but, while I reflect the
                                          sentiments of the people, I can't be far wrong.
                                          These are my individual opinions, asserted upon my own
                                          responsibility. If I am wrong, it is an error of the head,
                                          and not of the heart, for I know I love my country and
                                          study her interest. The masses of the people arc far ahead
                                          of us here, and I am satisfied that if a fair and honest
                                          expression of the people of Indiana could be had to-day, a
                                          majority would indorse the resolutions which I have had
                                          the honor of submitting to this body, embodying the
                                          sentiments that I have just uttered. [Voices--
                                          "That's so."] Then, if the
                                          people are to rule in this country, and they demand a
                                          suspension of hostilities and a National Convention, with
                                          a hope of settling these difficulties without bloodshed,
                                          in God's name why not have it? Why not let the
                                          voice of the people be heard in this dark and trying hour?
                                          for "Vox Populi" is
                                                "Vox Dei." The
                                          people, and not Mr. Lincoln, furnish the means of carrying
                                          on this war, and why should not their wishes be consulted
                                          and their demands be respected? In the name of
                                          Constitutional liberty, and all that is dear to the
                                          American people, I ask, why shall they not be heard?
                                    Legislation had better cease if it has come to pass that the
                                          will of the people cannot be expressed here, through
                                          resolutions or otherwise, without causing members to bolt
                                          from this body, and revolutionize. If the wheels of
                                          legislation are to be thus blocked, to test this thing, we
                                          had better all resign our seats here and go home to the
                                          people. I, for one, would have no fears in that event, but
                                          that I would be returned here with even an increased
                                          majority, and find the minority upon this floor smaller
                                          than it now is.-- But let them bolt--I will never vote to
                                          coerce them back. We are here from day to day, and will be
                                          till our constitutional term expires, ready to do our duty
                                          in legislating for the people, and if the minority here
                                          are willing to take the responsibility of defeating all
                                          legislation, let them do so, and sustain themselves and
                                          their revolutionary course before the people if they can.
                                          We have done nothing to cause this bolting, and, so far as
                                          I am concerned, will not yield one "jot or
                                          tittle" to them, and will offer no compromise to
                                          get them to return. If nothing more is enacted here, a
                                          just and an outraged people will hold them responsible, and not us.-- Should we force them to return at this late
                                          day of the session granting that it might be done, little
                                          or nothing could be accomplished, because, forsooth, our
                                          time here is not sufficient to override the
                                          Governor's veto, which we should certainly have
                                          to meet upon every bill that is obnoxious to these
                                          Republicans.
                                    Then if nothing can be gained by resorting to force, as
                                          proposed, why should we attempt it ? The Constitution
                                          empowers us to compel the attendance of a quorum.
                                          I'll admit, though it does not make it obligatory
                                          upon us to exercise the power. It is a matter which rests
                                          within the sound discretion of his honorable body, and my
                                          judgment is, that when no good and much may result from
                                          the exercise of the power, we had better not resort to it.
                                          The people know we of the majority are here ready to
                                          transact business, and are only prevented by a factious
                                          bolting opposition, whose motto is "rule or
                                          ruin." And if human blood has yet to flow in our
                                          happy and prosperous State, which God forbid!-- the great
                                          God of nature, "who holds in the hollow of His
                                          hand" the destinies of our proud State and
                                          nation, will fix the responsibility of the damning sin
                                          upon the Abolition party, where it justly belongs. With
                                          this view of the case, I, sir, will sit here till the last
                                          day allotted, and oppose, with an approving conscience,
                                          the coercing of the Abolition seceders.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK was for sending for the bolters by the
                                          Sergeant-at-Arms, with the proper writ to arrest them. We
                                          had just as well know now as not whether these gentlemen
                                          intended to precipitate: the State into revolution on an
                                          issue so trivial as this. He was, for the purpose of
                                          treating the threats of the minority with defiance, for
                                          the adoption of strenuous measures. The day of compromise
                                          had passed with him. If we do anything, let us do iv like
                                          men, coming square up to the work. These men knew that it
                                          was their duty to be in their seats. We had no proposition
                                          to make to them. This was a contest for power in this
                                          Legislature. They (the minority) were endeavoring to undo
                                          the work the people did at the ballot-box.-- We will send
                                          writs for these gentlemen, and arrest them by due process
                                          of law.
                                    On motion by Mr. HOWK the resolution and pending amendments
                                          were laid on the table--yeas 35, nays 17.
                                    No quorum voting, the House adjourned until 9 a.m.
                                          to-morrow.
                              
                        

                        

                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, March 3, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. Corbin's bill, [S. 147] to re-organize the Benevolent
                                    Institutions of the State, was read the third time and finally
                                    passed; by yeas 20, nays 18.
                              Mr. Lowmy's bill. [S. 164] appointing an auditing
                                    committee to audit, claims for the expenses of the Indiana
                                    Legion, and for the payment of troops called out to defend the
                                    Ohio River border, passed; by yeas 42, nays 0.
                              
                                    ARMING OF NEGROES.
                                    Mr. COBB called up his joint resolution. (10) in relation to
                                          the enlistment and arming of negroes in the service of the
                                          United States.
                                    Mr. MARCH said that since the bill had been introduced the
                                          Senate of the United States had disposed of the question
                                          by reporting against the bill. He therefore thought the
                                          best way was to quietly dispose of this resolution.
                                    Mr. COBB did not desire to speak upon the joint resolution.
                                          He wished it quietly disposed of by passing it.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. In order that the colored individual
                                          may no more trouble us, I move to lay the joint resolution
                                          quietly on he table.
                                    The motion was rejected; yeas 17, nays 27.
                                    Mr. BEARSS moved to indefinitely post pone, and Mr. COBB
                                          moved to table that motion, which latter motion was agreed
                                          to; yeas 26, nays 17.
                                    Mr. DAVIS, of Cass, demanded the previous question, which was
                                          seconded-- yeas 27, nays 17--and under its operation the
                                          resolution passed; by yeas 28, nays 15.
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to amend the preamble by adding
                                          "provided that there is any bill pending before
                                          the Senate as indicated herein."
                                    Messrs. WOLFE and RAY contended that the preamble could not
                                          be amended after its passage, although the title of it
                                          could.
                                    Before the decision of the President was given the hour for
                                          the special order arrived.
                              
                              
                                    NEGRO EXCLUSION.
                                    The question being on the amendment, (Mr. Wolfe's)
                                          offered yesterday afternoon, to the bill [S. 140] to
                                          enforce the 13th article of the Constitution.--
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD assured gentlemen that a law of this kind would
                                          be received by every noble spirit in the South with
                                          contempt--they will look upon it as a piece of vandalism.
                                          The severity of the punishment is unjust, and he hoped
                                          this thing would be altered; and the bill will look more
                                          fair in the eyes of every Southern gentleman.
                                    Mr. LANDERS was well aware that the Senator and his party
                                          friends will not vote for any measure that will damage
                                          what they conceive to be the rights of the negro.
                                    Mr. MURRAY undertook to say that whenever a law is passed
                                          against the conviction and conscientious scruples of a
                                          vast majority of the people of this State, it can never be
                                          enforced; and what is the use of encumbering the statute
                                          books with such laws? This bill strikes at the fundamental
                                          principles of the Christian religion, and the duties of
                                          every Christian man growing out of that religion which we
                                          all profess. It is punishing a, man because God has made
                                          him of a different, color, and for what ? Why, for
                                          traveling in or through our State, or for getting his
                                          honest living by his own industry. He wanted to see a law
                                          passed by which negroes will be kept out of the State of
                                          Indiana; but he was not willing to violate his own
                                          conscience by voting for such a bill as this. If that part
                                          which makes these acts a felony was stricken out, he would
                                          vote for the bill.
                                    Mr. FERGUSON was anxious that this bill should be got in such
                                          a position that he could vote for it and that it might be
                                          passed. This morning and last night he examined it
                                          carefully, and he should vote to recommit it that he might
                                          go before the committee and point out some matters he
                                          would like incorporated in it. There were some
                                          circumstances connected with his county that did not exist
                                          in other counties.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL opposed the bill because it would render more
                                          difficult a reunion of the States. Senators have already
                                          voted that the negro shall not go into the army and be
                                          killed, and he was in favor of their living somewhere; and
                                          coming into the States upon terms of perfect equality. He
                                          agreed with the Justice the Peace in Randolph county, who
                                          decided that the negro was a citizen; at any rate if he
                                          had a right to live in the South, he ought to have a right
                                          to be here. He was willing to go upon terms of perfect
                                          equality with our Southern brethren upon this subject, and
                                          if the negro does demoralize society, we ought to take
                                          from our Southern brethren some of that odium. It was an
                                          ancient tenet of the Democracy that a Southern gentleman,
                                          could pass through the free States with his slaves, and
                                          this bill might interfere with that right, and thus
                                          irritate the public mind He wanted the bill recommitted to
                                          the Judiciary Committee, and that they
                                          report upon that point. He desired to stand by the
                                          Constitution.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. Would you stand by the fugitive slave law?
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL. Yes, and all the compromises of the
                                          Constitution. He would stand by the Constitution as it 18
                                          and the Union as it was, longer than ths Senator from
                                          Morgan.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. Then the gentleman will live longer.

                                    

                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL wanted the bill recommitted to the
                                                Judiciary Committee that it might
                                          there sleep the sleep of death.
                                    Mr. RAY said the gentleman had exposed the secret of the
                                          opposition. They wanted the bill re committed that it
                                          might sleep the sleep of death. If the majority want a
                                          bill on this subject they had better take this one, for at
                                          this late hour they would get no other. We were not
                                          legislating now for citizens. We were legislating to keep
                                          off a certain class of population--to prevent, them from
                                          becoming citizens. In the bill the language objected to
                                          was the language lined in the Constitution, and the Courts
                                          must decide on it as they would on any other.
                                    Mr. MARCH It is not necessary to trample upon every right and
                                          every feeling of humanity in order to carry out that
                                          Constitution. If the records of this Legislature shall
                                          ever be preserved, and this bill becomes a law, history
                                          will pronounce that it renders the State infamous, for it
                                          is the most heartless and cruel enactment ever attempted
                                          to be placed upon a statute book. It creates a police
                                          officer in every county, and though a fellow-being be
                                          pursued by the hounds of slavery, he cannot drink a cup of
                                          cold water, nor can a white man give it to him, without
                                          being liable to be prosecuted, and the officer fined if he
                                          don't do it; the decision of the Clerk of the
                                          Court to be final and further, every negro upon the soil
                                          of Indiana is presumed to be illegally upon its soil;
                                          revering every principle of evidence ever established in a
                                          civilized court. If there be necessity for passing a law
                                          to protect the soil of Indiana from the colored
                                          population, he was willing to vote for any respectable
                                          proposition of that kind.
                                    Mr MELLET. If this bill was for punishing any party likely to
                                          be guilty of any crime. I would not oppose it. Since the
                                          adoption of the Constitution negroes and mulattoes have
                                          been coming into State and going out of it, and the people
                                          have not clamored for a more stringent law. I have not
                                          heard a single demand in Eastern Indiana that there should
                                          be any more stringent law passed upon this subject.
                                     Mr. RAY, (in his seat.) The gentleman has not been a reader
                                          of Democratic newspapers.
                                    Mr. MELLETT. There is but one printed in Eastern Indiana, and
                                          I seldom get hold of it. The Senator from Shelby (Mr. Hay)
                                          has stealthily set a trap, which he induced men to run
                                          into, and by which they are seat to the Penitentiary.
                                    Mr. RAY, (soto voce.) The bill follows the
                                          Constitution in this.
                                    Mr. MELLETT. But the Constitution does not send them to the
                                          Penitentiary.
                                    Mr. RAY. (in his seat). The bill enforces the constitutional
                                          provision by penalties; that is all.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY. I am not satisfied with the provisions of this
                                          bill. I intend to vote for a bill on this subject which
                                          will be reasonable in its provisions, if I can get an
                                          opportunity to do so, but I do not wish to vote for or
                                          against this bill in its present shape under the
                                          operations of the previous question. This bill can be
                                          recommitted to the committee, amended, reported back to
                                          the Senate this afternoon, and then passed, and I
                                          don't sea any reason why Senators should insist
                                          upon bringing the Senate to a vote upon it when it is so
                                          far from being satisfactory. I think the arguments of some
                                          Senators ought to bo addressed to an amendment of the
                                          Constitution instead of to this bill.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Williams in the Chair). I would be glad for
                                          this bill to be re-committed, and I am sorry there is as
                                          much feeling as there is about it. I have not as much hope
                                          that some Senators will vote for this bill as I ought to
                                          have. I am as much opposed to the immigration of negroes
                                          as any Senator, and desire to see them excluded from this
                                          State. This is a measure of great importance to the people
                                          of the State. It is proper that we should exclude them.
                                          The war is calculated to cause an increased colored
                                          emigration to the Northern States, and I do not want to be
                                          troubled with slavery, nor with any more negroes. At the
                                          same time there are some provisions in this bill I would
                                          like to see amended. I think the evidence of the colored
                                          man should be received in the absence of the white man,
                                          for if we were to exclude his testimony altogether, it
                                          might be out of his power to prove certain things, when in
                                          truth and fact he ought not to be punished. The people in
                                          my section demand such a measure, and I believe a majority
                                          of the people are in favor of preventing free negroes from
                                          emigrating and settling amongst us. The Senator from
                                          Fayette (Mr. Claypool) hit me exactly this morning. I am
                                          wiling that a slaveholder should pass through this State
                                          with his slaves to a State where slavery is recognized,
                                          for I do not feel that we have any right to interfere with
                                          him in his passage through our State. And if we had a
                                          watering place in Indiana, I am willing to see the master
                                          come to that resort with a sufficient number of servants
                                          to-wait upon him; so they don't come with the
                                          intention of residing. It is not necessary to say anything
                                          upon that subject, but, in a word, I am willing where
                                          slavery lawfully exists that a man shall enjoy it
                                          temporarily in a free State.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL, (interrupting). I would ask the Senator if,
                                          under the provisions of this bill, a slaveholder should
                                          come into our State and bring his darkey, whether the
                                          darkey would not be liable to the provisions of this
                                          bill?
                                    Mr. DUNNING. I would not pretend to say. I know I would be
                                          glad to see some  of
                                          my old Carolina friends and acquaintances. I would give
                                          their negro to sleep and eat as good as I have, but he
                                          should never sit down and eat with me at the same table,
                                          so help me God; and yet I would walk up to a negro and
                                          give him as a hearty a shake of the hand as I could
                                          Governor of a State. But this is a mere personal matter,
                                          sir.
                                    On motion by Mr. BRADLEY, the bill and pending amendment were
                                          referred to a select committee, consisting of Messrs. Ray,
                                          March, Ferguson, White and Downey. 
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    Mr. COBB called up a bill [S. 106] appropriating $2,000,000
                                          for advance pay to Indiana soldiers, and it was passed; by
                                          yeas 42, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Hord's bill [S. 121] providing for paying
                                          parties out of the Swamp Land Fund the amounts paid by
                                          them for lands when they have failed to receive titles for
                                          the same, was passed; by yeas 43, nays 0.
                                    The bill S. 108 (see page 128) was ordered engrossed; S 176
                                          introduced yesterday was read the second time and
                                          referred, and joint resolution S. 8 (p. 113) was laid on
                                          the table.
                                    Mr. Douglass' bill [S. 137] giving additional powers
                                          to County Surveyors, was passed; by yeas 41, nays 0.
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    Mr. WOLFE introduced a bill. [177] to divide the State into
                                          eleven Congressional Districts.
                                    Mr. DICKINSON introduced a bill [17] to repeal the 2d, 3d,
                                          4th, 5th, and 7th clauses mentioned in the 7th section of
                                          an act regulating the granting of divorces, approved May
                                          13, 1852, and to provide or the separation of married
                                          persons and their holding property.
                                    These bills were read the first time.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Reports from committees recommending that Senate bills 17
                                          (see page 60) and 95 (p. 122) be laid on the table, were
                                          concurred in.
                                    
                                          BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                          Mr. WILLIAMS called up the bill [H. R. 66] to amend the
                                                act incorporating the Walsh Navigation Company,
                                                which was read the third time and passed; by yeas
                                                38, nays 0.
                                          Mr. DOUGLASS called up the bill [S. 150] to amend
                                                section 19 of the act fixing the time of holding
                                                Common Pleas Courts and it was passed; by yeas 36,
                                                nays 0.
                                          Mr. CORBIN called up his bill, [S 170] to repeal
                                                sections 1,7,9 and 12 of the act for the government
                                                of the State Prison North &c., and it was
                                                passed; by yeas 36 nays.
                                          Mr. FERGUSON called up his bill. [146], granting the
                                                use of the Jeffersonville Prison to the United
                                                States for the confinement of prisoners, and
                                                forbidding the Prison North to receive such
                                                prisoners and it was passed; by yeas 36, nays 2.
                                          Mr. LANDERS called up his bill [S. 141] to amend the
                                                election laws, and it was passed: by yeas 36, nays
                                                4. Mr. Dickinson's bill [S. 48] to create
                                                the 14th Judicial Circuit, was passed; by yeas 32,
                                                nays 12.
                                          Mr. WRIGHT called up the bill, [H. R. 117] in relation
                                                to the school lands in the county of Newton, which
                                                was passed; by yeas 45, nays 0.
                                    
                                    
                                          NEGRO EXCLUSION.
                                          Mr. RAY, from the select committee thereon made a
                                                report recommending the passage of his bill [140]
                                                with amendment.
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to amend so that negroes can stay
                                                six months in the State before being liable to
                                                prosecution under this act.
                                          On motion by Mr. MANSFIELD, the amendment was laid on
                                                the table; yeas 33, nays 13.
                                          Mr. RAY demanded the previous question, which the
                                                Senate seconded, and under its operation the
                                                amendments were adopted as recommended by the
                                                committee.
                                          Mr. WOLFE asked what had become of his amendment.
                                          Mr. RAY considered it was included in the report of the
                                                Committee.
                                          After a discussion on matters of fact in relation to
                                                the action in the committee room, and the condition
                                                of the bill and amendments. Mr. Wolfe's
                                                amendment was adopted yeas 31, nays 17 and the bill
                                                was ordered to be engrossed.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 1863.
                              
                              The SPEAKER decided as to the power of the House. It was a doubtful
                                    question when the House adjourns on a call which shows no quorum
                                    as to the status of the House at the next session. But, after
                                    deliberation and consultation, he believed the presumption would
                                    be that there was a quorum at the next session. The House,
                                    therefore, would proceed to receive reports from the
                                          Committee on Claims, to enable the
                                          Committee on Ways and Means to perfect
                                    their business, messages from the Senate, from the Governor, and
                                    transact all other business not requiring a call of the yeas and
                                    nays.
                              Mr. HANNA inquired if this ruling would not conflict with the
                                    action of the House with regard to the Governor's
                                    message?
                              The SPEAKER decided that it would not.
                              
                                    BORROWERS FROM THE SINKING FUND.
                                    A report from a committee recommending that the bill H.R.136,
                                          (see page 115) be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                              

                              

                              
                                    MOBBING PAINTING OFFICES.
                                    Mr. HANNA, from a select committee, reported a resolution,
                                          which was adopted, directing incorporation in the specific
                                          appropriation bill of $2.500 to Grafton F. Cookerly, of
                                          Terre Haute, and $500 to Calvin Jones, of Rockport, for
                                          printing offices destroyed by mobs.
                              
                              
                                    THE BOLTING MEMBERS.
                                    Mr. KILGORE asked leave of absence for Messrs. Griffith and
                                          Cass until tomorrow noon, that they might visit Madison to
                                          see if terms could not be made with the bolting members,
                                          who were understood to be in that city.
                                    Mr. HANNA opposed the request. He was for making no terms
                                          with those gentle-tlemen. They knew their duty. Let them
                                          return and conduct themselves as honorable gentlemen
                                          should. The majority would make no compromise with them.
                                          For the Republican gentlemen who had remained on this
                                          floor, obedient to their oaths, he had the highest
                                          respect, but as for the Secessionists, the majority defied
                                          them--THEY DEFIED THEM.
                                    Mr. PUETT was opposed to adopting a resolution which would
                                          authorize any members to go with terms of compromise to
                                          men who were standing out in violation of their oaths. Let
                                          us remain here, do our duty, and upon the factious
                                          minority would rest the responsibility.
                                    Mr. MASON followed in a like argument. Were it not for the
                                          revolutionary state of affairs, the sentiment was to bring
                                          these men back by force. He entered his protest most
                                          emphatically against granting any leave of absence for the
                                          purpose of attempting to compromise with them. The
                                          majority should stand upon their rights as representatives
                                          of a free people.
                                    Mr. PACKARD said there was a powerful outside pressure
                                          brought to bear upon these seceders. Prominent Republicans
                                          Governor Williams among the number had told them that
                                          these gentlemen would come back. He (Mr. Packard.) wanted
                                          to see them come back, but not through any compromise on
                                          the part of the majority. He indorsed the sentiment of Mr.
                                          Hanna: if they would come back and do their duty they
                                          would be treated as honorable gentlemen.
                                    Mr. CASS said the minority would never come back so long as
                                          the militia bill was pending. They never would.
                                    Mr. HANNA. Let them stay away then.
                                    Mr. BROWN. Are you not pledged to bolt on the bill with
                                          regard to arbitrary arrests ?
                                    Mr. CASS. No, sir.
                                    Mr. BROWN. You know you are.
                                    The SPEAKER. Order, gentlemen, order.
                                    Mr. KILGORE. It might just as well be understood, once for
                                          all, that so long as the military bill was before the
                                          House, the minority would never come back. If it was
                                          determined to persist in that measure, a large sum of
                                          money could be saved to the people of Indiana by
                                          adjourning at once. While that bill was pending, no
                                          appropriation or any other bills should be passed.
                                    Mr. PUETT wanted to know, if three men, of high legal
                                          attainments, who were not Democrats, men so high in public
                                          esteem that all parties respected them, were chosen, to
                                          whom the military bill should be submitted, and they
                                          pronounced it constitutional and a proper matter of
                                          legislation, would the minority then come back?
                                    Mr. KILGORE. No, sir! we will never come back to vote on that
                                          bill. And he would bolt, not only on I hat bill, but upon
                                          any other bill that his party said he should bolt
                                          upon.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB. It is of no use, then, to trifle with such
                                          men.
                                    Mr. PUETT named Messrs. Blythe, Evansville, McDonald, of
                                          Indianapolis and Griswold, of Terre Haute, as gentlemen to
                                          whom the bill might be submitted
                                    Mr. KILGORE. They are all very clever gentlemen, sir, but it
                                          makes no difference.
                                    Messrs. PRIEST, NIBLACK and others followed, declaring that
                                          no compromise would be made with the minority. A large
                                          portion of the minority intended no vote upon other
                                          measures than the militia bill. He was in favor of letting
                                          these gentlemen come back, of course, but he wanted them
                                          to sneak back just as they had sneaked away. If
                                          unconditional submission was good upon one side, it was
                                          good on the other. We, the majority would remain here,
                                          ready to do our do our We were peace men when a proper
                                          spirit was shown by secessionists for peace. He moved to
                                          table the motion asking leave absence for the purpose
                                          indicated.
                                    The motion was agreed to.
                                    A call of the House showed 59 members present.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, March 4, 1863.
                              
                              The bill S. 177 (introduced yesterday,) was read the second time.
                                    The militia bill S. 163 was taken up and referred a select
                                    committee.
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    Mr. Reed's bill, [S. 156] to amend law defining the
                                          duties of County Treasurer, so as to require that officer
                                          to deduct from all county orders presented amount of taxes
                                          due from the holder read the third time and passed; by
                                          yeas 37, nays 11.
                                    Mr. March's bill, [S. 54] to take six sections from
                                          Jay county and give the same to Blackford, was called up,
                                          the pending motion being to indefinitely postpone.

                                    

                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, as the Representative from Jay county,
                                          spoke urgently in favor of postponement of the bill.
                                    The motion to postpone was voted down.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, then endeavored to get it referred to a
                                          special committee, which motion also failed, and the bill
                                          passed, by yeas 35; nays 15.
                                    Mr. GARVIN's bill [H. R. 142] to amend the practice
                                          in reference to liens on water craft passed; by yeas 43,
                                          nays 0.
                                     Mr. McGauchey's bill. [H.R.78] to enable other than
                                          corporations to reclaim waste lands was passed; by yeas
                                          38, nays 4.
                              
                              
                                    NEW YORK AND INDIANA.
                                    Mr. COBB Chairman of the Committee on Federal
                                                Relations, reported back the memorial from
                                          the House to the Governor and Legislature of New York,
                                          recommending its passage.
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to amend by striking out that portion of the
                                          memorial congratulation the people of New York upon the
                                          election of Governor Seymour. He said that if the object
                                          of the memorial was to secure commercial advantages, it
                                          was improper and in bad taste to insert anything of a
                                          partisan character. He thought that portion would be
                                          distasteful to the majority of the New York Legislature,
                                          which was what is termed Union.
                                    Mr. COBB said that was the only thing the critical gentleman
                                          from Delaware (Mr. March) could find objectionable in the
                                          memorial. He hoped it would pass just as it came from the
                                          House. All admitted the correctness of its statements and
                                          to amend it now would kill it.
                                    On motion by Mr. COBB, the amendment was laid on the table:
                                          by yeas 29, nays 17.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved to amend by congratulating the
                                          people of New York on the ministrations of Henry Ward
                                          Beecher, and the publication of the New York Tribune. He intended to withdraw the
                                          amendment, but proposed it to express his views on the
                                          memorial. He considered it in bad taste to introduce
                                          political matter into a paper asking the Legislature to
                                          reduce the rate of tolls or of freights on their great
                                          lines of railroads. He presumed that the New York
                                          Legislature--the parties in it--were as partisan as
                                          parties here.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON moved to amend the amendment by making it read
                                          the State of the New York was dishonored by the
                                          ministrations of Henry Ward Beecher.
                                    On motion by Mr. COBB, the amendment was laid on the
                                          table.
                                    Mr. MARCH moved to amend by congratulating the people of New
                                          York on the election of an unconditional Union Democrat as
                                          Speaker of the House of Representatives.
                                    Mr. COBB demanded the previous question, which was
                                          sustained--yeas 31, nays 15 and under its operation the
                                          amendment was rejected.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, moved to re commit with instructions
                                          to so amend the memorial that it shall contain nothing of
                                          a political character, and also to amend by
                                          "assuring the State of New York that Indiana is
                                          now, as she ever has been, for the suppression of the
                                          existing rebellion, and the restoration of the Union upon
                                          the basis of the Constitution, and that to that end she
                                          pledges her entire resources of men and money, hoping that
                                          the loyal men of New York will cordially unite with her in
                                          this patriotic and laudable purpose."
                                    Mr. COBB demanded the previous question, which was sustained;
                                          the motion to recommit was rejected--yeas 18, nays 27--and
                                          the joint resolution passed; yeas 30, nays 14.
                                    A committee report recommending that the bill S. 136 (see
                                          page 152,) be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. BRADLEY called up the bill [S. 108] in relation to the
                                          acceptance of a grant of land from the United States for
                                          the establishment of an Agricultural College. (The bond of
                                          the Commissioner created by the act was fixed at $100,000,
                                          and the salary $500 per annum, and a commission on the
                                          proceeds of the sales of 1 per cent., but in no case to
                                          exceed $1,200 per annum.) The bill passed; by yeas 43,
                                          nays 0.
                                    Mr. COBB called up Mr. Garvin's bill, [H.R.147] to
                                          extend liens on water craft to include wharf boats and
                                          floating warehouses, and it was passed; by yeas 44, nays
                                          1.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY called up Mr. Roberts' bill [H.R.110] to
                                          amend the act for the regulation of weights and measures;
                                          (The bill makes the standard bushel of coal to correspond
                                          with the Pennsylvania and Ohio standards;) and it was
                                          passed; by yeas 42, nays 2.
                                    
                                          NEGRO EXCLUSION BILL.
                                          Mr. LANDERS called up the bill S. 140, to enforce the
                                                13th article of the Constitution.
                                          Mr. WOLFE moved to re-commit to a special committee of
                                                three, with instructions to strike out all that
                                                enables the negro to testify in his own behalf.
                                          Mr. MARCH moved to amend by giving the right of appeal
                                                from the Clerk to the Common Pleas or Circuit
                                                Courts.
                                          Mr. LANDERS made an ineffectual motion--yeas 17, nays
                                                29--to lay on the table.
                                          Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Williams in the Chair). I desire to
                                                ask whether, by the provisions of that bill, the
                                                negro is rendered a competent witness in favor of
                                                himself?
                                          Mr. WOLFE. Not directly, but indirectly.

                                          

                                          Mr. DUNNING. When he is sworn by the Clerk of the Court
                                                to answer whether he has properly registered
                                                himself; that is the only point in which I desire to
                                                see him made a witness. Notwithstanding I have as
                                                little love for the negro as any other gentleman on
                                                this floor, I desire to do justice to all.
                                          Mr. WOLFE. It does not only permit him to testify as to
                                                whether he has registered, but whether he has been a
                                                resident of the State.
                                          Mr. DUNNING. Well, sir, if when the negro is called
                                                upon to testify, the Clerk of this Court has not got
                                                sense enough to ascertain whether that negro is
                                                telling the truth or no, I do not know but what the
                                                negro ought to have the right to a certificate. I do
                                                not desire to see the negro made a witness upon the
                                                trial of an indictment against him, nor upon the
                                                trial of any criminal prosecution; but as to the
                                                fact whether he was a resident of the State at the
                                                time of the adoption of the Constitution I am
                                                willing he should testify; and I am willing, sir,
                                                that it should be conclusive as against the man who
                                                employs him. This I say while I have not a drop of
                                                Abolition blood in me, nor a sentiment that beats in
                                                unison with the doctrine of making the negro my
                                                equal, or the equal of any white man on the face of
                                                God's green earth. What were the purposes
                                                of the Almighty in making some men black is not for
                                                me to know; but I do not want to treat him as if he
                                                were a brute, or as if he had no feeling. I do not
                                                wish to treat him as if he had no rights other than
                                                the rights that might be claimed by a horse. But, as
                                                has been said, we may go too far in this matter,
                                                sir. I shall not be governed in my vote by any
                                                question of expediency as to whether it is policy to
                                                vote to keep him out. I go for carrying out the
                                                provisions for the Constitution of the State of
                                                Indiana, which as received the sanction of over
                                                90,000 free voters in this State. If it operates
                                                oppressively upon the black man it is the fault of
                                                those who framed the Constitution, an there has
                                                never been offered any provisions in the General
                                                Assembly for the purpose of changing this feature of
                                                that Constitution. No, sir, this anxiety has been
                                                manifested only since this war has been inaugurated.
                                                I say there are good reasons to make stringent laws
                                                now. I want to give the negro what will be a
                                                protection against the cruel features of the bill;
                                                and when I have placed myself right upon the record,
                                                if the wisdom of the Senate shall deem that the
                                                measure should be stricken out, I shall
                                                nevertheless, vote for the bill. I never want to see
                                                the face of the negro unless I know that negro has a
                                                master or a mistress; and I am opposed to the
                                                emigration of negroes or contrabands in this State
                                                He was anxious to see a bill passed on the subject
                                                that would be sufficiently stringent to carry out
                                                the views of the framers of the Constitution, and he
                                                thought the bill without the amendment would effect
                                                that end.
                                          Mr. RAY thought that there was a misapprehension in
                                                regard to the testimony of the negro. It only gave
                                                him the right to testify, leaving the credibility to
                                                the Clerk of the Court. Parties interested were not
                                                deprived of the right to offer testimony to
                                                contradict it.
                                          The motion to re-commit was rejected--yeas 14, nays
                                                32.
                                          The amendment was also rejected--yeas 19, nays 28.
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL said that the law seemed to be modeled
                                                after the dog law, and in order to make it
                                                assimilate nearer that famous law, he would move to
                                                recommit with instructions to amend so as to provide
                                                "that it shall be lawful to kill any such
                                                negro or mulatto found in this State after the first
                                                day of July, A.D. 1853 who shall not be licensed
                                                under the provisions of this act."
                                          The motion was rejected--yeas 10, nays 35, refusing to
                                                vote 2.
                                          The bill then failed for want of a constitutional
                                                majority; yeas 24, nays 23.
                                    
                                    
                                          FINAL ADJOURNMENT.
                                          Mr. COBB introduced a concurrent resolution declaring
                                                that a factitous minority in the House of
                                                Representatives had revolutionzed, and left the
                                                General Assembly in such condition that no
                                                legislation could be transacted; that there was no
                                                hope of the minority of that body returning and,
                                                therefore, that the General Assembly adjourn sine die, on Thursday, March 5th, at
                                                10 o'clock a.m.
                                          Mr. GRAVES. I am in favor of adjourning, but I do not
                                                like the preamble. I am not disposed to stand in
                                                judgment upon others, who, like myself, have taken
                                                an oath to support the Constitution and discharge
                                                their duties faithfully. For the simple resolution,
                                                without the preamble, I am prepared to vote.
                                          Mr. COBB. That resolution states nothing but facts. It
                                                states that the minority are revolutionary. They
                                                have been absent from their seats seven days: and if
                                                that is not revolution I do not know what is. I was
                                                disposed on Monday to introduce this resolution;
                                                indeed I thought of doing it on Saturday, but I
                                                hoped the absconding members of the House
                                                Representatives would return to their seats. I have
                                                now lost all hope in regard to them. I understand
                                                they have determined not to come back, and I am in
                                                favor of an adjournment. I believe it is our duty to
                                                adjourn. I believe we ought to have adjourned before
                                                now when the minority in the House broke a quorum
                                                and left the city of Indianapolis, thereby saying to
                                                this Legislature and to the world that they would
                                                not act in conformity with the law  under their oaths. Sir,
                                                they have sent certain propositions to the House,
                                                but where are they to receive an answer They are not
                                                in the city; they have gone, we do not know where.
                                                They may be at home: in the State of Kentucky;
                                                Illinois, or Ohio. As far as the constitutional
                                                provision is concerned. I have not the least doubt
                                                but that the House has a right to adjourn sine die. That provision of the
                                                Constitution which says they may adjourn from day to
                                                day, and send for absentees, has no reference to
                                                lessening their power to adjourn sine
                                                  die, but it is for the purpose of increasing
                                                their power and enable them to continue in session
                                                and force the attendance of members. I hope this
                                                resolution will be carried. It states nothing but
                                                facts, and those facts should be placed upon the
                                                record.
                                          Mr. BROWN of Wells. While I am ready to admit the
                                                facts, I do not come to the same conclusion with the
                                                Senator who has preceded me. There is a great
                                                responsibility attached to this measure, and we
                                                should consider well what action we should take in
                                                this matter, before we taken any. The minority in
                                                the other branch have chosen to disorganize this
                                                Legislature, and inaugurate revolution; yet, sir, it
                                                occurs to me the majority still have a duty to
                                                perform, and that duty can only be discharged by
                                                remaining here to the last hour the Constitution
                                                allows us to remain. The purposes for which this
                                                Legislature met will be defeated no doubt by the
                                                action of this factious minority, but at the same
                                                time there are other matters devolving upon us which
                                                we may accomplish by remaining to the last hour.
                                                Suppose this Legislature were to adjourn on the 5th
                                                instant, there would be still left four days, and
                                                uring that time, (the minority would charge) if we
                                                had remained at our post, legislation necessary for
                                                the interest of the State might have been
                                                transacted. The gentleman says that this is what
                                                they intend to do and what they will do. They are
                                                speaking by the card. It is understood that they are
                                                not in fault. I do not know whether the gentlemen
                                                who are nodding their heads are in the jest or in
                                                earnest, but there is some reason for it. There
                                                might be a question whether this factious minority
                                                might not come here and meet from day to day, elect
                                                a Speaker, Clerks, and Sergeant-at-Arms, and compel
                                                the attendance of absent members. I simply throw
                                                this out as a suggestion.
                                          Mr. MANSFIELD. I believe I am as much opposed to
                                                revolutionary measures, and opposed to revolutionary
                                                measures, and opposed to compromises openly made in
                                                legislative halls between two political parties, as
                                                any other gentleman, but I--
                                           Mr. COBB (interrupting). Does the gentleman oppose
                                                bolting?
                                          Mr. MANSFIELD. I am going to explain.
                                          Mr. MELLETT (interposing). I should like to ask the
                                                Senator from Lawrence (Mr. Cobb) if he is opposed to
                                                bolting?
                                          Mr. COBB. Yes, sir.
                                          Mr. MELLETT. When did he become so?
                                          Mr. COBB. Since the Republicans got at it.
                                                [Laughter]
                                          Mr. MANSFIELD (resuming). I would have no objection to
                                                vote for an adjournment sine die
                                                if I thought we could constitutionality do it, and
                                                there would be no chance left for additional
                                                legislation in case those gentleman return. But I
                                                raise to touch upon another point. We are called a
                                                factious minority. Now, sir, I deny that we are a
                                                minority. We are, to be sure, a minority in these
                                                legislative halls; but, sir, we do not represent a
                                                minority of the people. I speak candidly.-- If we
                                                look at the returns we find that the majority
                                                amounts to no more than nine thousand, some hundred
                                                Now I doubt whether there is a Senator here who will
                                                deny that some 50,000 voters are out of the State,
                                                and we have seen enough of the resolutions which
                                                have been laid before this Senate, coming from those
                                                brave men who are deprived of a vote, to know that
                                                the majority--if they had not through their
                                                patriotism lost their right to this great
                                                franchise--the majority would have been as great
                                                this year in favor of the party of which I have the
                                                honor to be a member, as it was four years ago. I
                                                say, then, Mr. President, though we are n the
                                                minority here, we do not represent a minority of the
                                                people; and, sir, the measures which this accidental
                                                majority of members have the power to force upon us
                                                are distasteful to a great majority of the people of
                                                State; and under such circumstances I feel disposed
                                                to step up a little beyond the marks which the
                                                letter of the law prescribes. I oppose revolution in
                                                ordinary cases, but when I stand here pledged to do
                                                that which is the will of those who sent me here,
                                                (and I consider they would have sent a majority of
                                                members if they had their rights,) had I been in the
                                                House, and that militia bill, which tramples our
                                                Constitution under food, and throws the military
                                                power where the hears of the people do not want it,
                                                were put upon its passage. I declare that the last
                                                drop of my blood should flow before I would submit
                                                to it; and had I been a member of the House, I would
                                                like to see a man shut the door against me; I would
                                                go through.
                                          A VOICE.-- "Consent." "You
                                                might go now."
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL. I would vote for a simple proposition to
                                                adjourn, but I cannot vote for such a resolution as
                                                this one. We have no official notice of anything of
                                                the kind that is charged. I am not aware that the
                                                members of the House have bolted; but I hear it in
                                                the streets and around the lobbies that a certain
                                                number gentle- 
                                                man have gone down to Louisville to hold a pence
                                                convention; and in strict accordance with,the
                                                resolutions of the Senator from Harrison (Mr.
                                                Wolfe.) If the House have the power to adjourn, they
                                                have the power to pass a resolution to that effect,
                                                and if it comes in I shall be found in favor of it.
                                                We have seen bills taken up one of their
                                                order.--almost every one that is passed.--we have
                                                seen the reading of the journal dispensed with; we
                                                have seen the orders of the day suspended; and we
                                                have seen bills brought up from the bottom to the
                                                top of the files of the Senate that a vote might be
                                                taken upon them; and thus the business of the
                                                session has been delayed; and we have been told by a
                                                factious majority that until certain things were
                                                passed we could not be heard. I under take to say
                                                that the people are not sending up petitions to have
                                                our time taken up in passing negro bills and
                                                military bills, and in favor of the discussion of
                                                resolutions looking to an armistice and to a
                                                secession of States. The majority had brought the
                                                present condition of affairs in our legislation upon
                                                their own heads by their conduct. They had not only
                                                introduced obnoxious measures, from day to day, but
                                                had insisted upon passing a bill the object of which
                                                was to destroy the military power and render it
                                                unavailable to aid the Government in opposing the
                                                rebellion; and which was in violation of the
                                                Constitution. He was willing to let the
                                                responsibility rest where it properly belonged.
                                          Mr. RAY. This is not a question of partisan politics;
                                                it is a question of duty, entirely, whether the
                                                Senate should adjourn or not. We might commit the
                                                blunder of adjourning and give to the factious
                                                minority, so much denounced, the advantage of our
                                                blunder. They can come here to-morrow from Madison
                                                or Louisville, and be ready for legislation. There
                                                are many bills before the Senate which ought to be
                                                passed. Our duty is to travel straight on in the
                                                path of duty, letting the other end of this Capitol
                                                take care of itself and answer to the people. We
                                                will do our duty, and if necessary legislation fail
                                                by reason of the acts of a faction in the other end
                                                of the Capitol, let the fault be with them. We can
                                                answer the people that we stayed as long as the
                                                constitutional limit, and passed on every measure,
                                                whether coming from the House or originating in the
                                                Senate; and if there be fault, it lies at the doors
                                                of others, and not at ours. We do not know anything
                                                about what the condition of things will be in the
                                                other end of the Capitol to-morrow or next day. They
                                                might pass the revenue and appropriation bills, and
                                                coming to these halls, and finding no Senate, where
                                                then would the people say the responsibility is? If
                                                not with the Senate alone, it would be divided
                                                between the Senate and the House. He understood the
                                                House had refused to adjourn by a large majority of
                                                those present, and he thought it was a wise and
                                                patriotic conclusion, and he hoped the Senate would
                                                do the same.
                                          Mr. COBB. It is a peculiarity of the Senator from
                                                Fayette (Mr. Clay pool) that be cannot make a speech
                                                without bringing in questions foreign to the
                                                subject, by way of making charge against the
                                                majority on this floor. Greater latitude has been
                                                allowed that Senator find his friend than was
                                                allowed to us two years ago. Cannot the Senator do
                                                justice to any one but his friends? Does he not
                                                remember that two years ago, when he and his friends
                                                forced the minority to bolt, that he pointed to me
                                                and said he would give me and my friends to
                                                understand that they had a rope around our necks and
                                                they would bring us up to taw. Sir, we have not
                                                treated the Senator and his party so, yet the action
                                                of the Senator would warrant us in doing it. But now
                                                to the resolution. I know it is said we ought to
                                                stay and do our duty, and that is what we should do;
                                                but I submit to the gentleman from Shelby (Mr. Ray)
                                                and others, whether or not, when we have stayed here
                                                until we are convinced we cannot pass upon the
                                                necesary legislation that is before us, owing to the
                                                factious conduct of the minority in the House--I
                                                submit whether it is not our duty to ourselves and
                                                to our constituency th it we should adjourn? Why
                                                stay here? Is it a duty imposed upon Senators and
                                                Representatives who are here, to remain here when
                                                they know legislation is stopped, and we cannot pass
                                                upon it? But it is said we should pass the
                                                appropriation bills I cannot believe that we should
                                                pass one dollar of appropriation, unless it would be
                                                for the Benevolent Institutions of Indiana. I am
                                                opposed to a single dollar of appropriation for any
                                                other purpose, and that would be out of regard for
                                                the inmates and not for the officers. The Senator
                                                from Jefferson [Mr. Mansfield] would find when the
                                                people spoke again that if any change had taken
                                                place since the elections it would be still stronger
                                                against the Republican party.
                                          Mr. MELLETT. The Senator from Lawrence (Mr. Cobb) was
                                                one of the number who gave me my first lessons in
                                                bolting. The distinguished gentleman himself led the
                                                first grand bold I ever witnessed, and it was done
                                                up splendidly. Now, sir, I do not know, but I
                                                believe the Senator from Lawrence has learned that
                                                it is revolutionary to bolt, and a violation of an
                                                oath. That may be so, sir. If it is revolutionary he
                                                knows it, for he has tried it; and if it is a
                                                violation of an oath he knows it, for he has tried
                                                it. I know it is pretty hard to take, for I remember
                                                how abominably mean I felt two years ago when he was
                                                out, and I got up and made loud speeches; and if my
                                                speeches at that time were re-  ported it would be a
                                                good thing for him to read. But what good did it do
                                                me ? I got mad. I made big speeches, and we almost
                                                swore we never would yield to the minority: but we
                                                counseled and reflected, and finally we did come
                                                down. That is the fact about it. We put ourselves on
                                                paper; I feel ashamed of it to this day, but I did
                                                do it. I think, from the gentleman's
                                                speech, that he is excited, and as I got up for the
                                                benefit, of gentlemen who get excited, my advice is
                                                to use ice-water, and keep cool, because getting
                                                into a flurry won't do a bit of good.
                                                Speaking to the question of adjournment he contended
                                                that we could not adjourn until the time limited by
                                                the Constitution had expired.
                                          Mr. WOLFE. With regard to this question of adjournment.
                                                I am clearly of opinion that we have the power to do
                                                so to morrow; but upon the question of expediency I
                                                am inclined to the opinion that we had better not
                                                adjourn. Let us do all the business we can, paying
                                                no attention to what is going on in the other end of
                                                the Capitol, and if any necessary legislation fail
                                                let it not be the fault of the Senate.
                                          Mr. CORBIN. I am opposed to an adjournment at this
                                                time, not because of the preamble, for it states the
                                                truth in regard to the case, and that would tend to
                                                make me vote for the resolution, but I have a better
                                                reason, in my judgment, than that; and that reason
                                                is founded upon my constitution of the Constitution
                                                that we have no right to. I cannot see any authority
                                                given this body to adjourn, without the consent of
                                                the other, for more than three days. Where do we get
                                                our authority?-- And what is this body or the other
                                                but creatures of the Constitution ? and what are the
                                                acts of this legislative body ?-- Those that are
                                                performed by a constitutional majority; those that
                                                are performed by a quorum of two thirds; and all
                                                other acts are void. The act we could perform by
                                                adjourning sine die would be a
                                                void net and any number of members would have the
                                                right to come in and adjourn over from day to day
                                                until the close of this session. Now can we adjourn
                                                  sine die without the consent of
                                                the other house? and is that a House when there is
                                                no quorum there? There has to be a quorum in both
                                                houses to authorize us to adjourn.
                                          Mr. DOWNEY. This resolution is based upon facts not
                                                officially known. The other branch of this General
                                                Assembly advise us by resolution when the House is
                                                organized, and when they think we ought to adjourn,
                                                and if we concur we adjourn at the time agreed upon
                                                by both branches. I suppose all the discussion has
                                                been taken up en the resolution that it is desirable
                                                to have, and without insisting upon the point of
                                                order, I move to lay it on the table.
                                          The motion was agreed to by yeas 33, nays 12.
                                          So the resolution lies on the table.
                                    
                                    
                                          PRESIDENT OF BENEVOLENT
                                                INSTITUTIONS.
                                          The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate at a communication
                                                from the Auditor of State informing the Senate that
                                                in consequence of a decision of the Supreme Court
                                                that the President, of the Benevolent Invitations
                                                had forfeited his office, he could not audit the
                                                accounts of said institutions, and asking some
                                                action of the Senate in that regard, which was
                                                referred to the Judiciary
                                                  Committee.
                                    
                                    
                                          NIGHT SESSION.
                                          Leave being granted, Mr. MOORE submitted the following
                                                report, which was concurred in:
                                          Mr. President: The Committee on
                                                  Claims have had the claim of W. H.
                                                DRAPIER under consideration, and recommend that he
                                                be allowed thirty dollars for preparing and
                                                publishing the Acts and Joint Resolutions passed
                                                during last session; and also fifteen dollars for
                                                organizing the present Senate; and recommend the
                                                same to be referred to the Committee on
                                                  Finance and be allowed.
                                          Senate bills 162. 166. 171, joint resolution 16
                                                (introduced Friday;) 173. (Saturday; 175. (day
                                                before yesterday;) 177. (yesterday;) and House bills
                                                27. 31, (see page 50;) 47. (p. 57;) 72, (p. 68;) 75,
                                                (p. 82;) 143. (p. 121;) were read the second time
                                                and referred to appropriate committees; and Senate
                                                bills 31. (p. 80;) 160. (p. 168;) 169, 172, and H.
                                                R. 123 and S. 77 (p, 110;) were ordered
                                                engrossed.
                                          The joint resolution S.14, (see page 167;) was changed
                                                to a concurrent resolution and adopted.
                                    
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    WEDNESDAY, March 4, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. HOLCOMB rose to a question of privilege. He Sent to the
                                    Clerk's desk a copy of the Indiana Journal and had an article from that sheet read
                                    accusing him of attempting to cast, a slur upon Governor Morton
                                    in the matter of the draft. He had no disposition to slur that
                                    gentleman. His record was bad enough without slurring him. In
                                    this (Center) township, the hot bed of Abolitionism, according
                                    to the Draft Commissioner's report, the heaviest draft
                                    of any township in the State, save one, had been assessed.
                                    Governor Morton had made speeches in this township. He had
                                    impressed his doctrines on the people. There was the assessment
                                    reported by the Commissioner. If the fall number were not
                                    obtained it was to be explained only by one of two suppositions:
                                    Either the draft was not enforced in Center township, Marion
                                    county, or citizens, after the assessment had been made, came
                                    forward and volunteered, in his [Mr. Holcomb's]
                                    district, in the Southern part of the State, a Democratic
                                    district, the only draft made was in a county which voted for
                                    Mr. Lincoln, while in Governor Morton's district, the
                                    Burnt Republican District, the draft had obtained in every
                                    county. These  were a few
                                    facts for the Journal and Governor Morton's other few
                                    friends to think about. They, by their organ, had suggested
                                    facts, as they called them, for him to cogitate upon: he suggest
                                    facts which were facts for their rumination.
                              
                                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                                    Mr. WOLFE, from the Committee on Claims,
                                          submitted the following report:
                                    Mr. Speaker: The Committee on Claims to
                                          whom was referred the claim of A. E. & W. H.
                                          DRAPIER for sixty-six dollars, balance due on BREVIER
                                          LEGISLATIVE REPORTS of the House of Representatives, have
                                          considered the same, and recommend that the
                                                Committee on Ways and Means be
                                          directed to incorporate said sum into the Specific
                                          Appropriation Bill in favor of said claimants.
                                    The report was concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    THE STATE OF THE UNION.
                                    Mr. GIVEN, from the Committee on Federal
                                                Relations, submitted a minority report
                                          fully agreeing with the report of the majority (see page
                                          181) upon all subjects touched upon, but insisting that
                                          the great and paramount matter--a declaration in favor of
                                          a peace convention--had been overlooked, and introducing a
                                          joint resolution [37] to that end, designating Louisville
                                          as the place.
                                    The report was laid on the table and 500 copies ordered
                                          printed.
                                    The joint resolution was read and the first time and passed
                                          to the second reading.
                                    A call of the House was ordered and but 53 members answered
                                          to their names. 38 members were absent without leave. No
                                          quorum being present the House adjourned.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1863.
                              
                              A report from a committee recommending that the bill S. 176 (see
                                    page 189) be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                              
                                     NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                     Mr. GAFF, introduced a bill [179,] to protect shareholders
                                          and to prevent officers and employees of railroads from
                                          embezzling and squandering the earnings. Rules suspended
                                          read the first and second times and referred to the
                                                Committee on Corporations.
                                    Mr DAVIS, of Vermillion, introduced a bill [180.] to amend
                                          the act concerning partition of lands; which was read the
                                          first time.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    The following described House bills were read the third time
                                          and finally passed, unless otherwise stated:
                                    Mr. Atkison's, [20] to amend the law concerning the
                                          assessment and collection of school house taxes so as to
                                          levy taxes on all property lying within the townships,
                                          without reference to where owners reside; by yeas 28, nays
                                          11.
                                    Mr. Anderson's. [23] To amend the law authorizing
                                          the organization of Agricultural Societies, so that when
                                          such Societies disband their property will revert to the
                                          counties in which they located; failed to pass; by yeas
                                          15, nays 26.
                                    Mr. Spencer's, [48] To prohibit Common Pleas Judges
                                          from practicing in inferior Courts; by yeas 42, nays
                                          1.
                                    Mr. Spencer's, [82] Authorizing County Commissioners
                                          to hold sessions in County Auditors' offices; by
                                          yeas 43, nays 0.
                                    Mr. McGauchey's, [95] Fixing the time of holding
                                          Common Pleas Courts in the counties of Adams, Allen, and
                                          Huntington; by yeas 42, nays 0.
                                     Mr. Miller's, [114] Requiring County Recorders to
                                          record a certificate that all deeds, mortgages,
                                          &c., were duly stamped according to act of
                                          congress; by yeas 43, nays 0.
                              
                              
                                    THE GOVERNOR'S CONTINGENT
                                          FUND.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS, from the Finance Committee,
                                          presented a majority report in response to a resolution
                                          directing inquiry as to whether the $100,000 appropriated
                                          for Governor's contingent fund had been properly
                                          expended. The report charges that $25,000 to repay a loan
                                          which should have been paid out of this appropriation, was
                                          paid out of another fund, which is deemed by the Committee
                                          to be misapplication.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL, presented a minority reported from same
                                          committee, setting forth that no meeting of the committee
                                          had been held, and that the majority report had only been
                                          submitted to the minority on yesterday, and should be
                                          considered as an exparte report. The majority report does
                                          not claim that any money had been squandered, or that the
                                          $25,000 alluded to had not been justly paid. The minority
                                          contend that it was not the intention of the Legislature
                                          to authorize the load of $25,000, out of the contingent
                                          fund appropriation of $100,000, and that its payment out
                                          of another fund was not a misapplication.
                                    Both reports were made the special order--for to morrow
                                          morning.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. DOUGLASS introduced a bill [181] To fix the time of
                                          holding Courts in the 10th Judicial Circuit. Rules
                                          suspended and the bill read there times and passed; by
                                          yeas 36, nays 0.
                                    Mr. MARCH introduced a bill [182] Defining the manner of
                                          submitting to the vote of the people certain amendments to
                                          the Constitution. Read twice and referred to a select
                                          committee.
                                    Mr. Forester's bill [H.R. 17] To make valid sales of
                                          land by foreign executors and administrators; was passed
                                          by yeas 44, nays 1.
                                    Mr. Lake's bill [H. R. 107] For the relief of
                                          Nineveh Berry; was passed by yeas 27 nays 19.
                              

                              

                              
                                    THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND THE ARMY.
                                    Mr. COBB, on behalf of the majority of the Committee
                                                on Federal Relations, submitted a lengthy
                                          response to the several memorials presented to the Senate
                                          from Certain Indiana regiments in the field; and moved
                                          that the report lay on the table and 10,000 copies be
                                          printed for the use of the Senate.
                                    Mr. MARCH stated that the minority would submit their report
                                          tomorrow morning, and he asked that the report they would
                                          submit be printed with the majority report. He said there
                                          was a great deal of fine language in the report just read,
                                          but there was some matters of fact that the collection
                                          should go with.
                                    Mr. COBB. I shall look with some anxiety to see what kind of
                                          report the Senator will get up. It was charged by the
                                          Senator and his friends as these resolutions and memorials
                                          came in, that they were directed to the majority here;
                                          that they were sent here for the purpose of instructing us
                                          as to our duty. We have received them in a respectful
                                          manner, and we have prepared in respectful language an
                                          address in reply and we are going to submit it to these
                                          soldiers. We have prepared facts that the Senator and his
                                          friends cannot deny; in respectful language, as I said
                                          before, and in such forcible language sir, and embodying
                                          such sentiments, that the Senator will not be able to get
                                          up a minority report that will be respectful it self if he
                                          takes issue with it He cannot deny a single fact in that
                                          report, not one. Hey may indirectly, as he has in his
                                          place upon this floor, declare that we are traitors; but
                                          he will not dare, in his place nor upon paper, declare
                                          that the things set forth in that report are false. No, he
                                          will not dare do it. Then how can he get up a minority
                                          report that will be respectful and appropriate to
                                          accompany this majority report? I, for one, will never
                                          consent that he shall publish his minority report with
                                          it.
                                    Mr. MELLETT. That report is far from being the kind of report
                                          I should have made; but sir, it is such an immense
                                          improvement of the feeling and sentiment of the gentleman
                                          from Lawrence.(Mr. Cobb) that I thank the gentleman for
                                          the report and the soldiers for sending the petitions that
                                          have produced it. It has produced in the Senator from
                                          Lawrence an immense change--
                                    Mr. COBB (interrupting.) Mr. President, I deny the charge,
                                          sir; I state that the Senator is immensely mistaken. I
                                          have not changed my sentiments. The gentleman
                                          don't understand the case.
                                    Mr. MELLETT. It is probable I dont, but I understood the
                                          Senator from Lawrence to say when these petitions came
                                          here, that they did not emenate from the soldiery, that
                                          they were from the officers--the shoulder strap
                                          gentlemen;--and now, in his report, he uses the most
                                          honied words. How is that; is there no change? I tell
                                          Senator from Lawrence that the soldiers will believe there
                                          is a change, and they will thank God there is a change.
                                          And I will tell the Senator, further, that everybody who
                                          is acquainted with him will believe there is a change.
                                          When we first met here it was an armistice; a cessation of
                                          hostilities; a peace Convention; taking the powers out of
                                          the hands of the Administration at once, and stopping this
                                          blood shed: that was their stock in trade. How is it now?
                                          Why, we have had nothing to do with this war; we did not
                                          commence it; it was our duty to pay taxes support the
                                          soldiers, and feed and clothe the sick soldiers in
                                          hospitals; that is the duty of Democracy. How humble!-- My
                                          God! what a change!
                                    Mr. RAY (in his seat.) Will the gentleman say that we shall
                                          print 20,000 instead of ten?
                                    Mr. MELLETT. Yes sir, I say 100,000 and will be borne out by
                                          the soldiers. I am in favor of printing 200,000 copies if
                                          gentleman will ask it, although the report is not just as
                                          I would desire it, and states some things not in
                                          accordance with my views as matters of fact. It is said in
                                          the report that the soldiers have petition us to cast
                                          aside party, and I am in favor of that. I clasp hands and
                                          say good-bye party until this war is ended. The Senator
                                          from Shelby [Mr. Ray] and myself met here on the 18th of
                                          June and we adopted a simple resolution in favor of a
                                          vigorous prosecution of the war, laying aside all party.
                                          The Senator from Lawrence has not given up his party.
                                    Mr. COBB. Has the Senator from Henry [Mr. Mellett] been
                                          serving his party since?
                                    Mr. MELLETT. I have been voting against party.
                                    Mr. COBB. I will testify that he is one of the best
                                          republicans in that party.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. Does the Senator from Henry stand upon the
                                          resolutions he refers to as having been adopted in
                                          June.
                                    Mr. MARCH (in his seat) Yes.
                                    Mr. MELLETT. I think so. Certainly, I adopted them then and
                                          have not changed face.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. Does the Senator endorse the proclamation of
                                          emancipation?
                                    Mr. MELLETT. I do not think it was expedient. I would not
                                          have issued that proclamation of Lincoln's, but
                                          because Lincoln has done a thing I would not have done
                                          must I rebel against my government? Not at all. I am a no
                                          party man, sir and stand upon the platform made by the
                                          Senator from Shelby and us disappointed democrats on the
                                          18th of June.
                                    Mr. RAY (interposing). I had nothing to do with making the
                                          platform, but I endorsed it.

                                    

                                    Mr. MELLETT. He made the best speech in his life, and the
                                          best I have read in the last ten years, on that occasion.
                                          It was a no party speech. Now, sir. I stand upon that, but
                                          the Senator from Lawrence must save the Democratic party;
                                          the Government is good enough in its way; the Christian
                                          religion is an excellent thing, but all these things must
                                          stand aside for the Democratic party.
                                    Mr. MARCH, I agree with the Senator from Henry that it is one
                                          of the most fortunate circumstances in the history of the
                                          country that the soldiers and officers now serving in the
                                          armies of the Union thought proper to lay their address
                                          before the General Assembly; for I doubt if there has ever
                                          been more effectual preaching since the foundation of the
                                          world, unless it was that which Paul met with when on
                                          journey to Damascus. [Laughter.) But the Senator says he
                                          is unwilling that the minority report shall be printed
                                          with the majority. Now in the first place it is usual and
                                          universally a parliamentary rule that whenever the
                                          majority of a committee make a report upon any subject
                                          whatever, and that report is printed, the minority report
                                          is printed along with it, if respectful in language; and I
                                          will say that if it is not respectful in language we will
                                          not ask to have it printed. We expect to do nothing more
                                          than report a history of facts, and let them speak for
                                          themselves. Now, sir, it is said that this army and these
                                          soldiers have been misled. It is not for me to say whether
                                          they have been misled or not; but I say they are just as
                                          competent to speak for themselves as any Senator upon this
                                          floor. These soldiers are our friends, neighbors and
                                          brothers. They have lost none of their interest in their
                                          country because they are in the army; but, rather, they
                                          have proved that they feel more of an interest in the
                                          cause of their country than those of us who stay at home;
                                          and they must necessarily watch our proceeding with more
                                          interest than we do ourselves. I would not under any
                                          circumstances cast any improper reflections upon any
                                          citizen, from the highest to the low est; but I am in
                                          favor of having the facts on both sides presented to the
                                          army and the country, I desire to join Senators in
                                          returning my thanks to these gallant men for their words
                                          of wisdom, counsel and patriotism. They expect
                                          unfaltering, undying devotion to our country; asking no
                                          armistice of traitors, but swearing they will stand by the
                                          flag of our country until every foe is trampled into the
                                          dust. Then as it is the part of the brave to be merciful,
                                          I trust they will exercise that trait in the proper
                                          time.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. It seems to me that nothing can be done by the
                                          majority upon this floor that gentlemen in the minority
                                          will approve of! The demand made by the Senator is
                                          extraordinary.
                                    Mr. MELLETT (interrupting). I approve most heartily of this
                                          report as a good Democratic document.
                                    Mr. WOLFE. Some corrupt and base partisans of the State of
                                          Indiana have poisoned the mind of the soldiers in regard
                                          to the sentiments of the majority of the people of this
                                          State, or at least a majority of the members on this
                                          floor, and they petitioned the majority of this
                                          Legislature to do certain things. Their petitions were
                                          referred to the Committee on Federal
                                                Relations, for the purpose of obtaining a
                                          report from that committee presenting to the soldiers the
                                          facts in the case, so that they might not be further
                                          misled in regard to these questions. These gentlemen of
                                          the minority pretend to be opposed to party in the State,
                                          amongst the people or in the army; and what do they
                                          propose to do? Nothing to remove the false impressions
                                          made on the minds of the soldiers; but, they want to print
                                          a minority report to speak for themselves, and not for the
                                          majority on this floor. These petitions were addressed
                                          more directly to the majority on this floor, and they have
                                          the right to speak responsive; but anything the minority
                                          may say will not be in response to the petitions sent to
                                          us. They have no right to repeat the foul slander already
                                          circulated against the majority upon this floor. If they
                                          do so it will be for the purpose of keeping up a party
                                          strife among the soldiers, which we seek to remove.--Any
                                          man of any patriotism, or even common sense, can see and
                                          appreciate the fact that if this discussion is carried
                                          into the army it will get up the same kind of feeling that
                                          it has upon this floor. This report is intended to inspire
                                          the soldier upon the battle field with confidence ; that
                                          this Legislature is sustaining him. If the minority bring
                                          in a report it will be for the purpose and will have the
                                          effect of infusing a different feeling in the hearts of
                                          our soldiery. And will that be calculated to nerve the arm
                                          of the soldier, or strengthen his heart? No, sir, it will
                                          be doing the very thing these petitions seek to
                                          remove--the very thing the false and corrupt charges that
                                          were made in the first place were intended to do. For one,
                                          I am opposed to it, and will never give my sanction to any
                                          party to carry their feeling to that extent.
                                    Mr. LANDERS What is this report? It is the majority upon this
                                          floor speaking their sentiments to the soldiers in the
                                          field in reference to their petition, that the minority
                                          insist was particularly addressed to the majority here.
                                          Now, sir, I give the opposition to understand in advance
                                          that I am not willing to allow them to speak for us in
                                          this matter. The majority report expresses our sentiments.
                                          Now we have understood that the opposition expect to bring
                                          in a minority report here for the avowed purpose of
                                          showing that this re 
                                          port does not reflect the sentiments of the Democratic
                                          party. It is the same kind of principle which has actuated
                                          these gentle men from the time they came here, and that is
                                          to dictate to us the resolutions we should adopt. These
                                          gentlemen have had an opportunity of conversing with the
                                          soldiers; they have had their men sent into the army to
                                          talk to them; we have had no such opportunity, and now we
                                          ask the privilege of expressing our sentiments in this
                                          way.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL. I am surprised at the course the majority are
                                          taking in this matter. They seem to ignore the fact hit
                                          this is a General Assembly, and plant themselves upon the
                                          ground that it is a mere party convention. These petitions
                                          were addressed to the General Assembly of the State, and
                                          not to any particular branch; and I have no objection to
                                          this statement of the majority going to the army in the
                                          number of ten or 20,000, but while it goes I want the
                                          report of the minority to go with it. It may be that the
                                          report of the majority is only a partial statement. There
                                          may be some facts they ought to state, that are not stated
                                          there They may believe all that is stated, but other facts
                                          ought to go along with that statement. If it be true that
                                          the Democratic party is on trial, I ask if they want to
                                          submit their case to a jury without a rejoinder? But it
                                          has been said upon the floor of this Senate that, these
                                          resolutions were gotten up at the city of Indianapolis
                                          sneeringly pointing the finger at, the Executive of this
                                          State. This thing has been rebutted again and again; and I
                                          rise now more for the purpose of disabusing the public
                                          mind on that question than to speak to the motion to
                                          print. If they see proper to refuse to print the two
                                          reports together, they will find that the minority report
                                          will be printed. I have in my hand a letter from Col. John
                                          T. Wilder, of the 17th Indiana, dated Murfreesboro,
                                          February 18, 1863, addressed to Governor Morton, which
                                          will set at rest the imputation that these petitions were
                                          gotten up by the Governor. [Mr. C. read the letter. I read
                                          this for the purpose of meeting that accusation against
                                          the Governor, and leaving the matter where it belongs to
                                          the patriotism of the Army of the Cumberland.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. The report of the Committee
                                                on Federal Relations will never be printed
                                          and sent to the army by my vote; gentlemen may depend upon
                                          that. It is nothing but a Democratic speech, containing:
                                          the platform of the Democratic party; not denunciatory of
                                          the minority on this floor, but containing by indirection,
                                          and I might say by direction, charges against certain
                                          persons of this State that are false in fact. The report
                                          is a long one--
                                    Mr. COBB (interposing). I would like for the Senator to point
                                          out the falsehoods.
                                    Mr. BROWNE. I can do it with a great deal of pleasure. It is
                                          charged directly in the memorial that funds appropriated
                                          bv the Legislature have been used by the Executive in the
                                          hiring of minions to the Executive to poison the minds of
                                          the soldiery against the Democratic party.
                                          [That's so.] and I undertake to say, sir, that it
                                          is false in a point of fact; and Senators have no
                                          reasonable grounds for making such a charge.
                                    Mr. RAY (interrupting). There is no such accusation in the
                                          report in the language the Senator puts it.
                                    Mr. BROWNE. It is a long report, and I cannot remember the
                                          language, but I undertake to say it is substantially
                                          charged.
                                    Mr. RAY. The accusation is this:-- those who were sent to
                                          look after the soldiers were men actively engaged in
                                          poisoning their minds.
                                    Mr. BROWNE. I would like to know how much the Senator has
                                          improved my language ? I undertake to say I am as well
                                          informed upon that point as the gentleman from Shelby; and
                                          whether the charge be true or not, it is an unjust charge
                                          in the absence of proof by which it is established. I do
                                          not care about the minority report. I don't
                                          believe either of the reports ought to go to the army. I
                                          do not think political arguments should be sent there. I
                                          do not expect to unite with the minority in charging
                                          disloyalty upon the Democracy of the Senate, but there
                                          have been resolutions introduced in this Legislature by
                                          Democratic members urging a compromise, an armistice, and
                                          denouncing the Administration in bitter terms, which shows
                                          there is an element at work in the State that is not in
                                          harmony with the great Union movement.
                                    Mr. LANDERS (interrupting). Does the Senator consider it
                                          disloyal to differ with the President?
                                    Mr. BROWNE. No, sir, I do not. But I believe that it is no
                                          part of unadulterated loyalty to propose any condition to
                                          the support of the Government in ah emergency like the
                                          present one. I believe that the old Democratic party
                                          platform was right:-- "Our country, right or
                                          wrong. " In 1847 the Whigs differed with the
                                          Democrats in reference to the justness of that war, and
                                          they told us it was a question about which we had no right
                                          to inquire; that the Government was involved in war, and
                                          it was our duty to support the Government until success
                                          crowned the efforts of our armies.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. I will ask if the Democratic party attempted to
                                          suppress the expression of opinion in regard to that
                                          war?
                                    Mr. BROWNE. I do not know. I remember Gen. Jackson suppressed
                                          Judges and men both in New Orleans, where he suspended the
                                          writ of habeas corpus.

                                    

                                    Mr. RAY. I am opposed to printing the minority along with the
                                          majority report, without knowing what it is. If it
                                          attempts to sustain the original charges, of course I
                                          would object to printing it at all. The Senator from
                                          Fayette (Mr. Claypool) says he wants a rejoinder--
                                          re-affirming and attempting to prove the original charge,
                                          as a matter of course. Now I am opposed to making
                                          political issues for the use of the army, but I am ready
                                          to furnish evidence to disabuse the minds of the soldiery.
                                          I am not able to say by what instrumentality they have
                                          been imposed upon; but that they have been imposed upon is
                                          not open to question. I think a response is due them from
                                          the people of Indiana, and it is not due to the people of
                                          Indiana, to the Senate, nor to the army that a rejoinder
                                          should accompany it, reaffirming the original scandalous
                                          and infamous charge I am not willing that a partisan
                                          report shall accompany this response. Let this response go
                                          out with the memorial, and there let the question rest
                                          unless the minority feel that they are justified in
                                          presenting a minority report, and if respectful I will
                                          vote to print it.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD. I think it will be an advantage to the
                                          majority to have the minority report sent along with it.
                                          It appears that there rests some suspicion upon the action
                                          of the party now in power; and if this report is sent to
                                          them alone, it is a one-sided affair, and will only show
                                          that the majority have the power to keep from them the
                                          other view of the case. It is customary when a majority
                                          and minority report are submitted, for them both to go
                                          together; and in this case there is particular occasion
                                          for it.-- Our soldiers seem to express a fear that the
                                          legitimate power of their favorite man--our
                                          Governor--might be taken out of his hands: and I would
                                          like to send a word of consolation, to our boys that are
                                          fighting, and tell them that that law will not be passed,
                                          And there are many other little matters about which they
                                          should have a word of comfort, but I can't see it
                                          in what my friend terms "that Democratic
                                          speech." From first to last there is no word in
                                          it--nothing that will arouse the drooping spirits of our
                                          brave men, and I would like this minority report, to show
                                          that, there are some men here who have hearts, every
                                          pulsation of which beats in unison with theirs for the
                                          preservation of this Union. I hope the motion to print
                                          will be postponed till we see our minority report.
                                    Mr. CORBIN. We have heard ever since the organization of this
                                          body that the difficulties in the army were in consequence
                                          of the want of that unity of feeling and concert of action
                                          on the part of the people at home; or, in other words,
                                          upon the part of the Democratic party with those that
                                          claim to be of the "Union" party. We have heard it also said by
                                          the Minority on this floor that they were the persons were
                                          encouraging soldiery--the strong arm of the
                                          Government--and it has been charged indirectly and
                                          directly that the majority upon this floor, and the
                                          Democratic party throughout the State were the very cause
                                          of creating this disaffection and division. This same
                                          sentiment comes to us from the soldiers in the field in
                                          the shape of a petition. Now, then if that is the case,
                                          what I should be the object of these men who
                                                are"the loyal men of our
                                          country?" To try and heal those difficulties and
                                          help to create a re union where there is a disunion of
                                          sentiment. Should not that, be the sentiment which should
                                          prompt every honest effort? I say, yes. We have set forth
                                          in answer to these memorials that which has a tendency to
                                          soothe their dejected spirits, and heal this disunion of
                                          sentiment on the part of these soldiers; and if this is
                                          so, why is it that the minority ask to send a minority
                                          report? Do they want to help spread oil upon the waters of
                                          discord?--Why no, they say: "We want to present a
                                          further indictment, and make it good by further
                                          charges." I say, by that act they show I ha they
                                          are not honest in their professions; that they are not for
                                          that unity of sentiment which is the strength of an army.
                                          They are false to their pledges and thy people when they
                                          seek to put forth sentiments that will produce discord.
                                          And that is why I am opposed to sending any more missiles
                                          of discord.-- I say let them go by some secret,
                                          underground railroad. They have gone to the army before,
                                          and that is what has brought forth these petitions
                                          charging the Democracy upon this floor with disloyal acts
                                          and sentiments.
                                    Mr. WHITE. I thought this Senate was up to the standard of
                                          liberality, and why is it that the majority intimate that
                                          they will not publish our report? l am gratified that so
                                          liberal a report has come from the majority, although
                                          there are things in it which I cannot endorse. These
                                          gentle-man tell us that they had no agency in bringing on
                                          the war, and have no agency in carrying it on. I will
                                          vindicate the Democracy of Montgomery County by saying
                                          they have an agency in carrying on this war.
                                    Mr. RAY (interrupting). The report does not say the Democracy
                                          have no agency in carrying on this war.
                                    Mr. WHITE. You say " we."
                                    Mr. RAY. The old Federal power is in the hands of the other
                                          party; and in the sense of power we have no agency in
                                          it.
                                    Mr. WHITE. I don't think that explanation makes any
                                          material difference. But gentlemen accuse Governor Morton
                                          with having sent men to the army for the purpose of
                                          relieving the wants of the soldiers, who made themselves
                                          mere political 
                                          colporteurs. I ask whether the soldiers have not had
                                          opportunities to learn what the majority intended in
                                          regard lo this war, without any such emissaries, as they
                                          charge have been sent? On the first day we assembled here
                                          the Senator from Fayette offered a resolution setting
                                          forth that we were In favor of a vigorous prosecution of
                                          this war within the Constitution, and the majority on this
                                          floor voted that down. These are things that found their
                                          way in the papers, and the papers went to the soldiers,
                                          and the soldiers read, reflected, and spoke.
                                    Mr DOUGLASS (interrupting). Did the Senator mean to say that
                                          the resolution was voted down.
                                    Mr. WHITE. It was in effect voted down, from the fact that
                                          they sent it to a committee that had no creation.
                                    Mr. COBB. Is it not in strict accordance with parliamentary
                                          law that a deliberative body has the right to send matter
                                          to a committee before it is raised ?
                                    Mr. WHITE. The President of the Senate so decided, and on his
                                          judgment I am willing to act. But these things went to the
                                          soldiers without the decision of the President. And on
                                          that same day, it being the 8th of January, the majority
                                          on this floor refused to adjourn for the purpose of
                                          commemorating the glorious victory won by General Jackson
                                          over a foreign foe at New Orleans. I refer to these things
                                          for the purple of showing how the soldiers came to the
                                          conclusions they did, without Governor Morton sending
                                          persons there for that purpose.
                                    Mr. RAY. Can the gentleman tell by what avenue they got the
                                          very same set of resolutions in the armies of the Potomac,
                                          Cumberland and Mississippi, all at the same fuse?
                                    Mr. MELLETT. I would ask if they are Identical ?
                                    Mr. RAY. Yes, sir. I can find resolutions from the Potomac,
                                          from Murfreesboro, and from Corinth all identical in
                                          preamble and resolutions with those adopted by certain
                                          regiments from Illinois.
                                    Mr. WHITE. My view is this, and I thank God for it, that
                                          there is a concert of action between all the armies. I
                                          believe that all parts of the one grand whole are acting
                                          in concert together--all speaking the same voice for the
                                          same glorious cause. It only nerves me, and gives me
                                          brighter hopes for the future.
                                    Mr. COBB. Did not Democrats, two years ago, vote with
                                          Republicans to furnish money to assist them in fighting
                                          ?
                                    Mr. WHITE. Yes, sir, and I thank them for it. If there was a
                                          Democrat on this floor at that time. I did not know it;
                                          and if there was a Republican I did not wish to know it;
                                          and when I went to my people the brightest record I could
                                          hold up was the Reports of the Special Session, of the
                                          Legislature.
                                    Mr. MURRAY. I wish to express my approbation, in the main, of
                                          this report; and that gratification chiefly arises from
                                          the fact that I have uniformly, from the first, taken
                                          issue with my Republican friends in charging disloyalty
                                          upon the Democratic party of Indiana, and my position in
                                          this respect has been literally fulfilled by this report,
                                          sir. Although there are many things I do not like, yet
                                          upon the main issue--in everything pertaining to the
                                          prosecution of this war--I can take this report home in my
                                          hand and show those Republican friends of mine there that
                                          I have not misconstrued their action--that I have been
                                          correct in my estimate of the patriotism of this party,
                                          sir. It has been my desire and wish to see all parties
                                          upon the soil of Indiana true and loyal to the Government,
                                          and willing to spend the last cent in defence of our
                                          country, and to maintain the integrity of this Union; and
                                          that has been my belief, therefore I am gratified. But how
                                          has this misapprehension got out ? Their party leaders
                                          have party politics and no other, and there has been no
                                          man attending these Abolition meetings but what has seen
                                          and heard these charges of disloyalty made upon the great
                                          Democratic party of the Union.--These speeches have been
                                          reported in the public press, and that is the way the
                                          soldiers have been made to believe that there was a great
                                          portion of the Democatic party in this State disloyal.
                                          This reports sets out by simply stating that this
                                          Democratic party has done no disloyal act, and do
                                          gentlemen want to come in and controvert that, sir? I do
                                          not think they do, sir.--That charge has been made in
                                          every county and by every stump speaker in the State
                                          against the Democratic party. When I have been home on a
                                          visit, I have been met by hundreds of inquiries to know,
                                          if this Democratic party was disloyal; if it was going to
                                          take this State out of the Union and attach it to the
                                          Southern Confederacy; and whether it would undertake to
                                          set up a Northwestern Confederacy ? I have denied these
                                          charges, sir, and said that when this Legislature broke up
                                          there would be sufficient evidence to show that I was
                                          right. And now we have a report expressive of the
                                          sentiments of that party, and I am glad of it, and am
                                          willing to vote to print it.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. I am always glad to receive anything that is good,
                                          come from what source it may: and I am glad that the
                                                Committee on Federal
                                          Relations--at the close of the session, after
                                          they found out that the majority could not pass any
                                          peculiar schemes they were urging,--have come up with a
                                          part of a confession of faith. I am truly glad, after all
                                          these things have been defeated, that these gentlemen have
                                          come up at the close of the session and presented us with
                                          a small part of patriotism.

                                    

                                    Mr. RAY (interrupting). What measure has been defeated thus
                                          far that the I Democratic party or any member of the party
                                          has demanded, of a partisan character, except through a
                                          bolt of the opposition ?
                                    Mr. BLAIR. That is the beet way that can possibly be devised
                                          to defeat these things. A military bill has been urged in
                                          the other end of the Capitol to take the power from the
                                          hands of the Governor; and you come presenting a
                                          resolution for an armistice--
                                    Mr. COBB (interrupting), Who does ?
                                    Mr. BLAIR. The gentleman from Wells.
                                    Mr. COBB. Is he the Democratic party? The Democratic party
                                          has presented no each measure here.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. I say these measures have been presented by men of
                                          your party, and you have not placed a negative upon any of
                                          these propositions.
                                    Mr. RAY. The Senator says they have been defeated. Now I want
                                          to know how?
                                    Mr. BLAIR. I say they have been defeated by the session
                                          drawing near to a close and the urging of these measures
                                          in the other branch until you succeeded in driving the
                                          minority from the Hall in order to defeat them. A
                                          resolution was read here only last evening denouncing the
                                          course of the present Administration.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. The Senator says, if certain things be true, it
                                          is evident that we intend to rob the Governor of his
                                          military power. I ask where did the Governor get that
                                          power?
                                    Mr. BLAIR. The Governor gets it from the Constitution.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. Does this bill propose to take that power from
                                          him?
                                    Mr. BLAIR. It does most assuredly. But I don't
                                          propose to discuss that measure any further. In reference
                                          to this report a strange course has been pursued, for they
                                          tell us in advance of any expression of the views of the
                                          minority that they are unwilling it shall be
                                          published.
                                    Mr. RAY. I said to the contrary for one, and have not heard
                                          anything to the contrary come from others.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. But there has.
                                    Mr. COBB. I don't know who the Senator understood as
                                          saying so.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. I understood the Senator from Lawrence (Mr. Cobb)
                                          to say so.
                                    Mr. COBB. The Senator never understood me to say any such
                                          thing.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. With reference to the use of funds by the Governor
                                          which that report charges have been used for the purpose
                                          of sending out emissaries to poison the minds of the
                                          soldiers, I pretend to say that is not; true. It ia
                                          nothing but just and fair that the minority--
                                    Mr. COBB (interrupting). It does not say that the Executive
                                          has sent out these emissaries.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. I have read over the report since it was read at
                                          the Secretary's table, and I understand that to
                                          be'the fact. The minority have a just right to
                                          set forth the facts and have them go out with the majority
                                          report; and that minority report will be prepared; and it
                                          will go out.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY. If there is any thing, sir, which I desire above
                                          another while a member of this body, it is that Senators
                                          of all parties might agree upon one thing, and that is to
                                          sustain the government of our country in the suppression
                                          of the rebellion, and save for ourselves and posterity the
                                          Constitution that our fathers adopted, and the Government
                                          and its blessings, which resulted from the adoption of
                                          that Constitution. I am pleased, in the main, with the
                                          statements made in this report; and I am grateful to the
                                          gentlemen who have prepared and introduced that report,
                                          for it certainly will have a good tendency towards the
                                          production of that unity of sentiment and action which
                                          every friend of the country ought to desire, and which I
                                          presume he does. As for as the question is concerned as to
                                          whether this minority report shall be printed or not in
                                          connection with the report of the majority, I am not
                                          prepared to vote until I shall see and hear what that
                                          minority report is. If it is a proper report--such as
                                          ought to be printed--I shall vote for printing it; and if
                                          gentlemen who wish to bring in that report desire time, I
                                          should favor a postponement of the further consideration
                                          of this question until to-morrow or some other convenient
                                          time.
                                    I wish to say something in regard to a question about which
                                          gentlemen have been interrogating each other, and that is
                                          this: in regard to the effort to take from the Governor
                                          his constitutional military power. Why, sir, the Senator
                                          from Hendricks [Mr. Blair] concedes in answer to a
                                          question by the Senator from Morgan [Mr. Landers] that the
                                          proposition [the military bill] pending in the other
                                          branch is unconstitutional, and yet the Senator from
                                          Hendricks, being a member of the legal profession, would
                                          contend that there would be some validity in that law. How
                                          unwise is it, sir, to create agitation upon a point in
                                          which there is nothing--as I contend there is nothing in
                                          that point. Does not every man--every Senator here know
                                          that any'law passed by the Legislature in
                                          violation of the State Constitution is a nullity? Why then
                                          talk about designing men leaving their seats because some
                                          one has introduced an enactment unconstitutional in its
                                          provisions? Suppose that bill should pass the House, it
                                          then has to come and be passed by this Senate, and alter
                                          that it must go to the Governor for his approval; and it
                                          is his high duty, sir, in that emergency, to decide
                                          whether it is constitutional or not, and if not it is
                                          within his power to veto it. Not until all this has been
                                          done, and until it has been passed  by a majority of the
                                          members of both branches over that, veto can it become a
                                          law, and not then if it is unconstitutional.
                                    Mr. BLAIR (interrupting). Have not the members of the
                                          Legislature a right to judge whether the measures which
                                          come before them are constitutional or not?
                                    Mr. DOWNEY. Why, certainly; but I suppose the gentleman is
                                          too good a lawyer to presume that members are the final
                                          arbiters in that matter.
                                    Mr. BLAIR. But they need not make fools of themselves by
                                          letting such a bill pass.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY. Nor are they bound to make fools of themselves by
                                          bolting from the Legislature, because they suppose a
                                          measure that is urged is unconstitutional. Let them
                                          perform the duty they are called upon to perform by voting
                                          upon that measure. As far as this body is concerned I
                                          desire to cull the attention of Senators to a report made
                                          in the early part of the session. The Senator from
                                          Randolph introduced certain resolutions, which were
                                          referred to a committee of nine, perhaps, and that
                                          committee made a report in regard to the
                                          Governor's military power.-- (Mr. D. read from
                                          the report of the committee, in which they declared they
                                          had no intention to infract the constitutional powers of
                                          the Governor.) Now, in the face of that report, sir, it is
                                          pretended that there is a disposition on the part of the
                                          majority of the members of this Senate to enact a law
                                          which would deprive the Governor of his proper
                                          constitutional authority! I do not believe any such thing.
                                          I do not believe any such measure could pass this Senate.
                                          I have too much respect for the sense and judgment of
                                          gentlemen who sit here, to think that they would pass an
                                          unconstitutional measure. I am willing to say, as far as I
                                          am concerned, that those powers given to the Governor by
                                          the State military law have been properly used. I know of
                                          no reason, and have not heard of any, for interfering with
                                          the Governor's constitutional powers as
                                          Commander-in-Chief of the State militia. You cannot take
                                          away from the Governor any power the Constitution gives
                                          him. But we might have a better military law than we have
                                          now.
                                    Mr. MANSFIELD. I agree with the gentleman from Ohio [Mr.
                                          Downey] that according to the letter of the law, there is
                                          nothing to be found in that bill which is
                                          unconstitutional. Now, sir, the Constitution directes and
                                          gives the power to the Governor to issue all commissions.
                                          how is that in the bill? Will it allow him to do that? He
                                          cannot issue a commission under that bill, but it gives to
                                          other men the power to give certificates which that bill
                                          says shall have the force and effect of commissions
                                          whether issues by the Governor or not. In effect that law
                                          is unconstitutional. Even the people are deprived of the
                                          rights which that bill pretends to give them.
                                    On motion by Mr. DOWNEY, the farther consideration of the
                                          subject was postponed.
                              
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. GIVEN offered a resolution, which was adopted, calling upon the
                                    special committee raised by the last Legislature to investigate
                                    the affairs of the Land Office and Wabash and Erie Canal, to
                                    report.
                              
                                    THE PUBLIC MONEYS.
                                    Mr. BIRD offered the following, which was adopted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Be it Resolved by the House, the
                                                  Senate concurring, that the Attorney General
                                                  be instructed to sue in the name of the State for
                                                  any money drawn from the State Treasury, and
                                                  appropriated by the person drawing it to a purpose
                                                  not contemplated by the act of appropriation, or
                                                  that has been paid to any person for the benefit
                                                  of the State for advances of money or property
                                                  made to the General Government by the State, and
                                                  has not been paid into the State Treasury by such
                                                  persons.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. LEE offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing
                                          the Speaker to appoint a committee of one from each
                                          Congressional district, who shall prepare an address to
                                          the people showing the causes which have obstructed the
                                          necessary legislation of this session.
                                    Mr. BROWN. Mr. Speaker: I had hoped that the excitement of
                                          the last canvass and the charges made in that canvass
                                          against political parties would be cast aside, and that
                                          gentlemen of different political opinions would meet here
                                          as equals and express their opinions with a view to the
                                          promotion of the welfare and interest of the entire people
                                          of this State, and not with a view to the promotion of a
                                          political party and the manufacturing of political
                                          capital. I thought after the election which occured last
                                          fall, politics in Indiana would subside a little, and that
                                          the struggle for political prominence by the political
                                          parties would cease for a season. I supposed the large
                                          majority the Democratic party had received at the hands of
                                          the people of this State, as well as elsewhere, was
                                          sufficient evidence to prove its loyalty, its fidelity to
                                          the Constitution, its desire to preserve the Union, and to
                                          convince the people that the charges of disloyalty,
                                          disunion and treason which had been so loudly made against
                                          it were false, and had been made only for political and
                                          partisan purposes, and I presumed those charges would be
                                          permitted to "Sleep
                                                the sleep that knows no waking."
                                          I presumed that when this body met here in this hall
                                          it met as the Representatives of the people of this State,
                                          elected and sent here by them, not for the purpose of
                                          creating political parties and making political platforms,
                                          but for the purpose of enacting laws and making provision
                                          for  the carrying on
                                          of the State Government and the management of the State
                                          institutions which should result to the common use,
                                          enjoyment and benefit of all the people of the Slate. But
                                          I find I have been greatly mistaken Perhaps my youth and
                                          inexperience is the reason for my being mistaken. Yet it
                                          is true that scarcely had this House been called to order
                                          before gentlemen belonging to the Abolition party--a party
                                          whose life has been of short duration, and while it lived
                                          was looked upon by honest men with contempt and suspicion;
                                          a party that has been judged by the people, and by them
                                          condemned on account of its dishonesty, corruption and
                                          profligacy--I say, scarcely had this House been called to
                                          order, before gentlemen belonging to that corrupt and
                                          condemned party began introducing resolutions of a
                                          partisan character and commenced a system of discussion
                                          which for fanaticism, abuse, scandal and slander upon the
                                          Democratic party, far excelled the course of conduct and
                                          discussion pursued by the Abolitionists in the canvass of
                                          last fall.
                                    I have witnessed this course of conduct until I have become
                                          convinced that it is the desire and intention upon the
                                          part of the minority to prevent necessary legislation from
                                          being accomplished in order that they may have something
                                          to proclaim to the people for the purpose of promoting
                                          their party interests. They, themselves, have deceived the
                                          people. They have no merit brought about by their own
                                          action and conduct upon which they can succeed, and their
                                          intention is to attempt to succeed upon what they term
                                          faults and crimes of the Democratic party. And for the
                                          purpose of gaining something that can be made the pretext
                                          for such a course of conduct, they are willing to violate
                                          that duty which they owe to themselves and their
                                          constituents and that duty which they owe to the people of
                                          this State. They are willing to cast aside the dignity
                                          belonging to this body and convert ii into a place of
                                          resort for political scavangers and gamblers, rather than
                                          keep and protect it as a part of the General Assembly of
                                          the State of Indiana, called together by the people
                                          thereof, for the purpose of making provision for their
                                          happiness and comfort.
                                    I have too much confidence in, and too good an opinion of the
                                          patriotism and intelligence of the people of Indiana, to
                                          believe or think that they would band them selves together
                                          for the purpose of overthrowing the government or giving
                                          aid and comfort to its enemies, as has been charged upon
                                          this floor. The one hundred thousand soldiers from this
                                          State, who are now upon the field of battle, risking their
                                          lives, as they believe, for the maintenance of the
                                          Constitution and the restoration of the Union, speaks too
                                          loudly in favor of the patriotism of the people of Indiana
                                          to give credence to the charge of the existence of such a
                                          society. But it is said common rumor gives evidence of its
                                          existence, and consequently it certainly must exist Common
                                          rumor! What does "rumor" mean? It
                                          usually means a current story, passing from one person to
                                          another without any known authority for the truth of it.
                                          By prefixing the word "common" to it, it
                                          simply makes it mean that the rumor or story, is generally
                                          or widly circulated. Then we have it that the story in
                                          being widely circulated, that such a society does exist,
                                          without any known authority that the story is true.
                                    But, sir, I cannot admit that common rumor does bear witness
                                          of the existence of such a society. If it is a rumor at
                                          all, it is a minor that has been put in circulation by the
                                          leaders of that malignant party to which the advocates of
                                          this Administration belong; that party which has done much
                                          to bring the present troubles upon the country. It is a
                                          rumor composed of slander and falsehood created by the
                                          imaginations of the rulers of the abolition party, and is
                                          now being circulated by their willing and obedient
                                          servants for party effect. This same charge or slander was
                                          made against the Democratic party by them last fall, and
                                          what was the result?-- The voice of the people at the
                                          ballot box, fairly expressed, condemned and pronounced it
                                          fake by a majority of ten thousand votes. Yet that voice,
                                          so loudly and to earnestly spoken, by the sovereign people
                                          of the State of Indiana, whose will it is our duty to
                                          obey, and whose voice it is our duty to heed, is heeded
                                          not by the advocates of this pet measure of abolitionism.
                                          Their lords, high priests find; masters, in their temple
                                          at Washington City have furnished an example for
                                          disregarding the will and voice of the people--for
                                          disregarding the Constitution and the laws; and they are
                                          commanded to follow and uphold that example. They must
                                          obey--they dare not disregard it. Like passive subjects to
                                          cruel masters, they do obey to the best of their power and
                                          ability.
                                    But we are told that newspapers are publishing to the world
                                          that such a society exists. What class of papers are they?
                                          Are they the class which, from the commencement of our
                                          present national difficulties, have stood by the
                                          Constitution and by the laws, and desired a restoration of
                                          the Union upon the basis of the Constitution as our
                                          fathers bequeathed it to us?-- Are they a class entitled
                                          to credit and respect? They are not, and shall receive
                                          none at my hands. They are that class of papers like the
                                          Indianapolis Journal, whose editor
                                          admitted upon his oath, before a legal and competent Grand
                                          Jury of this State (as I have before stated upon this
                                          floor,) that he drew upon his imagination for the facts
                                          contained in his editorials.-- They are like that same
                                          journal which on  the
                                          28th day of November, 1860, in one of its editorials
                                          declared
                                    "That if any State in this Union feels the Union to
                                          be injurious and oppressive, a civil war won't
                                          change her opinion; in fact, it is not calculated to
                                          change it, and if she will not stay in the Union it will
                                          be cheaper and kinder to let her go;" and
                                          which now declares all persons who do not endorse every
                                          political doctrine of the present Administration, and
                                          particularly those who do not endorse the conduct of that
                                          Administration- in the prosecution or the present civil
                                          war, (which that same journal now declares is a war for
                                          the purpose of changing the opinions of States and
                                          bringing them back into the Union) to be enemies to the
                                          government and traitors to their country. They are like
                                          that same journal which on the 7th day of December, 1860,
                                          in its editorial declared in favor of a peaceable
                                          separation of the Union when states desired to secede from
                                          it, and now it condemns all as traitors who are not in
                                          favor of war, blood shed, fire and sword;--it now says for
                                          the purpose of bringing back into the Union States that
                                          have attempted to secede, and the restoration and
                                          preservation of the Union. They are like that same journal
                                          which, on the 31st day of July 1862, declared a convention
                                          of the people of Indiana to be "TRAITORS IN COUNCIL. That it was a conglomerate admixture of
                                                treason, prejudice and hypocricy. That there had not
                                                been so much treason concentrated together since the
                                                rebel army marched out from Richmond to attack
                                                McClellan;" that paper well knowing
                                          that it was one of the largest and most, respectable
                                          Conventions that had ever assembled in the State of
                                          Indiana; a convention composed of true and loyal men who
                                          had come together for the purpose of expressing their
                                          fidelity to the Constitution and their devotion to the
                                          Union. A Convention which by resolution had declared
                                    "That the Constitution, the American Union, and the
                                          laws made under and by authority of the Constitution, must
                                          be preserved and maintained in their rightful and proper
                                          supremacy--that the rebellion now in arms against them
                                          must be put down and suppressed, and that it is the duty
                                          of all good citizens to aid the general government in all
                                          measures necessary and proper to that end."
                                    All that, however, did not prevent the convention from being
                                          slandered by the hypocritical and indecent paper. It had
                                          committed a great crime of omission. It had foiled to
                                          worship at the altar of Abolitionism and had not expressed
                                          love and sympathy for some "free American of
                                          African descent." The newspapers that have been
                                          giving publicity to the existence of secret political
                                          societies, the "Knights of the Golden
                                          Circle," or anything of that character, are that
                                          class of newspapers which, when this monstrous rebellion
                                          first broke out, did all in their power to compel the
                                          Administration to permit States to secede; not to
                                          undertake to restore the Union, but to recognize the
                                          Southern Confederacy. They are that class of paper which,
                                          from the commencement of the present civil war up to the
                                          present time, have done much to produce distraction and
                                          dissension here at home, where we should be a united
                                          people. They are that class of papers which have paid no
                                          respect whatever to Constitution, to law, nor to liberty;
                                          but on the other hand, they have supported the
                                          "higher law" doctrine, and have spurned
                                          and disregarded the Constitution. They are that class of
                                          papers which have supported the present Administration in
                                          its wicked progress toward the establishment of a
                                          centralized and despotic power, instead of upholding the
                                          Government of freedom and liberty which our fathers gave
                                          us. They are that class of papers which have been inviting
                                          civil war and bloodshed to our own doors and hearth stones
                                          by advocating and invoking the spirit of democracy; by
                                          endeavoring to suppress free speech, and by an attempt to
                                          place the military above the civil authority. They are
                                          that class of papers which from the commencement of the
                                          present deplorable civil war have been giving aid and
                                          comfort to the secessionists of the South vy telling them
                                          there was a large party here in the North which desired
                                          the rebellion to succeed, and was opposing the
                                          Administration for the purpose of giving aid and
                                          encouragement to the rebellion. I have no regard for them.
                                          I pay no respect to them. They have been a curse to the
                                          country, and will continue to be a curse to the country so
                                          long as their pestilential teachings and doctrines are
                                          presented to the people.
                                    A great and fearful responsibility is resting upon the
                                          present Administration. The people are submitting to its
                                          conduct with patience; and I hope they will still exercise
                                          patience and forbearance. I desire that all differences
                                          shall be determined by law; by order; by the ballot-box.
                                          But I tell the advocates of the Administration--the men
                                          who think it can commit no wrong--that there is a point to
                                          which, in my judgment, it would be extremely dangerous to
                                          attempt to force the people. I hope the Administration
                                          will not farther attempt to encroach upon their rights. I
                                          hope it will plant itself upon the Constitution of the
                                          country, and administer the Government in accordance with
                                          the Constitution. The people desire to uphold and support
                                          the Administration. They desire to preserve the public
                                          peace, to maintain good order; to obey the laws, and to
                                          restore the Union; but they ask the privilege of enjoying
                                          that liberty and those rights which their fathers in the
                                          constitution said they might enjoy. They ask protection in
                                          the enjoyment of those rights at the hands of their public
                                          servants, and they will have it. THEY WILL
                                                NOT HAVE IT.

                                    

                                    It is said that a Grand Jury of the United States Court for
                                          this District of Indiana has published to the world that
                                          treasonable societies exist in this State. I have but
                                          little to say in reference to that Grand Jury, for its own
                                          conduct has condemned it. It was called together by
                                          authority of law to serve the people. It was a part of the
                                          Judiciary of the country.-- It was its sworn and bounden
                                          duty to perform all its labors impartially;--to preserve
                                          the rights of community in general on the one hand, and to
                                          protect the rights of citizens thereof upon the other. It
                                          was its sworn and bounden duty in the presentment of
                                          persons for violation of law to present none on account of
                                          malice or hatred, and to leave none without presentment by
                                          reason of favor or the hope of reward. When that Grand
                                          Jury was empanelled every member of it solemnly swore to
                                          keep secret all its proceedings.--The oath was properly
                                          administered to them by competent authority. It was
                                          intended to be binding upon their consciences, and should
                                          have been so treated by them, Yet what is the truth in
                                          reference to their conduct while acting under the sacred
                                          obligations of that solemn oath? Scarce one week had
                                          passed away before members of that Grand Jury were making
                                          speeches all over the State to political meetings gotten
                                          up for party purposes, and for party effect, and there
                                          retailing publicly what had transpired before them while
                                          engaged in their official capacities as Jurors, acting
                                          under the sacred obligations of an oath to keep all their
                                          proceedings secret. Not content with that, they made a
                                          publication; styled it their report; published it in the
                                          newspapers, and sent it broadcast all over the land; in
                                          which they say there came to their knowledge while acting
                                          in the capacity of Jurors evidence of the existence of
                                          fifteen thousand traitors in Indiana; that they had a
                                          society in which they were banded together by oaths to
                                          give aid and comfort to the Southern Confederacy, and also
                                          to assist in the establishment of a Northwestern
                                          Confederacy; that they had grips and signs by which they
                                          could recognize each other--signs by which, in case they
                                          we drafted, they could let the enemy in battle know them
                                          to be friends, and thus they would escape unhurt. All this
                                          that Grand Jury published as being true; and to compel the
                                          people to believe it they say they acquired their
                                          knowledge of it while engaged in the performance of their
                                          duty as Jurors. These reports are false in fact, or else
                                          these Jurors were false to their oaths. Was that all they
                                          did ? Sworn to make presentment against no person on
                                          account of hatred or malice;--the oath was so administered
                                          to them; the Judge so charged them--yet we find that
                                          citizens of Indiana were presented by that Jury; charged
                                          by it with having committed treason--the highest crime
                                          known to the law of the land--because, forsooth, they did
                                          not walk under the yoke of Abolitionism and cry with a
                                          loud voice. "Great is the latter-day
                                          Abraham." They allowed themselves to be made the
                                          willing slaves of a wicked and corrupt party. On account
                                          of the entertainment and exercise of political opinions,
                                          and upon insufficient testimony, they presented citizens
                                          as culprits and felons, and caused their incarceration in
                                          dungeons. The day for final trial came. A traverse Jury
                                          was selected--selected, too, by political friends of the
                                          Administration. The strongest possible case was selected
                                          and presen ed to that Jury, and it refused to convict the
                                          prisoner of any crime at all. Thus ends he labors of that
                                          remarkable Grand Jury. Its action and conduct is entitled
                                          to neither respect nor credit. The members of it have
                                          disgraced themselves, and time itself cannot blot it out I
                                          fear their children after them will be taunted with the
                                          disgraceful reproach that their fathers foreswore
                                          themselves.
                                    The statement that the Democratic party is opposed to the
                                          Government, or that it is giving aid and comfort to the
                                          Southern rebellion, or that it is desirous of the
                                          formation of a Northwestern Confederacy, is false; and I
                                          appeal to the history of the Democratic party to verify
                                          the falsity of such a statement. That party is to day, as
                                          it has been for years gone by devoted to the Constitution
                                          and the Union. It desires but one Union and one
                                          Constitution, and it wants that Union to be the Union of
                                          all the States, and that Constitution to be the
                                          Constitution which our fathers gave us. I challenge the
                                          advocates of Abolitionism and Despotism--the men who obey
                                          the law given them by their wicked leaders--for the proof
                                          of their declarations that the Democracy is not true to
                                          the Union, or desires it to be divided. The proof
                                          presented is, that the Democracy speak against the
                                          Government. Speaking against the Government has become a
                                          very familiar charge, and the men who make it are either
                                          too ignorant to distinguish the difference between the
                                          Government and the Administration, or else they are too
                                          dishonest to do it.--They are that class of men who would
                                          have us believe that some high officials at Washington
                                          City are the Government. I do not believe that Abraham
                                          Lincoln and the entire body of his political satellites
                                          are yet the Government. I regard the Constitution of the
                                          country, made and adopted by the people, as the
                                          Government; and not some men who have happened to be
                                          elected to office. The Constitution is founded upon the
                                          axiom that all Governments derive their just powers from
                                          the consent of the governed. It is the instrument which
                                          our fathers made, giving us liberty,and it protects us in
                                          the enjoyment of it. The people have ac-  cepted it as the Great
                                          Charter which is to hold them together, a happy, united
                                          and prosperous people. They sustain it and give it force
                                          and power. Let it not be violated and all will yet be
                                          well. It is true that the Democratic party criticises the
                                          conduct of the Administration--of men in official
                                          position. The Constitution gives the people that right. It
                                          says:
                                    "Congress shall make no law respecting an
                                          establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free
                                          exercise thereof, or abridging the freedom of
                                                speech or of the press."
                                    What is it that makes these latter day officials so supreme
                                          and sacred that the people dare not speak in reference to
                                          their action and conduct? Is it because they have
                                          permitted the public Treasury to be pillaged, plundered
                                          and robbed, and have tailed to bring one culprit to
                                          justice? Is it because they have sat as rulers of a
                                          bleeding country and heeded not the will and voice of the
                                          people at the ballot box fairly expressed? Is it because
                                          they have trampled the Constitution and laws under foot
                                          and appealed to the "higher law"
                                          doctrine? Is it because they have seen printing presses
                                          mobbed, private property of every description sacrificed
                                          and destroyed, and have not raised their voices against
                                          it, or undertaken to compensate the owners ? Is it because
                                          they have seen the white citizens of
                                          this country, without respect for sex, age, rank or
                                          condition in life, ruthlessly kidnapped;--torn from their
                                          homes, families and friends;--cast into dungeons without
                                          charge or accusation preferred against them;--denied a
                                          trial;--but there to remain, sicken and die? The people
                                          are descendants of a noble ancestry, and that ancestry has
                                          furnished them the example for criticising the conduct of
                                          public men, and they will criticise it. You cannot prevent
                                          it. By your physical force which you now possess you may
                                          succeed for a season in abridging discussion;--you may in
                                          some instances crush out free speech;-- but your days are
                                          numbered. Truth, right and just will prevail. I warn you
                                          to retrace your steps and change your conduct, lest the
                                          indignation of an outraged people become so great, and
                                          their hatred for you so intense that reason itself cannot
                                          control them.
                                    We are told that the Democratic party does not endorse the
                                          conduct and policy of the administration. Of course it
                                          does not. If it did it would not be a constitution-loving,
                                          a law-abiding and Union preserving party. It does not
                                          refuse to approve the conduct and policy of the
                                          Administration for the reason that it desires to op pose
                                          it in any rightful and proper efforts it may make to put
                                          down the rebellion and restore the Union, but it refuses
                                          to endorse and support the Administration in all things,
                                          for the reason that it believes the course of conduct
                                          already pursued by it and the course which it is now
                                          pursuing has a tendency to further separate rather than
                                          restore the Union. The earnest desire of the Democratic
                                          party is a restoration of the Union, and it had furnished
                                          all means ever demanded of it by the Administration for
                                          that purpose. When this rebellion first threatened the
                                          country the Democratic party desired to walk in the
                                          footsteps of the fathers, and follow the example which
                                          they left us. They desired by fair and honorable
                                          compromise--by proper concession by all parties to quell
                                          the fearful storm--to save the Constitution--to save the
                                          Union and to save liberty without a great effusion of
                                          blood; but they were spurned with contempt from the foot
                                          of the abolition throne. This new party for the first time
                                          in the history of our county had come into power, and it
                                          must rule or ruin. One of its leading advocates had
                                          declared that the "Union without a little
                                          blood-letting was not worth a rush," and that was
                                          accepted as the law which was to govern them. The war
                                          began. The President issued his proclamation for 75.000
                                          men to engage in the contest. His call was quickly
                                          responded to by the people of all parties. No
                                          Administration was ever more unitedly supported by the
                                          people of the northern and western States than was this
                                          Administration at that time. Congress me and passed the
                                          Crittenden resolution which was
                                    "That ths war on their part, should not be waged in
                                          any spirit of oppression, nor for any purpose of conquest
                                          or subjugation, nor for the purpose of interfering with
                                          the rights or established institutions of those States,
                                          but to defend and maintain the supremacy of the
                                          Constitution and to preserve the Union with all the
                                          dignity, equality and rights of the several States
                                          unimpaired; and that as soon as these objects are
                                          accomplished the war ought to cease."
                                    The passage of that resolution give satisfaction to the
                                          people, The nation took heart, and it was hoped ere long
                                          all would be peace and quiet again. An army of 500,000 men
                                          was asked for and he people, irrespective of party, made
                                          up that army. Indiana furnished her full share, and more;
                                          and I certainly will not claim too much for he Democratic
                                          party, if I say of Indiana's portion of our army
                                          has a least one-half belongs to the Democratic party. I
                                          certainly will no claim too much for the Democratic party
                                          when I say that in the performance of all things for the
                                          comfort of the soldiery and the maintenance of the
                                          families of the soldiery it has been at least as liberal
                                          and devoted as the abolition or republican party.
                                          Proscribed and despised as that party this be en by men
                                          having position and power, it yet has stood by the
                                          Constitution with unfaltering devotion and has done all
                                          within its power for the restoration of the Union.
                                    What fruits have the abolitionists to bring as the results of
                                          their labors for the suppression of the rebellion and he
                                          restoration of the Union? They have abol-  ished slavery in the
                                          District of Columbia without the consent of their owners.
                                          They have enacted a system of the compensated
                                          emancipation, in violation of the Constitution, in
                                          violation of the rights of the States, and unjust and
                                          oppressive of the people. They have passed a law
                                          permitting the testimony of negroes in certain cases
                                          against the whites! They have repealed the law against the
                                          transportation of the mails by the negroes. They have
                                          amended the law making it a high offense for an office of
                                          the army to return a run-away slave to his master;--making
                                          no difference whether that master is loyal or
                                          disloyal.--They have refused to pass a law making it an
                                          offence for an officer to entice away a slave. They have
                                          passed a law authorizing the President to call negroes
                                          into military service, and they are not recruiting them as
                                          soldiers upon terms of equality with the whites. They have
                                          passed a law postponing the investigation of frauds upon
                                          the government for two years. They have passed a law
                                          suspending the writ of habeas corpus and also to indemnify
                                          those who have been participants in the wicked and unjust
                                          arrests which have been made. They have made Washington
                                          City an asylum for "free Americans of African
                                          descent." They have passed a law recognizing as
                                          our equal the negro governments of Liberia and Hayti--one
                                          a pretend republic and the other a despotism, and, in the
                                          language of the Hale and Julian platform, the have
                                          "placed our commercial relations with them on the
                                          footing of the most favored nations." The
                                          president has issued a proclamation attempting to give
                                          freedom of the slaves, making no difference whether they
                                          are owned by loyal or disloyal masters, which by Great
                                          Britain in 1815 was declared to be "a deviation
                                          from the usages of war;" and in which
                                          proclamation the President says: "and the Executive Government of the United States
                                                including the military and naval authority thereof,
                                                will recognize and maintain the freedom of such
                                                persons and do no ac or acts to suppress such
                                                persons or any of them in any efforts they may make
                                                for their actual freedom;"--hereby
                                          leaving them free of commit deeds of butchery, of
                                          assassination and murder, such as were practiced by the
                                          heathens of the dark ages. And to finish this system of
                                          insanity and folly here has been imported from France a
                                          Conscription law which the monarchs of England would
                                          despise and condemn. Lastly, from the commencement of his
                                          rebellion up to the present time, they have been giving
                                          aid and comfort to the South by publishing to them that
                                          there is a large party nor h desirous of the success of
                                          the Southern Confederacy.
                                    The Democratic party does no approve but opposes the conduct
                                          of the Administration, for the reason that such conduct
                                          prolongs rather than shortens the rebellion, and renders a
                                          restoration of the Union the more improbable, if not
                                          impossible.--When the war first broke out Mr. Lincoln said
                                          that here was a majority of Union men in all the southern
                                          States, except it was South Carolina. How is to
                                          day?--Instead of a weak army, as it was in the beginning,
                                          and a divided people, as they then were, they have an army
                                          nearly as large as ours, and they are united people. What
                                          has caused this great change South? It is the conduct of
                                          the present Administration, such conduct that which I have
                                          referred to. The leading spirits of the secessionists in
                                          the South, would take the doings of our administration and
                                          our abolition Congress and submit it to the people as
                                          evidence of the intention of our Administration to crush
                                          out their institution of slavery; and the natural result
                                          was that they became a united people, as they supposed in
                                          the defence of that institution. Not only that, but such
                                          conduct has produced discontent and dissatisfaction at
                                          home. The people are losing confidence in the
                                          Administration. I hope it may pursue a line of policy
                                          which will regain their confidence.
                                    I sincerely hope that the present system of fanatical
                                          legislation will be departed from by the party in power; I
                                          hope that free speech and free press will be respected;
                                          the library of the citizen preserved, and that men in
                                          position will administer the Government in accordance with
                                          the Constitution and the precepts and examines which our
                                          fathers have left us. Let that be done and let a proper
                                          effort be made to restore the Union by the means provided
                                          in the Constitution, and there long will be a united,
                                          happy and prosperous people.
                                    A call of the House showed 56 members in attendance, 37
                                          absent without leave and 7 with leave, when for want of a
                                          quorum the House adjourned to 9 a.m. to morrow.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1863.
                              
                              A report from a committee recommending that the bill H.R.72 (See
                                    page 68) be laid on the table, was concurred in.
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    Mr. Waterman's, [H.R.27] authorizing county officers
                                          to call special sessions of county Boards, in case of the
                                          death of an Auditor or Clerk was passed by yeas 38. nays
                                          0.
                                    Mr. Lamb's [H. R. 143] authorizing Auditors to issue
                                          fee bill for costs before Commissioner's Courts
                                          was passed by yeas 37, nays 0.
                              
                              
                                    NEGRO EXCLUSION.
                                    On motion by Mr. WOLFE the order of business was suspended
                                          and his bill [140] to enforce the 13th article of the
                                          Constitution was taken up.

                                    

                                    The pending motion was to lay the motion to reconsider the
                                          vote to recommit, with instructions, on the table.
                                    The motion to table was rejected yeas 15, nays 27; and the
                                          motion to reconsider agreed to by yeas 27, nays 16.
                                    On motion by Mr. DOWNEY the instructions were amended so as
                                          to make them "to inquire into the
                                          expediency."
                                    Mr. FERGUSON moved to amend by adding: "that no
                                          certificate shall issue to any negro upon his own
                                          evidence, unless corroborated by other testimony; and in
                                          case of the refusal to grant such certificate that the
                                          right of appeal to the courts shall be
                                          given."
                                    Mr. LANDERS opposed the amendment. He was not sent here to
                                          legislate for the negro. The right of appeal would open
                                          the doer for endless litigation.
                                    Mr. RAY thought the instructions to give the right of appeal
                                          useless, it would cause litigation, and in the a vent that
                                          the negro got his certificate, it would not place him in
                                          any better condition. It was not an appeal from a final
                                          judgment, but merely an appeal from an interrogatory.
                                    Mr. BEESON favored the amendment.
                                    Mr. WOLFE was also in favor of the amendment. If wrongs were
                                          committed, either intentionally or unintentionally, there
                                          should be some means left to correct them He would not
                                          accept the amendment for fear that it would jeopardize the
                                          bill.
                                    Mr. RAY said the same proposition of appeal had once before
                                          been offered by the Senator from Delaware [Mr. March] and
                                          voted down.
                                    Mr. MELLETT spoke of the legal effect of the bill with its
                                          several amendments.
                                    Mr. LANDERS wished the vote taken. He feared if it was
                                          debited much longer the Democratic members would get as
                                          full of negro sympathy as were the Republicans. Already we
                                          see two or three of them joining with the Republicans in
                                          their efforts to guard with jealous care the rights of the
                                          negro. More time had been spent over these legal quibbles
                                          than would be given were the legislation for the white
                                          man. He wanted the bill passed, and he wanted a bill that
                                          would effect the object intended.
                                    Mr. BROWNE of Randolph, made an ineffectual motion to make
                                          the amendments imperative--yeas 18, nays 27.
                                    The amendment to the instructions was adopted yeas 27, nays
                                          11 and the motion to recommit agreed to by yeas 29, nays
                                          20.
                              
                              
                                    THE GOVERNOR'S CONTINGENT
                                          FUND.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS said, in presenting the report the majority of
                                          the Committee on Finance [yesterday
                                          forenoon] I had nothing at heart but fairness and justice
                                          to all parties concerned. I shall speak of the minority
                                          report first. Now the minority report goes on to say that
                                          if any meetings of the Committee were had the minority
                                          have no knowledge of it. I will put the Senator from Henry
                                          [Mr. Mellett] on the stand and ask whether there was not
                                          submitted to him in the committee room a copy of the
                                          vouchers embraced in this report within the last 15
                                          days?
                                    Mr. MELLETT. I do not propose to be examined in the manner
                                          and form the gentleman proposes. I will not answer
                                          questions during his speech, but when he is done I will
                                          answer. I do not propose to go into the case a
                                          pettifogging like they do before Justices of the
                                          Peace.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS. The gentleman declines to answer.
                                    Mr. MELLET (interposing.) I desire the Reporter of the
                                          BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS to state that I did not
                                          decline to answer; but if the gentleman will give me an
                                          equal amount of time with him I will answer.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS. The Senator from Vermillion [Mr. Davis] is not
                                          in his seat I believe. I will ask the Senator from Floyd.
                                          [Mr. Bradley.] if he does not recollect of this matter
                                          being submitted to these gentlemen in the committee room
                                          within the last 15 days?
                                    Mr. BRADLEY. I recollect a meeting which the
                                                Committee on Finance had some
                                          days since--
                                    Mr. MELLETT (interrupting.) I call the Senator from Knox [Mr.
                                          Williams] to order. That gentleman has but five minutes
                                          under the rule to make his speech in, and no Senator has
                                          the right to rise upon the floor and bring witnesses on
                                          the stand and make inquiries around. It is unparliamentary
                                          and unusual.
                                    The PRESIDENT (Mr. Moore in the chair.) I suppose he has the
                                          right to ask questions.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS. I will ask leave of the Senate to interrogate
                                          these gentlemen?
                                    Voices"Consent."
                                          "consent," "yeas and
                                          nays."
                                    Mr.BRADLEY. Will the Senator from Knox yield the floor for
                                          one moment?
                                    Mr. MELLETT (interrupting.) I am going to give full testimony
                                          and I apprehend my testimony will not differ from that
                                          which will be given by the gentleman from Knox and Floyd.
                                          I insist it is discourteous for a member to undertake to
                                          call up witnesses to prove certain tacts which he is going
                                          to make a speech upon.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS was not particular.--He denied the assertion
                                          that the minority had no notice of the intention of the
                                          majority to make the report they did, or to meet with them
                                          and examine the facts presented. He would appeal to
                                          members of the minority to bear him out. He controverted
                                          at length the position taken by the minority, and referred
                                          to the acts of the last Legislature to sustain the views
                                          presented by the majority. The record shows  that the act appropriating
                                          $100.000 was passed before the act legalizing the
                                          borrowing of $25.000, and yet it was not signed first by
                                          the Governor, and why? That is for the Senate and the
                                          public to determine. He contended that this fund was drawn
                                          on before it existed; that it had been managed with
                                          irregularity; that an amount had been drawn from the
                                          general fund and disbursed, which should have been drawn
                                          from the contingent fund; that the money was not applied
                                          as the law intended it should be; and proceeded step by
                                          step to prove these statements by official documents and
                                          other papers in his possession.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY. I am satisfied from the facts stated that there
                                          has been some irregularity and error committed in the
                                          paying of chums, as to the fund out of which they should
                                          have been paid. If the Auditor of State has made a mistake
                                          in not drawing from the proper fund, that is the mistake
                                          of the Auditor, and the Governor would not be responsible
                                          for that unless the Senate supposes he is bound to have an
                                          oversight over the Auditor also. I am unwilling by this
                                          report to do any injustice to any one, but still if the
                                          facts operate against an individual or official, of course
                                          that is a matter I do not and can not control. The motion
                                          which I make to amend is in this sentence: "The
                                          Governor quietly put his hands into the Treasury of that
                                          fund and pays the loan of $25,000 while he has $80,000 of
                                          the Governor's contingent fund on hand."
                                          I presume Senators do not desire to make this imputation
                                          unless the facts are such as require it. I am willing to
                                          observe this rule in regard to every official; I will
                                          presume that he has done his duty as the law requires
                                          until facts are shown which shall justify me in corning to
                                          a different conclusion. After carefully listening to both
                                          reports I am unable to bring myself to the conclusion that
                                          there is any intentional wrong shown on the part of the
                                          Executive, and until I am satisfied of that I am not
                                          willing to censure him; and with this report amended as I
                                          propose, it will not place us in the awkard position of
                                          drawing an inference unwarranted by the facts in the case.
                                          I propose to amend the majority report by striking out the
                                          words "the Governor quietly puts his hand into
                                          the treasury of this fund;" and inserting the
                                          words, "the Auditor of State out of this
                                          fund."
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS. If the minority will withdraw their report we
                                          will make the amendment at once.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL. I will say that the Senator has notified my on
                                          several occasions that the Committee on
                                                Finance would meet, but not for the
                                          purpose of examining that matter. I was aware that the
                                          Senator was prosecuting some investigations, but not aware
                                          that he was making them for the purpose of making a
                                          report. I never was informed that the Committee on Finance
                                          were to meet to examine this matter. The main object of
                                          this report seems to be to indicate to the country that
                                          the Governor has been guilty of indiscretions, and to let
                                          it go to the country as an electioneering document The
                                          important charge is that the Governor took out of the
                                          treasury $25,000 improperly--They don't say the
                                          money was improperly used; and they are now willing to
                                          accept of the amendment by the gentleman from Ohio which
                                          takes from the report its virus. I believe the majority
                                          and minority reports show the facts, and I am willing
                                          those two reports shall go to the country side by side. If
                                          discrepancies existed in the accounts of the Auditor, the
                                          Governor was not responsible. And the Auditor of State
                                          should not be censured without first having an opportunity
                                          of showing whether such irregularities existed or not, and
                                          explaining them if they did exist. His character for
                                          integrity could not be impugned. From the time the State
                                          of Indiana was a State until the present time, the
                                          Administration of the Auditors department has not been
                                          more able and honest than under the administration of
                                          Albert Lange.
                                    Mr. MELLETT stated that the Chairman of the committee [Mr.
                                          Williams] had called upon him to look over an abstract of
                                          vouchers, and he had replied that it would be time enough
                                          to look into the matter when the committee clerk found
                                          discrepancies on the Auditor's books, he had no
                                          other notice that the matters stated in the report were to
                                          be embodied there, he admitted there were irregularities
                                          in the account, but there were no charges of
                                          misapplication of the funds, and there could be none. The
                                          Auditor's accounts were susceptible of
                                          explanation, and if a fair chance were given that officer
                                          to defend himself from these charges, without doubt he
                                          could do so satisfactorily. The Governor had clone nothing
                                          in the management of the funds under his control that any
                                          one could take exception to.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. The Finance Committee, sir,
                                          have been careful in their investigations. They quoted the
                                          laws, and showed where the laws had been violated. What is
                                          the use of making laws if the State officers and the
                                          Governor could violate them at pleasure? I take the bold
                                          ground that an officer who would draw a warrant upon a
                                          fund not in existence subjects himself to the heavy
                                          penalties of the embezzlement law. The minority excuse
                                          these violations. The $25.000 which should have been paid
                                          out of the Contingent Fund, as the law contemplated, was
                                          not so paid, and there was a surplus in that fund now.
                                          What use is there of passing a law if it can be set aside
                                          at pleasure? It was a violation of law, and those  who violated the
                                          law deserve punishment for it. It was plead in excuse that
                                          no harm had been done by it. That was no excuse. If the
                                          precedent was set that the Governor could draw without
                                          drawing from any specific fund, it would be useless to
                                          meet here at all. It is an act of men violating the law.
                                          Those men know the law, and it is evident from the facts
                                          in this majority report--which is correct to a
                                          letter--every letter is correct-- that they wanted to keep
                                          a large fund for them to use; and if we sanction this act
                                          of the Governor's it will matter nothing to him
                                          whether we pass appropriation bills or not; he can draw
                                          his warrants upon any money in the treasury without any
                                          law whatever, lie can go along using the public funds as
                                          he pleases. I will not vote to excuse this gentleman for
                                          he don't want to respect the law.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. I think the Committee on
                                                Finance has paid the Governor a high
                                          compliment, for after having worried itself by a long and
                                          learned investigation, and spreading out its report over
                                          numberless pages of foolscap, it has made the discovery,
                                          not that a cent has been used wrongfully, or that frauds
                                          to the amount of a farthing or a dollar have been
                                          committed, against the treasury, or that the people have
                                          lost anything by mismanagement, but that the Auditor of
                                          State has directed his warrant to the wrong fund for
                                          payment. I tell Senators there has been no fraud
                                          committed, even if the facts are true.
                                    Mr. LANDERS. I would ask whether the Senator can explain how
                                          it happened that this order for $25,000 was changed by a
                                          pen mark drawn over it after it was filled out?
                                    Mr. BROWNE. I do not know anything about that. If the Senator
                                          will call upon the Auditor who drew the warrant, if any
                                          such change was made perhaps he can ascertain. He knew
                                          that the warrant in this case had been drawn by the
                                          Auditor without any consultation with the Governor.--The
                                          Governor had paid out of the contingent fund sums properly
                                          chargeable to the General Fund. Large amounts had been
                                          paid out of the contingent fund in aid of our sick and
                                          wounded soldiers. I wish Senators to look at these things
                                          as statesmen and not as partizans.
                                    Mr. RAY. I do not think that any corrupt motive actuated
                                          either the Governor or the Auditor in the irregularity
                                          that all admitted. There was no evidence that the Governor
                                          ever knew, advised or connived at the drawing from the
                                          Military Fund. The simple question is, does the public
                                          interest demand the condemnation of the Auditor. Now if he
                                          done this thing himself for corrupt purposes he ought to
                                          he condemned. It was evidently a violation of the
                                          embezzlement law. But there was no positive evidence of
                                          corruption anywhere. He objected to the language used in
                                          the majority report that the Governor pat his hands into
                                          the Treasury and took what he had no right to. Technically
                                          it was a violation of the embezzlement bill by the
                                          Auditor, and he was willing to say so, but he was
                                          unwilling to charge the Governor with wrong when no
                                          intention of any wrong doing was shown.
                                    Mr. DUNNING (Mr. Moore in the chair.) I have not had an
                                          opportunity of examining the two reports, but I can
                                          briefly state that the object I have in view is simply to
                                          know that no more money has been expended by the officers
                                          of State than what was authorized by law to be expended;
                                          and that there is no double charging of the matter. I have
                                          conversed with Governor Morton in reference to this very
                                          transaction and he informs me upon the honor of a
                                          gentleman, and, as I take it, upon his official oath--for
                                          I take it he is at all times acting under oath when
                                          talking about official matters that he was not in the city
                                          of Indianapolis when this warrant, was drawn; had given no
                                          authority for it; had no personal knowledge of its being
                                          paid; and that it was a master entirely with the Auditor.
                                          Now I am not for throwing censure upon the Auditor. In a
                                          word. if there has been no fraud practiced upon the State
                                          I don't think we ought to be severe in censuring
                                          our authorities. It does not seem to make much difference
                                          whether it was paid out of one fund or the other
                                    Mr. LANDERS (interrupting.) I desire to ask the Senator what
                                          is the use of making appropriations for any purpose at
                                          all? and what is the use of passing the embezzlement
                                          bill?
                                    Mr. DUNNING. I hope the Senator will not understand me as
                                          saying it is right that a warrant should be paid out of a
                                          different fund from what the law has set apart for a
                                          certain object, and I trust he will not think I am likely
                                          to cover up the embezzlement bill. But suppose he gave an
                                          order or certificate for $500 for Legislative expenses,
                                          and the Auditor charged it to the Military Fund, would he
                                          be held liable? Certainly not; let the fault fall upon the
                                          Auditor, Let the law be vindicated but do not censure,
                                          where censure does not properly belong. I have no doubt
                                          the Senator from Knox [Mr. Williams] is doing what he
                                          considers right in the case. I have examined the warrant
                                          and I have seen that it was headed in print
                                          "Military Fund" but there is an erasure.
                                          When the Senator from Randolph [Mr. Browne] appeals to the
                                          Senate to lay aside party. I do not think he appeals in
                                          vain. It will require all we can do, and more I am
                                          fearful, to put down this rebellion as soon as it should
                                          be. We should look to the one grand object.
                                    Mr. COBB. I presume as far as the majority of the committee
                                          is concerned, they 
                                          have done what they conceived to be their duty. I know
                                          they have given this subject their serious consideration;
                                          and there has been a violation of law, if the papers are
                                          not forged. It is nothing but begging the question when
                                          these officers violate a law, to say that they have not
                                          done it corruptly. There is nothing here, so far as I have
                                          examined it, to show that the Governor has done wrong;
                                          but, sir, there is a damnable wrong here somewhere. This
                                          $25,000 was drawn, it would scorn from the heading, from
                                          the Military Contingent Fund, and if drawn upon the
                                          Military Fund it was illegal, because the law making he
                                          appropriation had not been passed Then there was a
                                          palpable violation of law It is well known for what
                                          purpose this embezzlement bill was passed. It was insisted
                                          upon by the Republicans four years ago and by me. We then
                                          passed that law and it was vetoed by Governor Willard. Two
                                          years ago the law was passed by the friends of these
                                          officers and by the votes of Democrats,I voted for it,and
                                          it should not be evaded with impunity.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON said the object of making distinct
                                          appropriations, was that warrants should only be drawn
                                          upon the distinct appropriations, and if that object was
                                          not carried out the law was violated, and those who
                                          violated it should be punished. The law had been violated,
                                          bat it was said without any evil intent. Money had been
                                          taken from one appropriation and applied to another
                                          purpose. The officers of State had no right to do any such
                                          thing. The committee simply showed the State of the facts.
                                          The officers take the law out of the hands of the
                                          Legislature, and this one fund is increased larger than
                                          the Legislature designed it should be. The defense was a
                                          pettifogging one, and the speeches might be appropriate on
                                          the stump, but not here. The report should be printed, and
                                          gentlemen might make their defense before the people, who
                                          were the jury to try the case.
                                    Mr. BEESON said that as a member of the committee he had
                                          failed to find out any thing to warrant the declaration
                                          made by the majority of the committee, that the Governor
                                          had put his hands into the treasury and drawn out $25,000
                                          without warrant of law.
                                    Mr. MURRAY said that the facts elicited by the reports and
                                          debates had convinced him that the Governor's
                                          skirts was clear of the charges preferred.
                                    Mr. BRADLEY. I desire to say one word in regard to the
                                          investigation of the committee. There were two resolutions
                                          passed this body and sent to that committee for the
                                          purpose of ascertaining certain facts: First, to ascertain
                                          whether the $100,000 appropriation was spent according to
                                          law, and the other to see whether the embezzlement law was
                                          violated. The question as to whether the State of Indiana
                                          has received "value received" in the
                                          disbursement of this fund has not been before the
                                          committee. The committee intended to have an investigating
                                          committee to sit after the adjournment to investigate this
                                          fact, but owing to revolutionary measures in the other end
                                          of the capitol that has been frustrated.
                                    Mr. LANDERS contended that investigation so far had and
                                          reported on, did not say that Governor Morton had or had
                                          not applied the money to a proper use. Vouchers were found
                                          for the sums expended, but the committee had not examined
                                          these vouchers, and could not and did not say that they
                                          were given for a proper and praiseworthy purpose.
                                    Mr. RAY said the discussion took a wide range. The question
                                          was simply, did the Governor corruptly thrust his hands
                                          into the Treasury and take money therefrom. He was willing
                                          to say that the Auditor had made an error-- violated the
                                          law technically, but there was no evidence of fraud. The
                                          error was the Auditor's, and therefore he was
                                          willing to vote for the amendment which charged the wrong
                                          where it belonged.
                                    Mr. McCLURG. I think the amendment proposed by the Senator
                                          from Ohio [Mr. Downey] is nothing more than an net of
                                          justice. It does seem to me the justness of the correction
                                          which the amendment demands is so palpable that it can
                                          require but a word to explain it. Her is a proposition
                                          which would indirectly cast an imputation of fraud against
                                          an officer of State. Let his politics be what they may it
                                          is nothing mere than just that we should mete out to him
                                          the merits of his case. The facts in the report itself
                                          does not sustain the inference that would seem to me pat
                                          on it by the report. And I do not apprehend when I shall
                                          vote in favor of the amendment presented by the Senator
                                          from Ohio that I will be voting in favor of a winking at a
                                          violation of the embezzlement law. If these are the only
                                          acts of wrongs or fraud--the only violations of law--that
                                          can be brought against Governor Morton, it does seem to me
                                          to be a small affair to make a fuss about. I would be as
                                          willing to mete out justice to him as any other man,
                                          although I differ with him in everything as far as
                                          politics are concerned.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS. I have no disposition to make charges against
                                          Governor Morton or any other State officer which are not
                                          warranted by facts, as I said in the outset, and I said to
                                          Senators this morning that if they would withdraw the
                                          minority report the correction will be made. That seems to
                                          be about all they complain of for they don't seem
                                          to pay any attention to warrants drawn before, the 21st of
                                          May.
                                    The amendment was agreed to.

                                    

                                    On motion by Mr. MURRAY the minority report was laid on the
                                          table--yeas 26, nays 19.
                                    The majority report was then concurred in--yeas 26, nays
                                          21.
                                    
                                          NEGRO EXCLUSION.
                                          Mr. WOLFE, from a select committee, reported back his
                                                bill [140] to exclude negroes from the State, with
                                                amendments according to instructions adopted this
                                                morning.
                                          The amendments were concurred in and the bill passed by
                                                yeas 27, nays 20--as follows:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bradley,
                                                  Brown, of Wells, Cobb, Corbin, Davis, of Cass,
                                                  Douglass, Downey, Ferguson, Finch, Fleming,
                                                  Fuller, Gifford, Hartley, Hoagland, Hord, Jenkins,
                                                  Johnston, Landers, McClurg, Marshall, Moore, Ray,
                                                  White, Williams, Wilson, Wolfe and Mr.
                                                  President--27.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Bearss,
                                                  Beeson, Berry, Brown, of Randolph, Campbell,
                                                  Claypool, Culver, Davis, of Vermillion, Dickinson,
                                                  Graves, Grubb, Mansfield, March, Mellett, Murray,
                                                  New, Pleak, Reed, Teegarden and Wright.--20
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. DOWNEY, from a select committee, made a report on
                                                the death of Miles J. Fletcher, late Superintendent
                                                of Public instruction, accompanied by appropriate
                                                resolutions,which were unanimously adopted.
                                    
                                    
                                          FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                                          Mr. COBB, from Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations, made a report, returning
                                                sundry resolutions referred to that committee, with
                                                a recommendation that they be laid on the table;
                                                also, reporting a preamble and resolutions on the
                                                state of the Union.
                                          Mr. MARCH, on behalf of the minority of the Fame
                                                committee, submitted a series of resolutions on the
                                                same subject and moved that they be substituted for
                                                the resolutions reported by the majority of the
                                                committee.
                                           The motion was rejected--yeas 20, nays 25.
                                          Mr. MANSFIELD offered as a substitute, a series of
                                                resolutions (the same introduced into the Senate, a
                                                few days ago by Mr. Downey see pages 189 and 190 of
                                                these Reports.
                                          On motion by Mr. COBB the amendment was laid on the
                                                table by yeas 25, nays 23.
                                          Mr. DOWNEY moved to add to the majority resolutions,
                                                the 8th and 9th of the resolutions just laid on the
                                                table, (see page 190.)
                                           Mr. WOLFE offered an amendment declaring that while
                                                this was not, perhaps, the proper time to have an
                                                armistice, yet it was the duty of the government to
                                                favor un armistice when occasion offered without
                                                withdrawing our armies.
                                          On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL the amendment (Mr.
                                                Wolfe's) was laid on the table by yeas 31,
                                                nays 16.
                                          Mr. WOLFE moved to add to the amendment (Mr.
                                                Downey's) "provided that it is the
                                                duty of the President to immediately withdraw his
                                                emancipation proclamation."
                                          The motion was agreed to--yeas 25, nays 22.
                                          The amendment as amended was rejected, by yeas 23, nays
                                                24.
                                          Mr. DOWNEY moved to amend by adding resolution numbered
                                                12 of the series printed on page 190 of these
                                                Reports.
                                          Mr. WOLFE moved to amend by striking our after the
                                                resolving clause and inserting: "That the
                                                charge that the Democratic party or any of its
                                                members was in favor of establishing a Northwestern
                                                Confederacy, the reconstruction of the Union with
                                                any of the States left out, or the attachment to the
                                                Confederacy, is a base and wicked slander. The
                                                Democracy now as ever are for the whole Union with
                                                an unbroken Constitution."
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, said that there were members
                                                of the Democratic party who favored a Northwestern
                                                Confederacy, and it was no falsehood to change that
                                                fact. If the party as a party was opposed to such a
                                                scheme it was proper enough to say so.
                                          Mr. LANDERS. No good Democrat was ever in favor of
                                                anything but the whole Union.
                                          Mr. MELLETT. If the Knights of the Golden Circle, and
                                                all who favored the recognition of the Southern
                                                Confederacy were kicked out of the Democratic party,
                                                we shall beat you terribly at the next election.
                                          The amendment was then adopted by the following
                                                vote:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  YEAS--Messrs. Bradley,
                                                  Brown, of Wells, Cobb, Corbin, Davis, of Cass,
                                                  Douglass, Dunning, Downey, Ferguson. Finch,
                                                  Fleming, Fuller, Gifford, Hartley, Hoagland, Hord,
                                                  Jenkins, Johnston, Landers, McClurg, Marshall,
                                                  Moore, Murray, Kay, Williams, Wilson, and
                                                  Wolfe--27.
                                                  NAYS--Messrs. Besson, Blair,
                                                  Browne, of Randolph, Campbell, Claypool, Culver,
                                                  Davis, of Vermillion, Dickinson, Grubb, Mansfield,
                                                  March, Pleak, Teegarden, and Wright--14.
                                                  REFUSED TO VOTE--Messrs.
                                                  Bearss, Berry, New, and Reed--4.
                                                  EXCUSED--Messrs. Mellett and
                                                  White--2.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          On motion by Mr. DOWNEY the resolutions reported by the
                                                committee were further amended by adding the
                                                resolution numbered 14--printed on page 190 of these
                                                Reports.
                                          Mr. MELLETT moved to amend by adding foundry
                                                resolutions adopted by the soldiers at,
                                                Murfreesboro.
                                          On motion by Mr. HORD they were laid on the table--yeas
                                                24, nays 22.
                                          Mr. BLAIR offered an additional resolution that
                                                resilience to law is revolution, and that any
                                                resistance to the conscription act, the revenue, or
                                                any other law of Congress should be frowned down and
                                                promptly met and suppressed by proper authority.
                                          Mr. RAY said the same thing was better expressed in the
                                                majority report, and he would move to table the
                                                amendment.

                                          

                                          The motion was agreed to by yeas 25. nays 21.
                                          Mr. MURRAY moved to further amend by adding the
                                                following:
                                          
                                                
                                                  
                                                  And be it further resolved,
                                                  That the same measure of condemnation implied of
                                                  the soldier who deserts his post, is hereby meted
                                                  out to all other servants of the Government absent
                                                  from their posts, be they Judges, Jurors, or
                                                  Legislators, and that there is no obligation
                                                  resting on one class to discharge their duties
                                                  according to law and the obligations of their
                                                  oaths, which are not equally applicable to and
                                                  binding on the other.
                                                  
                                                
                                          
                                          Mr. COBB demanded the previous question, which was
                                                sustained, and under its operation the amendment was
                                                adopted-yeas 34, nays 11.
                                          The resolutions were adopted as a whole by yeas 26,
                                                nays 17.
                                    
                                    
                                          REVENUE BILL.
                                          The bill H. R. 139, to raise revenue for 1863 and 1864,
                                                was read the third time and passed, by yeas 42, nays
                                                0.
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NIGHT SESSION.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells, offered a resolution raising a committee
                                          of five to investigate frauds in the Quartermasters
                                          Department, and other expenditures, with power to sit
                                          forty days after the adjournment of the Legislature, and
                                          to send for persons and papers.
                                    Mr. MOORE moved to strike out five and insert three.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL. I am opposed to the investigation because no
                                          respectable person makes a charge. I ask will Senators on
                                          this floor vote out of the Treasury of this State four,
                                          five, six or ten thousand dollars for the purpose of
                                          gratifying the idle curiosity of some one? I shall vote
                                          upon this measure out of regard to the public Treasury of
                                          the State, out of regard to the public interests and the
                                          spirit of justice that ought to control it. Why, sir, has
                                          it come to pass that no man can occupy a public
                                          position--an office, no matter how well he does it that
                                          some committee shall not be appointed to go around, to
                                          investigate and hunt up charges, when the searching eye of
                                          party for two years, fails to get up charges against him?
                                          Sir, I would not do it unless some respectable gentleman
                                          preferred a charge against him. The political status of
                                          Indiana is low enough, God knows, and I ask that Senators
                                          will not give it another kick and knock it still lower. I
                                          trust Senators are not willing to do this thing; and trust
                                          no Senator wants to be upon such a committee. I trust the
                                          resolution will be voted down; and that will deprive
                                          members on this floor of the opportunity to vote in myself
                                          or my friend from Wells [Mr. Brown.] But suppose such a
                                          committee were organized, what could they do? They
                                          meet--no charges are preferred, and they go to work
                                          smelling around the purlieus of the public offices, and
                                          summons A, B and C, and ask them if they know anything
                                          about frauds. If there is a single, solitary Senator upon
                                          this floor willing to make a charge of malfeasance against
                                          any officer I would vote for a resolution authorizing an
                                          investigating committee.
                                    Mr. BROWN, of Wells. Mr. President: I regard it as a healthy
                                          sign for the Senator who has just preceded me to say that
                                          he is in favor of an investigation when any Senator will
                                          make a charge of sufficient importance to warrant it. But
                                          he says no Senator has made any charge upon this floor
                                          against any public official. The gentleman certainly could
                                          not have been present the other day when I read to the
                                          Senate from Mr. Washburne's report of the Select
                                          Committee of Congress appointed by the House to examine
                                          into the Government contracts. Let me refer him sir, to
                                          the charges made by that Republican investigating
                                          committee. Let me refer him to what was said on the floor
                                          of Congress, by Mr. Van Wyck, of New York, a Republican,
                                          and chairman of that investigating committee that
                                          "the mania for stealing seemed to have run
                                          through all the relations of Government; from those
                                          nearest the throne of power down to the merest tide-waiter
                                          every man who dealt with the Government seemed to feel or
                                          desire that it would not long survive, and to think that
                                          each had a common right to plunder it while It
                                          lived." And if this be insufficient, then let me
                                          call the gentleman's attention to the statement
                                          made in this chamber the other day by the Senator from
                                          Lawrence (Mr. Cobb) that the poor laborer in the State
                                          Arsenal was compelled to pay a certain per centage of bis
                                          scanty earnings as the price at which only he could retain
                                          his place.
                                    But let us see what the Congressional investigating committee
                                          say. They come to our own State--they make due
                                          investigations and say that the Quartermaster in this city
                                          has performed his duties in such a manner as compels them
                                          to question his fidelity. And they stop not with this
                                          statement. They intimate further, that if Mr. Vajen (they
                                          speak of him by name) had been a United States'
                                          officer instead of a State official, his conduct would
                                          warrant a special report, and they impliedly advise the
                                          State authorities to give his transactions a rigid
                                          investigation.
                                    The gentleman speaks about the mere matter of expense. A
                                          small item it will be, sir. Three men to sit forty days at
                                          three dollars a day amounts to $360, and the contingent
                                          expenses might be $50 more. But say it will cost $500;
                                          what is five hundred dollars on the part of the State of
                                          Indiana? Why, sir, I can go into my own district and
                                          easily raise enough by subscription to pay the expenses of
                                          this committee, and my people would willingly pay it for
                                          the satisfaction of knowing  who have discharged their
                                          duties well who have been faithful to the trust and
                                          confidence reposed in them and who have not.
                                    But what will be the moral effect, sir, of voting this
                                          resolution down? It has been charged upon one State
                                          official, at least, that he has violated the trust
                                          committed to him, and if he be not brought to an account,
                                          may not others commit more frauds, thinking to escape?
                                          They can say there was not a majority of this Legislature
                                          in favor of investigating the conduct of recreant
                                          officials. They can say the honorable Senator from
                                          Lawrence made a charge fro in his seat in this Senate that
                                          laborers in the arsenal were compelled to buy their
                                          situations there with a per cent-age of their hard earned
                                          pay, and the Legislature refused to investigate the
                                          matter, therefore, we may commit frauds, peculations, yea,
                                          steal as much as we wish without fear of the
                                          Legislature.
                                    Mr. President, I must refer again to the matter of cost. The
                                          gentleman says it will cost something. I have intimated it
                                          may cost five hundred dollars. What is the small pittance
                                          of five hundred dollars to the great State of Indiana?
                                          Why, the public treasury of the country is drawn upon
                                          every day to the amount of a million of dollars, without
                                          the objections of these gentlemen, to carry on an ungodly
                                          civil war that should never have been commenced and ought
                                          not to be prosecuted one day longer, and yet they object
                                          to paying five hundred dollars for the purpose of seeing
                                          what has been the extent of these transactions which, an
                                          honorable Senator says upon this floor, smack of
                                          peculation, fraud and dishonesty. They are in favor of
                                          draining the treasury of its last dollar and the North of
                                          its last man in the prosecution of this destructive civil
                                          war, and yet cannot vote live hundred dollars for this
                                          investigation. For one, sir, I want to know what Senators
                                          will refuse to vote for this investigation on this
                                          ground.
                                    I desire to say one word further. This is a matter I have had
                                          under my especial care and charge, and the resolutions
                                          which have been introduced here, exhibiting towards me
                                          parliamentary discourtesy, hall not affect in the least my
                                          purpose to prosecute it to an ultimate termination. But
                                          gentlemen, or men, I will say, who can so far forget the
                                          courtesy due to a fellow Senator, shall hereafter receive
                                          from me the treatment that is due to any one but a
                                          gentleman. I, sir, am the peer of any man upon this floor.
                                          I, sir, by the laws of the State, represent as honorable a
                                          constituency as any man here. I, sir, have had reposed in
                                          me the confidence of a people who expect me to do my duty
                                          in this Senate chamber, and I will march straight forward
                                          in its pursuit, regardless of the ungentlemanly
                                          insinuations implied by any such resolutions.
                                    Sir, I intend to favor this resolution until I get it through
                                          the Senate, or it falls. I shall discharge my duty at any
                                          rate.
                                    The resolution was adopted by yeas 27, nays 9.
                                    The PRESIDENT made the committee on the part of the Senate to
                                          consist of Messrs. Brown, of Wells, Cobb and Claypool.
                                          Messrs. Wolfe and Browne, of Randolph, were added to the
                                          committee by a resolution of the Senate.
                                     The bill [H. R. 69] prohibiting the State Librarian from
                                          letting books go outside of the capitol building, was
                                          passed by yeas 34, nays 0.
                                    Mr. DUNNING offered a resolution, which was adopted, fixing
                                          the compensation of the Secretaries and their Assistants
                                          at $4 per day, and the Doorkeeper, the Assistant
                                          Doorkeeper, and their employees at $3 50 per day.
                              
                              
                                    THANKS TO THE PRESIDENT.
                                    On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL it was--
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the thanks of
                                                  the Senate be, and the same are hereby tendered to
                                                  the Hon. PARIS C. DUNNING, for the prompt,
                                                  dignified and impartial manner in which he has
                                                  presided over the deliberations of the Senate
                                                  during the present Session.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    The bill H. R. 75 (see page 82) was read the third time.
                              
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    FRIDAY, March 6, 1863.
                              
                              Mr. HOLCOMB made a report from the select committee appointed last
                                    session on the Wabash and Erie Canal.
                              Mr. PUETT offered a resolution, which was adopted, referring the
                                    report and the accompanying documents to a select committee of
                                    three, with leave to sit during the recess and report at the
                                    next session.
                              A call of the House revealed the fact that but 60 members were in
                                    attendance, to-wit:
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Messrs. Abbett, Atkison, Bird, Blocher, Brogan,
                                                  Brown, Burton, Cass, Collins, Cook, De Bruler,
                                                  Donaldson, Ferris, Garvin, Given, Hall, Hanna,
                                                  Harden, of Washington, Hardin of Perry, Harney.
                                                  HetfieLd, Holcomb, Hon, Howard, Howell, Howk,
                                                  Humphreys, Kemp, of Dubois, Kemp, of Vigo,
                                                  Kilgore, Lake, Lasselle, Lee, Leramon, of
                                                  Harrison, Lemmon, of Spencer, Mason, McGaughey,
                                                  Miller, Milroy, Mutz, Niblack, O'Brien,
                                                  of Martin, Osborn, Packard,Priest, Puett, Reitz,
                                                  Richardson, Rippey, Robinson, Ryan, Shaffer,
                                                  Shoaff, of Allen, Shoaff, of Jay, Veach, Waterman,
                                                  Williams, Wolfe, Woollen and Mr. Speaker--60.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              The following named members were ascertained to be absent by leave
                                    of the House, to-wit:
                              Messrs Marshall, Pendleton, Roberts and Spencer--4.
                              The following named members were found to be absent without leave,
                                    viz :
                              Messrs. Abdill, Anderson, Baker, Byerle, Branham, Budd, Cason,
                                    Chambers, Davis, Forester,Gregg, Gregory, Griffith, Hershey,
                                    Higgins, Hostetter, Hutchings, James, Johnson, Jones, Kendrick,
                                    Lamb, Leeds, Moorman, Morgan, Mustard, Newman, Noyes,
                                    O'Brien, of Hamilton, Perry, Pettibone, Roe, Stone,
                                    Tarkington, Van Buskirk, and Woodruff--36.
                        

                        

                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    SATURDAY, March 7, 1863.
                              
                              The hour of 9 o'clock being the time named for the
                                    consideration of the majority report of the Committee
                                          on Federal Relations, in response to the
                                    memorials from the army
                              Mr. MARCH presented the minority report from the same committee,
                                    which was read. He said that it had been proposed on a former
                                    day to print a large number of copies of the majority report. It
                                    was in most part a political document, and there was no reason
                                    why any political document should be printed at the
                                    State's expense He doubted the policy of circulating
                                    such documents among the soldiers. If controversy or bitterness
                                    of feeling existed in the army, it would only serve to increase
                                    it. There was no necessity for the Senate's vindicating
                                    itself. It should be judged by its own acts. But if the Senate
                                    should determine to print the majority report, he should insist
                                    that the minority be printed also.
                              Mr. WOLFE had no objection to printing the minority report. It was
                                    a gentle backing down of the Republican party from the charges
                                    made against the Democratic party. It was as good as could be
                                    expected of a political or partisan document. It was couched in
                                    respectful language, and probably arrived at the same conclusion
                                    with that of the majority report. The latter report defends the
                                    Democratic party from charges of disloyalty, while the minority
                                    is a defence of the course of the party that contributed to give
                                    publicity to those charges. He did not think the circulation of
                                    these documents would have any bad effect. On the contrary, both
                                    reports would go to show the utter untruth of the imputations
                                    cast upon the Legislature.
                              Mr. HORD. It seems that these resolutions gotten up by the army are
                                    directed exclusively to the Democratic party on this floor.
                                    Senators over the way, when they were introduced, said they were
                                    not directed to them. Then I say it is due to the dominant party
                                    to respond to them.--These gentleman who introduced the minority
                                    report have responded to resolutions not directed to them. Then
                                    why print their report? Why subject the State to the expense of
                                    vindicating themselves when no charge is brought against them? I
                                    say it is useless, but I do hold, as the majority are accused of
                                    high crimes, that it is necessary to print the majority report,
                                    which is a complete vindication of the charges brought against
                                    them.
                              And now, Mr. President, I shall beg indulgence a very brief space
                                    of time for the purpose of succinctly stating my views on a few
                                    of the political questions engaging public attention. Every
                                    citizen in the land, whether he pursues life in an humble and
                                    obscure way, or whether lifted up on the pedestal of power and
                                    fame, feels deeply interested in the current of events around
                                    him. The torch of discord and civil war now lights up the broad
                                    land, and the place dedicated by our fathers to freedom and a
                                    common friendship is changed to a field of bloodshed and
                                    carnage--a war the most bloody and desperate the heavens ever
                                    looked upon since the morning stars first sang together:
                                    involving the existence of the freest and grandest Government
                                    that ever honored the wisdom of men. From thirteen Colonies that
                                    nestled on the Atlantic Coast we had grown with strange haste
                                    until our country's banner stretched from the Lakes to
                                    the Gulf,and from the rising to the setting sun; and, take it
                                    all in all, it seemed that nature had framed us for one
                                    affection, one progress, and one hope--having reciprocal
                                    interests, and bound together in bonds of friendship as by hooks
                                    of steel. But alas, sir, the fiend has crept into the Garden of
                                    Eden, and destroyed the paradise we once enjoyed. That fiend
                                    that has mocked at our happiness, that has beguiled us into
                                    contentions, and undermined our country, is nothing more nor
                                    less than Slavery Agitation. When the
                                    Constitution of the American people was made, twelve of the
                                    States then composing the Union held slaves, and that
                                    Constitution was so constructed that it left each State to rule
                                    its domestic matters as suited its discretion; such powers not
                                    granted to the General Government being reserved to the States
                                    respectively. Some of the States freed themselves from the
                                    burden of slavery by a system of emancipation, whilst others
                                    have retained the institution to the present time, and the
                                    Government, though part slave and part free, has traversed its
                                    prosperous course shedding upon every one all that was
                                    delectable in Government.
                              I do not stand here the apologist of slavery--to vindicate the
                                    propriety of shackles upon any human being, but I do, sir,
                                    pretend to vindicate the doctrine founded on a peaceful and
                                    prosperous experience, that free and slave States can exist
                                    together, under one and the same Constitution, under one flag,
                                    and in one Union; and the Democratic party, that possessed the
                                    helm of State from the beginning of the Government up to the
                                    year 1861, almost uninterruptedly, held to this constitutional
                                    view of our political questions, and by it the olive branch has
                                    been kept alive, peace has shed its selectest influences, and
                                    men and earth gave signs of gratulation. The Constitution, like
                                    a great solar system; the States, like planets, depended upon
                                    and drew life and power from it; and any interference of one
                                    with the other, drives each from its orbit, and political chaos
                                    must inevitably follow, until God shall create men with
                                    different tastes and passions.

                              

                              We have a party in this country that does not believe this Union
                                    can exist part slave and part free; and that party since the
                                    year 1856 has grown great in its dimensions, and now possesses
                                    that helm of Government. There is nothing inherent in slavery
                                    itself to make it inconsistent with existence of the Union, but
                                    it appears there is something in its agitation. The agitation of
                                    the slavery question has created hostile feelings in both
                                    sections of the country, and from these seeds has sprung
                                    war.
                              But why speak of the past? Our misfortunes are heavy on our backs
                                    and they seem to thicken liked the sands of the sea. Let us turn
                                    our eyes to our stricken country, and see if we can lift the
                                    cloud that obscures us, and with our hand and reason give aid to
                                    our cause. I would love, sir, to see this country united and
                                    peaceable once more; but believing the policy that dictated the
                                    radical measures of the past Congress, and the
                                    President's proclamation, was not the safest for the
                                    country, I certainly cannot concur in them. Time has already
                                    tested the worth of the Presidential edict. In the first
                                    campaign of this war the leaders of the rebellion could only
                                    raise 300,000 men with whom to execute their madness against the
                                    Government, and with 500,000 men we overthrew the enemy, and
                                    possessed nearly all of the Southern soil. When the war
                                    commenced the North was a united people, and the South was
                                    divided in its sentiment. Some Southern men still clung to the
                                    folds of their country's flag for existence and
                                    protection, but after the radical measures of Congress, and the
                                    President's proclamation, the Southern army immediately
                                    increased to 700,000, and it took a million of our valiant boys
                                    to hold what 500,000 had conquered. These measures solidified
                                    the South. Instead of emasculating the rebellion, they have
                                    armed and intensified it.
                              I do not esteem the policy of the measure to arms the negroes of
                                    the South. Not, sir, that I abstractedly object to negroes
                                    aiding to restore the Union, for I would hitch the devil to the
                                    Chariot of the Union, if he could drag it safely from the flames
                                    of this discord uninjured, but I believe it, sir, impolitic.
                                    This measure authorizes the recruiting officer to go into
                                    Kentucky, and take the negro of the loyal master. Would this
                                    perpetuate a Union sentiment in the South? A man loves his
                                    Government in proportion as he is protected by it. It is our
                                    duty to serve the loyal man, and give him an argument, in the
                                    protection he shall receive but I believe, sir, this measure
                                    will alienate the loyal sentiment in a country where we need it.
                                    We gain more for our cause in nerving the strong arm of the
                                    white man in the border States by pacific measures towards them,
                                    than by driving them from us in arming slaves whose spirits have
                                    been dastardized by long servitude; and it appears that in some
                                    localities our soldiers have mutinied on account of the
                                    employment of negro soldiers. Let us as a nation be politic and
                                    wise, but the Republican party have great confidence in the
                                    measure. They esteem the negro as one of the ordained
                                    instruments of protection. I advise them against such a delusive
                                    and fallacious hope. With them "There is a poor,
                                    blind Samson in the land, Shorn of his strength and bound
                                    by bonds of steel, Who may, in some grim revel lift his
                                    hand, And shake the pillars of the Southern weal, Till the vast temple of their
                                    liberties A shapeless mass of wreck and rubbish
                                    lies."
                              Let us, sir, in this dreadful state of things, adopt the means by
                                    which the greatest good can be attained. There is statesmanship
                                    in war as well as in peace. But when shall this contest cease?
                                    When shall grim-visaged war smooth his wrinkled front ? We have
                                    had an uninterrupted clash of arms for two years past without
                                    knowing whether these multiplied troubles could be compromised
                                    in any way suitable to the interest and dignity of both
                                    sections. This sad havoc could have been stayed on the
                                    principles of the Crittenden Compromise before our troubles
                                    culminated in war; and when the State of Virginia called for a
                                    Peace Congress the States then could have stayed its red right
                                    hand by proper adjustment, but the Congress of the United States
                                    would not listen to the voice of compromise; no terms of
                                    pacification could find responsive pulsations in their hearts.
                                    Ah! reason had reeled from its throne, and madness ruled. Then
                                    let some measures be had to discover whether the rebellious
                                    States are willing to accede now to terms of honorable
                                    settlement in one Union, contented with a common destiny; with
                                    the Constitution as a shield to life, liberty and estate. If
                                    they yield to proper terms, then we have an end to sad
                                    calamities. If not, our course will create division in the
                                    South, because men will not fight for rebellion when proper
                                    terms of adjustment have been offered and refused. Then, with a
                                    united North and a divided South, we have a surer pathway to
                                    success, for "Thrice is he armed who hath his
                                    quarrel just, And he but naked, though locked up in steel,
                                    Whose heart with injustice is corrupted."
                              But I regret that I cannot put trust in a the Administration of the
                                    party in power. While it has been impotent in its efforts to
                                    restore the country, it has been encroaching on the liberties of
                                    the people. It has arrested men without warrant, refused them
                                    the writ of habeas corpus--that great muniment
                                    of human liberty--refused them a trial, and held them without
                                    charging them with crime to pine and rot in filthy prisons; and
                                    all this, sir, when the Courts were open, and all crime against
                                    the Government could be properly punished, if any crime had been
                                    committed. And the Congress of the United  States, truculent and
                                    obsequious, has passed laws indemnifying the President for his
                                    unconstitutional conduct in making false arrest and imprisonment
                                    of American citizens. It has also put the money-making power in
                                    his hands, and passed a conscription bill that totally
                                    obliterates State lines; assails the reserved rights and
                                    sovereignty of the States; putting the whole militia of the
                                    States in the President's hands, subject to his own
                                    control, without the intervention of State authorities, and
                                    making his will the scope of justice to all who exist within the
                                    shadow of his power. Here is a basis for tyranny. A union of the
                                    purse and the sword in the same hands, the separation of which
                                    has been the pride and glory of our past history, and the object
                                    of every wise Government that seeks the protection of the
                                    liberty of its citizens.
                              It is useless to be oblivious to the truth. Our form of government
                                    is being changed by the party in power. It is centralizing power
                                    in the hands of a few. If the war continues much longer on the
                                    policy adopted by the Administration, with its disregard of the
                                    Constitution and the laws of the country, I have fears for the
                                    liberty of the people, and we may well have visions of a
                                    Cromwell, Dictators, and a tyranny in the future.
                              But I hope, sir, that the banner of our country, carried by our
                                    gallant soldiers through the red baptism of blood to victory,
                                    may wave over a free and united country, and "that all
                                    the clouds that lower upon us may be buried in the deep bosom of
                                    the ocean, our bruised arms hung up for monuments, our stern
                                    alarums changed to merry meetings, and dreadful marches to
                                    delightful measures."
                               Mr. MELLETT. I know it is a common thing for the Democratic party
                                    to say that the Government is made for the benefit of the white
                                    man exclusively, but I think my friend from Bartholomew [Mr.
                                    Hord] is progressing a step further. I have no doubt my friend
                                    believes that the Government is made for the entire benefit and
                                    use of the Democratic party and nobody else. In effect he says
                                    that the people--the Abolotionists in my district, who he holds
                                    have no right that Democrats are bound to respect--are to pay
                                    taxes to publish his vindication to the soldiers, and have no
                                    right to hear from our side of the House. He says he wants to be
                                    vindicated. I think he has vindicated himself. I believe he
                                    offered a resolution proposing to resist the conscription act.
                                    Our soldiers have said a man that would do that is not loyal.
                                    And yesterday he voted against a resolution declaring in favor
                                    of an armistice. Upon the record my friend stands condemned;
                                    doubly condemned.--I am not surprised that he don't
                                    want anybody else to say something about his record. But he will
                                    learn before his head gets gray that there is something else in
                                    the United States besides the Democratic party. Now my advice is
                                    to be not quite so radical, and come to the conclusion that even
                                    the Democratic party may not always succeed; that there is
                                    something good outside of the party; that fair dealing is always
                                    right in all cases, and if the people are to be taxed for
                                    printing a report made by one half of the Senate, they should
                                    pay for printing the report of the other half. But I do not care
                                    one farthing whether you print our report or not; it makes no
                                    difference to me personally. We can print it ourselves. This
                                    little Republican party--this contemptible Abolition party--
                                    have more papers, more types, more brains, and more printing
                                    presses than you--infinitely more. We double you in printing
                                    presses and have always done it. Go anywhere and you will find
                                    the Republicans always have more type and printing presses than
                                    the Democrats. Now if you don't want to print our
                                    report, don't do it.
                               Mr. DOUGLASS. At the very opening of this session the two
                                    political parties of which this body is composed commenced a
                                    contest of railing against each other. It has been pretty well
                                    kept up, and I find in all probability that the session will
                                    close with it. However that may be, let me say, Mr. President,
                                    that the Republicans on the very first day intimated that they
                                    had suspicions against the Democratic portion as to their
                                    loyalty. They have carried it out in their every act, and their
                                    every step, and in every word spoken in this body. Their
                                    speeches made in the city of Indianapolis contain direct
                                    reference to the Democratic portion of the Legislature, in which
                                    they have denounced us. Their denunciations have been published
                                    in their papers and sent to the army, and this is why these
                                    resolutions have come up from the army. This is the reason why
                                    Democrats in this body have been assailed as they have, and this
                                    is the reason why the majority of the Committee on
                                          Federal Relations have made the Report they have
                                    to set ourselves right as true and loyal men. Even Republican
                                    members upon this floor have said they did not doubt but that we
                                    were loyal men, and that they did not supposed there was a
                                    disloyal man in this branch, and I believe in the Legislature
                                    entire; yet when we set forth in our answer that this body have
                                    no disloyal views to carry out; when we wish to disabuse the
                                    minds of the soldiers in the army, they oppose it. They
                                    don't wish to have their minds disabused. They would
                                    rather have the army think the Democracy were disloyal than to
                                    have them think the Democracy were loyal.
                              You are opposed to political extremes, and you are stirring them up
                                    eternally; and when the Democracy make any attempt towards
                                    setting the soldiers right upon this matter, you are opposed to
                                    that.  You are afraid the
                                    army will have faith and confidence in the Democratic party, and
                                    you are working might and main against it. You would rather have
                                    the army under the conviction that the Democratic portion of the
                                    North were disloyal to a man. You are jealous of the Democratic
                                    party. When a Democrat volunteers, you are jealous of it; and
                                    when a Democrat makes a speech to the army you are jealous of
                                    it. You want to have it all in your own hands--in your own
                                    power,--and even now I see when we attempt to set ourselves
                                    right you are opposed to it.I am opposed to that minority report
                                    from the fact that it contains sentiments which I cannot
                                    endorse. If it is printed let it be printed as a document. If it
                                    is printed let it be printed merely out of courtesy; but I want
                                    the majority report sent to the army, that they may see--that
                                    they may know for themselves that the Democracy are not
                                    disloyal, but that they are ready and willing to stand up for
                                    that unity of Government--the Union--the entire Union.
                              When we say we are opposed to a Northwestern Confederacy then again
                                    you are jealous. There has not been an individual on this floor
                                    who has intimated that he was in favor of a Northwestern
                                    Confederacy. Then why not have unity in the Legislature and let
                                    the army know we are united, as far as the Union is concerned
                                    and as far as the Constitution is concerned?
                              The gentleman from Henry [Mr. Mellett] says they have more type and
                                    presses and papers than we. Yes, well may he say it; and in a
                                    short time they will have all of them, for they are demolishing
                                    Democratic presses one after another until bye and bye we will
                                    not have a Democratic press left us. Saturday night Samuel
                                    Medary's press went down--one after another they are
                                    blotted, out by this loyal party.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL. I trust we will adjourn with the kindliest feelings,
                                    one for another. The minority are willing that the majority
                                    report shall go to the army, but we want the privilege of
                                    sending along with it another love letter; for I confess I never
                                    read a document from the time I was twelve years of age till the
                                    present time that was so much fashioned after the love letters
                                    printed in the little books entitled "Letter
                                    Writers." It is said that the army is composed of a
                                    large number of Democrats, and are we not to woo them? Another
                                    thing, if this army is, composed rank and file of Democrats. I
                                    want to know who it was that mobbed the printing office of Sam.
                                    Medary? Who tore down a printing press in Eastern Indiana, if
                                    they are all Democrats? Now I do not believe everything the
                                    Senator said. I believe there are Democrats in the army, and
                                    loyal Democrats on this floor and throughout this whole country;
                                    and no one thing on this earth could afford me more consolation
                                    than to know that parties North and South were one in their
                                    loyalty to this Union, that they were one in their devotion to
                                    the flag of their country; and I shall say no word nor do no act
                                    to deprive either party in the North from coming to that
                                    conclusion; and I shall say no word nor do no act that will
                                    prevent both parties sending to the army such a consoling
                                    thought. Then let us send these love letters to the army, and
                                    let them read and understand and believe that we are truly loyal
                                    in the North. I know the chairman of the minority, who drafted
                                    that minority report, carefully avoided any allusion to that
                                    party that was calculated to cause an unjust suspicion, and if
                                    there was in that report any such insinuation, I would not
                                    sanction that report, although I might say it was true; but I do
                                    not believe it is true. Do you want to send out a statement of
                                    the Democratic party at the public expense, and refuse to let
                                    the Republican party be heard? That would bo unkind. There are
                                    things in the majority report I know Republicans subscribe to,
                                    and things in the minority report which Democrats subscribe to.
                                    I believe the Democratic party as a party is loyal, but before
                                    sixty days it will be still more loyal. I believe those not
                                    willing to offer up their rights for their country will be
                                    denounced from one end of this land to the other. The finger of
                                    scorn should be pointed at them. But let us adjourn in peace,
                                    and with glad words to the soldiers that the North is a unit for
                                    the maintenance of the Union of the States unbroken-- the old
                                    Union undivided--that while it may be true we disagree with
                                    reference to the proclamation of emancipation, we believe the
                                    Union must and shall be preserved. Let it be understood that
                                    there is not upon the floor of this Senate a Senator who is not
                                    willing to forego all his interests here, and I might say
                                    hereafter, for the maintenance intact add unbroken of the Union
                                    of these States.
                              Mr. BROWN, of Wells. The Senator from Henry [Mr. Mellett]
                                    enlightened us on one point that I was not aware of. He is a
                                    gentleman of great age and experience, and takes it upon himself
                                    to advise young Senators upon this floor, as if he were the
                                    embodyment of wisdom. He gives us a piece of information, viz:
                                    that, the Abolition party possesses more brains than the
                                    Democratic party.
                               Mr. BROWN, of Randolph, (in his seat.) Do you doubt it?
                              Mr. BROWN of Wells. Yes sir, I do; but it is a good joke on brains
                                    if it is so. But I wish to invite the attention of the Senate to
                                    the assertions and charges made against me because of my humble
                                    efforts in this Senate Chamber in behalf of peace, A great cry
                                    came up from the people to me,--it came up to this General
                                          Assem-bly--asking,
                                    for the sake of humanity, to do something to stop this bloody
                                    and desolating war. In response to that cry I introduced
                                    resolutions into this Senate proposing an armistice and a peace
                                    convention. This has brought down upon me denunciations from the
                                    press, from the hustings, from the pulpit and from the other end
                                    of the capitol. It has also brought denunciations from the army
                                    in the field--I won't say from the soldiers. In the
                                    other end of the capitol a gentleman whose name itself suggests
                                    to me the idea of murder and other horrible kinds of things, has
                                    assailed me and called me a traitor--except I lack the
                                    intention; and upon last Sabbath, sir, in one of the pulpits of
                                    this city I was indirectly assailed as a traitor to my country.
                                    Now let me say to every Senator upon this floor, and let it go
                                    forth to the country, that there is no man on top of the earth
                                    who loves his country more than I do; and, sir, if I believed
                                    that by prosecuting this war, the rebellion could be stopped I
                                    would go tomorrow--I would be ready to enlist with the Senator
                                    from Fayette and go to the field to morrow to fight for that
                                    purpose. But there is an honest conviction in my heart that this
                                    war can never accomplish the purpose which they or I design. The
                                    only difference between us then is as to the means we would use;
                                    similar to the difference between the religious sects both
                                    desiring to go to heaven--both desiring to secure for themselves
                                    the blessings of a hereafter--yet each pursuing different means
                                    and bearing in different channels for the accomplishment of the
                                    same purpose. So I stand side by side with the Senator from
                                    Fayette or any other Senator, hoping that the country may yet
                                    enjoy the blessings it has heretofore enjoyed.
                              Those resolutions of mine have been denounced in the same spirit
                                    that the Hartford Convention was denounced. Now I desire to say
                                    that there is this difference between that Convention and the
                                    Convention I propose. That was an assembly of the
                                    representatives of but a portion of the States--the New England
                                    States, in a time of war against the government by a foreign
                                    power; while this would be an assembling of 3/4ths of the States
                                    of the entire Union in times of civil war. That was a secret
                                    body; and the Convention I propose is one open to the scrutiny
                                    and observation of the whole world. That was held with the view
                                    of taking the States to a foreign power, while the Convention I
                                    propose is one to restore the Union with the dignity of the
                                    several States unimpaired.
                              The proposition I introduced is not without precedent. Early in the
                                    history of this rebellion there came from Virginia and North
                                    Carolina a proposition to the various States which composed the
                                    Confederacy, for a Convention of States to take into
                                    consideration the impending difficulties; but I find no where is
                                    that Convention condemned as traitorous or treasonable. No
                                    longer ago than in 1861. Virginia proposed a peace Convention,
                                    and that was not denounced as a treasonable convention. Indeed,
                                    but the other day in the halls of Congress an honorable member
                                    of the Republican party proposed a cessation of hostilities and
                                    a separation of our glorious Union. It was Mr. Conway, of
                                    Kansas.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL (interrupting.) Conway is not now in that party. We
                                    denounce him.
                              Mr. BROWN. I looked in vain for memorials to come up from the army
                                    denouncing him. I have read the proceedings of Congress, too,
                                    without finding any of the members on either side of the House
                                    denouncing Mr. Conway as a traitor to his country, or making any
                                    insinuations against that gentleman's loyalty, such as
                                    has been made against me by members of this Legislature. Then
                                    what is the conclusion I come to from these facts? I come to the
                                    conclusion that the army can endorse the principles of men who
                                    look to a dissolution of the Union, while they do not endorse
                                    the sentiments and principles of a man who looks to a cessation
                                    of hostilities with a view of restoring the country to its
                                    former glory. If, sir, to be loyal is to favor a cessation of
                                    hostilities with a view to the dissolution of this Union, I do
                                    not wish to be loyal; and if it is to be a traitor to my country
                                    to propose a cessation of hostilities with a view to restoring
                                    the Union with all its dignity, equality and rights unimpaired,
                                    then, sir, let the word be written upon my brow, and I will wear
                                    it proudly there. What, a traitor, when I would use my every
                                    effort for the purpose of restoring our country to its former
                                    position among the nations of the earth? Why, our honorable
                                    representative under the last Administration to the Sandwich
                                    Islands, gives me to understand that our country is ridiculed
                                    there as nation. He says there 19 out of 20 are in favor of the
                                    South, [consent.] and yet when I would propose to restore this
                                    Union, under the Constitution, with all its dignity, equality
                                    and rights unimpaired, I am denounced as a traitor.
                              Gentlemen say they are ready to vote the last dollar and give the
                                    last man in the prosecution of this war. When I heard an
                                    honorable gentleman on this floor make a remark similar to that,
                                    the other day, there was brought to my mind a duel said to have
                                    been fought on the bolder of Texas between two men placed in a
                                    dark room each with pistols and with knives, and they locked up
                                    and left to hack each other until death ensued. Now that is just
                                    the result. I expect nothing else. What is the experience of the
                                    last two years? It has been asserted that after two years hard fighting throughout
                                    the entire country from the Atlantic to the Mississippi our army
                                    has succeeded in advancing four feet. Now with that fact--which
                                    may be exaggerated, though it smacks something of the
                                    truth--staring us in the very face, who will attempt to say
                                    where is the remedy for the evils existing in our country? If we
                                    prosecute this war, as it is being carried on now, it must
                                    result in the destruction of both sections.
                              In conclusion, I desire to say, that when any man charges me with
                                    being a traitor to my country, he may do it through mistake;
                                    but, sir, if he reiterates that charge, after he has heard me
                                    to-day, then sir, I shall regard him as a falsifier, and if he
                                    reiterates the charge I shall brand him as a liar. I, sir, know
                                    my own heart best, and know to what tune its impulses keep
                                    time:--it is to the music of the Union, one and inseparable, now
                                    and forever. Not a Union such as gentlemen of the opposition
                                    would have, with the rights of the States obliterated; not such
                                    a Union as their members of Congress have praised, blotting out
                                    State lines and rights; but a Union with all the dignity,
                                    equality and rights of the several States unimpaired. That is
                                    the kind of Union I favor.
                              Mr. MANSFIELD. I would ask the Senator by what means he will obtain
                                    it?
                               Mr. BROWN. I propose to obtain it by peaceable means--a cessation
                                    of hostilities--by compromise. Why, suppose you raise armies in
                                    the North sufficiently strong to over run the South, you
                                    don't restore the old Union, never. You can't
                                    enforce the Constitution; you will require a new Constitution--a
                                    Constitution sir, which requires force of arms.
                              Mr. CLAYPOOL. In the event the proposed Convention could not agree,
                                    what would then be the course of the Senator from Wells?
                              Mr. BROWN, of Wells. The course of the Senator from Wells, as he
                                    now feels would be to fight; but, sir, until that desperate
                                    alternative is presented to me, my voice shall be for a peaceful
                                    solution of the difficulties surrounding us.
                              Mr. REED. The gentleman states that he favors the Union--the old
                                    Union, nothing but the Union. Yesterday there was a resolution
                                    offered by the Senator from Ohio [Mr. Downey] condemning the
                                    idea that there was any party in this State in favor of a
                                    Northwestern Confederacy, or the Northwest leaving New England
                                    out in the cold; and I understood the Senator to vote against
                                    that proposition. Was that for the Union or against it?
                              Mr. BROWN. I do not know how the record stands, but I have no
                                    knowledge of voting against any proposition of that kind. I
                                    stand here pledged against any Northwestern Confederacy, or any
                                    Union of the Northwest with the Southern Confederacy, or any
                                    arrangement of the difficulties whereby New England will be left
                                    out in the cold. I have announced it, sir, and stand by it, that
                                    I am in favor of the old Union, and nothing but the Union as our
                                    fathers gave it to us.
                              Mr. BROWNE of Randolph. In the event the independence of the
                                    Southern States is to be recognized, and they have to be cut
                                    off, would you then favor a Union between the South and the
                                    Northwest, leaving New England out?
                              Mr. BROWN of Wells. I desire to say this, in answer to that
                                    question: I contemtemplate no such an event as that. But in
                                    conclusion, Mr. President. I desire to say that in introducing
                                    the propositions I have, I think I have expressed the sentiments
                                    of the people; and the reports I receive are that the soldiers
                                    are all in favor of peace--that they are all tired of this war,
                                    and desire peace. But suppose the course which has been pursued
                                    by myself and others here may be condemned by the soldiery, they
                                    form but a small minority of the people of the North; and I
                                    believe the people of the North are with us. So long, then, as I
                                    believe a majority of the people of the North demand the
                                    armistice I propose, so long I shall favor it while I am their
                                    representative in these legislative halls.
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph. If the people of the North are in favor of
                                    an armistice why did your own party ignore it in their report to
                                    the Senate?
                              Mr. BROWN of Wells. I do not undertake to answer for what my party
                                    has done upon this floor. It will speak for itself. Mr.
                                    President, I trust that what I have said is sufficient to
                                    satisfy any candid mind that what I have done has been done for
                                    the good of the whole people and for the good of the
                                    country.
                              
                                    CONTESTED ELECTION CASE.
                                    The special order for this hour being the resolutions in the
                                          case of the Senator from Elkhart and Lagrange, they were
                                          taken up. The first declares that Mr. Murray, the sitting
                                          member, was not entitled to his seat. The second declares
                                          that Mr. Baker is entitled to the seat occupied by Mr.
                                          Murray.
                                    Mr. JOHNSTON demanded a division of the question, that the
                                          vote might be taken on the resolutions separately.
                                    Mr. DOWNEY made an able legal argument in favor of Mr.
                                          Murray, He contended that allthough Mr. Murray preformed
                                          the duty and received the compensation of a regimental
                                          Quartermaster in the army, he had never been legally
                                          mustered into the service, and had not given a bond as the
                                          regulations required.
                                    Messrs MANSFIELD and CLAYPOOL controverted the positions of
                                          the Senator from Ohio and Switzerland. [Mr. Downey]
                                          contending that the commission was evidence sufficient to
                                          disqualify Mr. Murray from holding a seat as Senator.

                                    

                                    Mr. HORD said that the commission was only prima
                                                facie evidence against Mr. Murray, but he had a
                                          right to show that he was or was not legally an officer.
                                          He could not be an officer legally until he had filled all
                                          the requirements of the regulations of the army. The only
                                          evidence we had that Mr. Murray ever exercised the duties
                                          of the office of Quartermaster were his own statements,
                                          and his statements should be taken in full if at all.
                                    The first resolution was rejected by yeas 20, nays 22.
                                    On motion by Mr. JOHNSTON the second resolution, was laid on
                                          the table by yeas 24, nays 17; excused 1.
                              
                              
                                    BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                    Mr. Waterman's bill, [H. R. 129] amending the law
                                          governing the payment of salaries of State officers, was
                                          passed by yeas 42, nays 0.
                                    Mr. Miller's bill, [H. R. 109] extending time to
                                          borrows of the Sinking Fund, was passed by yeas 36, nays
                                          5.
                                    Mr.Mutz's bill, [H. R. 75] to prohibit the sale of
                                          coal and petrolaum oil without inspection, &c.,
                                          was passed by yeas 42, nays 1.
                                    Mr. Byerle's bill, [H.R. 145] for the relief of Geo.
                                          Arnold, was passed by yeas 35, nays 7.
                              
                              
                                    SPECIFIC APPROPRIATIONS.
                                    Mr. WILLIAMS from the Finance Committee,
                                          reported a list of accounts for legislative expenses, with
                                          a recommendation that they be allowed, and that, inasmuch
                                          as no specific appropriation bill can be passed, that the
                                          Auditor of State be authorized to issue his warrant in
                                          favor of the parties named.
                                    One or two amendments, making additional allowances, were
                                          agreed to, and the resolution, as amended, was
                                          adopted.
                              
                              
                                    HONOR TO OUR SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. CLAYPOOL offered a resolution, which was adopted, that
                                          when the "Roll of Honor of the Patriotic
                                          Dead", is completed by the State Librarian, it be
                                          published in book form, and that the profits of the sale
                                          thereof be devoted to the benefit of the orphans of the
                                          deceased soldiers.
                              
                              
                                    THANKS TO OFFICERS.
                                    A resolution was adopted, returning thanks to the Secretaries
                                          and their Assistants, and the Doorkeepers and their
                                          employees, for the faithful manner in which they have
                                          discharged their respective duties.
                              
                              
                                    THE STATE ARSENAL.
                                    Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, from a select committee, reported
                                          that such was the condition of the Legislature no action
                                          could be taken with reference to Legislating on the
                                          subject of the arsenal.
                                    The report was concurred in.
                                    The Senate then took a recess for dinner.
                              
                              
                                    AFTERNOON SESSION.
                                    Various reports were made from different committees,
                                          returning bills, &c., with recommendations that
                                          they be laid on the table; said committees not having time
                                          to consider the same.
                                    These reports were severally concurred in.
                                    
                                          VIOLATIONS OF THE BANKING LAW.
                                          Mr. MARCH offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                                asking the Attorney General to give his construction
                                                of the 55th section of the bank law, and if he finds
                                                any violations thereof that he be directed to bring
                                                suits in such cases.
                                    
                                    
                                          MILITARY AUDITING
                                                  COMMITTEE.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, called up his concurrent
                                                resolution creating an auditing committee of two on
                                                the part of the Senate and one on the part of the
                                                House to audit all military claims, including the
                                                appropriations for the Indiana Legion, and it was
                                                adopted.
                                          Subsequently, by a resolution of the Senate, Messrs.
                                                Dunning and New were appointed the committee on the
                                                part of the Senate.
                                    
                                    
                                          THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND THE
                                                ARMY.
                                          Mr. BRADLEY called up the reports of the majority and
                                                minority of the Committee on Federal
                                                  Relations in answer to the memorials
                                                from the army, and renewed the motion to adopt and
                                                print the majority report and that the minority
                                                report lay on the table and the same number of
                                                copies be printed of it.
                                          Mr. RAY advocated the printing of the two reports
                                                together, and made a very able and eloquent speech
                                                in defense of of the Democratic party and defining
                                                his views on the grave questions of the day. He had
                                                been willing to lay aside party and go in for the
                                                whole country. But the people would adhere to party
                                                notwithstanding, and such being the case, he could
                                                not consent to abandon the party with which he had
                                                heretofore acted. He regretted the agitation of that
                                                subject which had been one of the moving causes of
                                                our present troubles - slavery, and he condemned all
                                                attempts, no matter by whom made, to consolidate any
                                                portion of the people upon an anti-slavery issue,
                                                during the pendency of the present struggle to put
                                                down the rebellion. He, also, deprecated all attemps
                                                to make the army believe that any party at the North
                                                was opposed to the restoration of the Union. We
                                                should all endeavor to convince our soldiers, by
                                                acts and words, that we were a united people for the
                                                Union of the States, and for a vigorous prosecution
                                                of the war, until rebellion was crushed out forever.
                                                He believed that, notwithstanding the
                                                discouragements hanging over our armies in the
                                                field, the unholy and unwarranted rebellion would be
                                                crushed out, and the flag of our country recognized
                                                in every part of the Federal Union, as it bad been
                                                in years gone by.
                                          This Senate has set here day after day and matured as
                                                much legislation, and done as much work as any
                                                preceding Senate ever did; but the most of it comes
                                                to naught, and falls, in consequence of the
                                                disorganization in the other branch of the
                                                Legislature. This, sir, is deplorable. I say, sir,
                                                it is deplorable. If the Democratic party in the
                                                Senate had done some foolish, rash or disloyal thing
                                                it would have furnished some expost
                                                  facto excuse for this disorganization of the
                                                House.--But I am gratified at the political status
                                                of the Democratic members of the Senate today. I
                                                have expressed an opinion adversely to the military
                                                bill--upon which the members of the House left their
                                                seats and opposed to all schemes whereby the
                                                Democratic party was to share any portion of the
                                                military affairs of the State. I wish to say that
                                                measure never could have passed the House; and I am
                                                free to say it never could have received the
                                                sanction of five members on the floor of the Senate
                                                in my opinion; and yet on a mere pretext of this
                                                kind, a rebellion in our capitol has defeated the
                                                labors of the General Assembly for sixty-one days I
                                                want to blister and condemn, and here in my place to
                                                denounce this initial step in rebellion and anarchy
                                                at home. I denounced the first step in my own party
                                                which tended to rebellion and anarchy, and how much
                                                more ready should I be to denounce overt acts of
                                                rebellion and anarchy when they come from the other
                                                side?
                                           Mr. JOHNSTON. The question is as to printing the
                                                majority and minority report of the committee. He
                                                was willing to print both documents and let the
                                                people read and judge for themselves. He did not
                                                think stump speaking at this time would change the
                                                opinion of one man. The people would read and think
                                                and decide for themselves. Let them read. Let the
                                                army read. He had heard that newspapers were
                                                excluded from the army. He was sorry if it was so.
                                                He did not think soldiers should be used like mules,
                                                made to do the work for other men's
                                                thinking. Documents, however, did get to the army
                                                denouncing and slandering the Democratic party.
                                                Republican newspapers were filled with these
                                                slanders.--Would not and did not these charges give
                                                aid and comfort to the enemy? Would it not rejoice
                                                the heart of Jeff. Davis to be informed that Indiana
                                                was on the verge of revolution--that the dominant
                                                party in it was ready to take the State out of the
                                                Union--was ready to hitch it on to the Southern
                                                Confederacy? And yet these charges were made daily.
                                                He read from the Indianapolis Journal describing a meeting in Putnam
                                                county, held at Greencastle, in which that paper
                                                stated that cheers for Jeff. Davis, loud and long,
                                                were heard. He pronounced it false. He was present
                                                at the meeting and nothing of the kind occurred. He
                                                denounced such slanders, and that paper had been
                                                full of them since this Legislature had been in
                                                session.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, had been pleased with portions
                                                of the speech of the Senator from Shelby. [Mr. Ray]
                                                and had more hopes of the Union, since he heard it,
                                                and would have still more hopes, if he thought the
                                                gentleman had spoken as an exponent of his
                                                party.
                                          Mr. RAY. I spoke for myself alone.
                                          Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, contended that evidences did
                                                exist of the existence of secret political society
                                                called the" Knights of the Golden
                                                Circle." whose object was to discourage
                                                enlistments. He had in his possession a letter from
                                                a constituent of the Senator from Putnam, [Mr.
                                                Johnston] written to his own son, encouraging that
                                                son to desert, and acknowledging the existence of a
                                                secret society termed by him the "Knights
                                                of the Golden Circle." The grand Jury had
                                                presented members of the Order, who had declined to
                                                reveal its mysteries. As to the charge that
                                                democrats had favored a Northwestern Confederacy, he
                                                would say that he had heard members of that party
                                                declare in favor of such a scheme. He contended that
                                                those who advocated such schemes, and united with
                                                such societies, were of those who composed the
                                                fanatical element in the Democratic party. He did
                                                not deny the existence of a conservative element in
                                                that party, and his hope was, that the conservatives
                                                would put their feet upon the necks of the fanatics.
                                                The Senator from Wells [Mr. Brown] had said that the
                                                rebellion could never be put down by war; that he
                                                was willing to try an armistice and a convention for
                                                adjustment, which failing, he would favor a
                                                continuance of the war, if the country was thereby
                                                exterminated. Knowing that nothing could be
                                                accomplished, why not be willing now to continue the
                                                war until every rebel is swept from existence? He
                                                denied that the party with which he was acting, was
                                                governed solely by party feelings. They were for
                                                their country, without any conditions whatever, and
                                                if anything transpired in the management of the
                                                administration of the war that did not meet the
                                                appropation of every member of the party, it did not
                                                weaken their fealty to the Government. And he
                                                recommended that the Democrats do likewise, and all
                                                would go well.
                                          Mr. MARCH desired to reciprocate a portion of the
                                                sentiments of the Senator from Shelby. But he had
                                                said that this Legislature had done nothing to
                                                warrant any belief that it was a disloyal body. He
                                                would say, in ansewer, that the people would judge
                                                whether this was true or not. He who faltered in the
                                                time of his coun-try's trial, might attempt to defend
                                                himself, but the people were always right, and they
                                                would decide as to who had stood up for their
                                                country and who had not. The people were alarmed at
                                                the existence of a conditional loyalty throughout
                                                Indiana, and in the legislature, that would only
                                                give support to the country, provided the President
                                                would do this or that. And while such alarm existed, it was
                                                no wonder that they and the soldiers had expressed
                                                their fears with some feeling. He had no defense to
                                                make of his course, or of that of his party. Those
                                                who thought that a defence was necessary, could make
                                                it, and when made, the people would judge as to
                                                whether they were guilty or not.
                                          The majority report was then adopted, and 5,000 copies
                                                ordered to be printed, of both the majority and
                                                minority reports.
                                          Mr. Miller's bill [H. R. 128] authorizing
                                                Recorders to demand their fees in advance, was read
                                                the third time passed by yeas 33, nays 2.
                                          A concurrent resolution (printed on page 213) directing
                                                the Attorney General to sue in the name of the State
                                                for any monies drawn from the Treasury without
                                                warrant of law, was laid on the table.
                                          Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to take a recess until 8
                                                o'clock this evening. He had heard that the
                                                "Madison branch" of the
                                                Legislature would arrive at 8 o'clock, and
                                                he wished the Senate to be on hand to receive any
                                                bills that the House might send here.
                                          The motion was agreed to.
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NIGHT SESSION.
                                    Several resolutions were adopted; when, a call of the Senate
                                          being ordered and taken, but 24 members answered to their
                                          names.
                              
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    SATURDAY. March 7, 1863.
                              
                              On motion by Mr. McGAUCHEY it was
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That the Doorkeeper
                                                  be directed to contract with W.H. DRAPIER, for six
                                                  hundred copies of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                                  REPORTS--being the usual number furnished for the
                                                  use of this House every session since1857--the
                                                  same to be sent by express,an equal number of
                                                  copies to each member as soon as possible after
                                                  the adjournment of the session-- provided said Reports shall not cost more
                                                  than one dollar per copy; that one copy for each
                                                  member be bound; and that said reports shall not
                                                  be paid for till printed.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              Mr. BIRD offered a resolution electing the following persons as
                                    members of the Board of Trustees of the Benevolent institutions:
                                    Charles E. Sturgiss, of Allen county, for Insane Asylum; James
                                    Elder, of Wayne county, for Deaf and Dumb Asylum, and Robert
                                    Curran, of Clarke, for Blind Asylum. This vote to be regarded as
                                    a viva-voce vote.
                              The resolution was informally passed over.
                              
                                    SICK AND WOUNDED SOLDIERS.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB from select committee to whom was referred joint
                                          resolution thanking Governor Morton for care and attention
                                          to sick and wounded soldiers, reported the committee
                                          unable to act upon, it in consequence of the absence of
                                          Republican members.
                              
                              
                                    REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                    The several committees reported back the resolutions and
                                          bills referred to them, which were informally tabled.
                              
                              
                                    EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB offered the following resolution, which was
                                          informally passed over.
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That House bill No.
                                                  221 be recommitted to the Committee on
                                                  Military Affairs, with instructions to
                                                  report a substitute therefor, amending the law now
                                                  in force so as to make all officers of the Indiana
                                                  Legion to be elected by the companies and
                                                  regiments and commissioned by the Governor, and
                                                  also to amend said laws so as to appropriate
                                                  $25,000 per annum for military purposes, instead
                                                  of $70,000 as now prescribed.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                              
                              
                                    NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                    Mr. NIBLACK, from the Committee on Ways and
                                                Means, reported the specific appropriation
                                          bill, [257.]
                                    Also the bill making general appropriations for the years
                                          1863 and 1864. [258.]
                                    Mr. NIBLACK moved to suspend the rules so that the general
                                          appropriation bills might be read the second time.
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded and being ordered and taken
                                          resulted, yeas 53, nays 0.
                                     No quorum voting a call of the House was ordered showing the
                                          same result, when the House adjourned to 9 a.m. on
                                          Monday.
                              
                        
                        
                              IN SENATE.
                              
                                    MONDAY, March 9, 1863.
                              
                              On motion by Mr. GIFFORD, it was--
                              
                                    
                                          
                                                Resolved, That the Secretary of
                                                  State be authorised to procure and send; to each
                                                  member of the Senate, and to the officers and
                                                  Reporters thereof, two copies of the BREVIER
                                                  LEGISLATIVE REPORTS, also two copies each of the
                                                  Senate and House Documentary Journals, and two
                                                  copies of the acts of the present session, all to
                                                  be bound in full sheep.
                                          
                                    
                              
                              Mr. JOHNSTON offered a concurrent resolution, which was adopted,
                                    authorizing the Governor, Auditor and Treasurer of State to
                                    appoint a Commissioner to investigate the fraudulent bonds
                                    outstanding against the State.
                              Mr. FERGUSON desired to correct a misapprehension that might exist
                                    with reference to the position of the Democracy of Scott county
                                    upon the Union question. The Senator from Delaware (Mr. March)
                                    had on Saturday alluded to Little Scott county in a way, as he
                                    (Mr. F.) thought, would cast doubt upon the loyalty of her
                                    Democracy. He defended Scott county from any such charge, and
                                    caused to be read resolutions of her Democracy.

                              

                              Mr. MARCH said he was the last man to do injustice to the people of
                                    Scott county, believing in the golden rule, "Judge not
                                    lest ye be judged." The Senator was mistaken. No
                                    allusion had been made by him that would cast such doubts as
                                    those hinted at. In his remarks he was alluding, in general
                                    terms, to the proceedings of the meetings of Democrats
                                    throughout the State, and simply referred to the resolutions of
                                    a township meeting in Scott county and others by way of making a
                                    comparison. The resolutions of a Scott county meeting that had
                                    just been read were not as objectionable as those referred to by
                                    him. There was much in them he could heartily endorse, and were
                                    much better than those generally adopted at Democratic meetings.
                                    But there were some things in the resolutions that he as
                                    heartily condemned. One was that this war had been commenced by
                                    preachers and Northern fanatics. This was wholly untrue. The war
                                    had been begun only by one section, and that section was alone
                                    responsible for it. The people of the North were not
                                    responsible, but were fighting in self-defence. He would never
                                    consent to admit that the exercise of freedom of speech at the
                                    North had brought the rebellion upon us. Another thing he
                                    objected to was a repetition of the usual clap-trap of such
                                    meetings, that nothing should be done toward fighting rebels
                                    unless attempts were first made for compromise through
                                    conventions and by means of an armistice. Such doctrines were
                                    calculated to encourage rebels in arms, and divide the friends
                                    of the Union, and should be discountenanced by all good
                                    patriots.
                              Mr. COBB said the Senator from Delaware referred to a resolution
                                    passed by a township meeting in Scott county in which it is
                                    charged that the ministers North and South were instrumental in
                                    bringing the present troubles on the country. He endorsed the
                                    sentiment, and history would pronounce it true. The ministry
                                    were intensely partisan and proscriptive. They were
                                    Abolitionized North, and preached political Abolitionism from
                                    their pulpits and denounced all who differed with them as
                                    disloyal. The Senator [Mr. March] could not reply to the Senator
                                    from Scott [Mr. Ferguson without spreading his wings and
                                    covering the entire ground of politics. Mr. C. replied to the
                                    general remarks of Mr. March, and reviewed the acts of both
                                    parties in the present Legislature, branding the minority with
                                    revolutionary acts without the slightest shadow of reason for
                                    any such acts.
                              Mr. FERGUSON offered a resolution, which was adopted, that a
                                    committee of two on the part of the Senate be appointed to act
                                    with a similar committee on the part of the House to wait upon
                                    the Governor and ascertain if he has any further communication
                                    to make to the Legislature.
                              Messrs. Ferguson & New were appointed.
                              Mr. FERGUSON, from the committee appointed to wait on the Governor,
                                    reported that they had performed that duty, and that the
                                    Governor had informed the committee that he had no further
                                    communications to make to this General Assembly.
                              Mr. BROWNE, of Randolph, offered a resolution that the Senate,
                                    having finished its business, adjourn at 12 o'clock
                                    this day, and that the House be informed of the passage of this
                                    resolution.
                              The resolution was adopted, but before the result was
                                    announced,
                              The PRESIDENT arose and said:
                              Gentlemen of the Senate:I have not reflected one
                                    moment upon what it would be proper for me to say to you upon
                                    the adjournment of this session of the Senate. I have no set
                                    speech, and what I say to you will be dictated by my feelings
                                    and my judgment. When the Senate of Indiana assembled on the 8th
                                    of January of the present year, our country was and still
                                    continues to be involved in a great struggle for the
                                    preservation of the integrity of this government. There was more
                                    party feeling, I believe, existing at the time the Senate
                                    assembled than there is existing today, and I hope the
                                    legislation of the Indiana Senate has not been without vast
                                    benificial results upon the best interests of the country. And I
                                    conjure you gentlemen, as leaders and as citizens of the great
                                    State of Indiana--as representatives which the people of Indiana
                                    have reposed confidence in and upon whom they devolved a
                                    responsibility that has not been equaled by any session of the
                                    Senate that ever has assembled in the State of Indiana--I say, I
                                    trust and conjure you, in view of this responsibility, that you
                                    shall, as citizens and as leaders, use all the influence you may
                                    possess amongst your various constituency for the purpose of
                                    bringing about a restoration of this glorious Union--for the
                                    purpose of concluding this war, which is devastating the land
                                    and is taking off hundreds of thousands of the productive men of
                                    the country. And above all, gentlemen. I trust, and it shall be
                                    my course when I return to the bosom of my constituency--that
                                    you will use all the influence you can possess for the purpose
                                    of allaying the existing excitement--for the purpose of
                                    preventing a collision in the State of Indiana; for if a
                                    collision should take place in Indiana it will spread to all the
                                    western States, and it will be a war which would carry famine
                                    and devastation to the home of every citizen of Indiana. I
                                    trust, then, as citizens, as legislators, an patriots, that each
                                    one of you will, use your utmost exertions for the purpose of
                                    keeping down angry extremes, and for the purpose of preventing
                                    civil war from being inaugurated in the State of Indiana.
                              At the commencement of this session, gentlemen, I was elected your
                                    presiding  officer. I have
                                    no language to express the gratitude that I feel to the members
                                    of this Senate for the compliment which they have bestowed upon
                                    me, and for the expression which they have given and honestly
                                    given of the satisfactory manner in which I have endeavored to
                                    discharge the duties of presiding officer. I can appeal to my
                                    God with all confidence and honestly, and can say, that while I
                                    have had the honor and it is an honor of presiding over the
                                    deliberations of the Indiana Senate during its present session.
                                    I have attempted to ignore and from day to day I have renewed
                                    the attempted to ignore anything like party feeling or partizan
                                    partiality. My sole object has been that every member of this
                                    Senate should have an opportunity of freely expressing his views
                                    upon all questions which have agitated this body from the
                                    opening of the session till its adjournment with this hour. I
                                    tender to you again, in sincerity, my heartfelt thanks for the
                                    honor you have conferred upon me. I shall look upon it as one of
                                    the proudest moments of my life when I was elected the presiding
                                    officer of this body.
                              In conclusion, gentlemen, I trust that when you return to your
                                    various constituents your conduct may meet their approbation,
                                    and that they will be able and will pronounce upon you
                                    "well done thou good and faithful servant; you have
                                    represented us truly and faithfully in the Indiana Senate-- you
                                    have discharged the duties which were entrusted to
                                    you." And personally, gentlemen, I wish you peace, and
                                    prosperity, and happiness, so long as you may each live. I now
                                    pronounce the Indiana Senate adjourned, sine
                                          die.
                              But permit me to say--(I had not studied for one moment what I
                                    ought to say to you--) that there is one subject I should have
                                    alluded to; but it has been satisfactorily done by resolution of
                                    the Senate. Since we have assembled here one of our members--I
                                    allude to the Hon. Thomas Shoulders-- has departed this life. He
                                    was an honest man, and a prudent and cautious legislator. Let us
                                    cherish his memory, and keep the admonition constantly before
                                    our eyes, that "in the midst of life we are in
                                    death." I pronounce the Senate of Indiana now adjourned
                                          sine die.
                        
                        
                              HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                              
                                    Monday, March 9, 1863.
                              
                              The SPEAKER announced a Committee--Messrs. Puett and Griffith to
                                    wait upon the Governor and inquire if he had any further
                                    communications to make.
                              The committee, returning, stated that His Excellency had none. He
                                    would have went in an answer to the resolution printed on page
                                    159 of those Reports but for some days past there being no
                                    quorum, he had for that reason not done it.
                              The Senate resolutions in reference to the appointment of an
                                    auditing military board of two Senators and three
                                    Representatives, were concurred in.
                              Mr. WOOLLEN, from the select committee to investigate the charge
                                    made by Mr. Branham, of Jefferson, that there were members on
                                    this floor in consultation with emissaries of the Southern
                                    Confederacy; reported that Mr. Branham had been subpoened but
                                    had declined to appear. The committee therefore conclude that
                                    Mr. Branham had no foundation for his charge, and made it simply
                                    for political effect.
                              Mr. CASON objected to the reception of the report, because, as a
                                    member of the committee, he had never been notified to meet with
                                    it, and also because Mr. Branham had not been notified to meet
                                    the committee till last Friday night.
                              Mr. WOOLLEN stated that Mr. Branham said he could give no
                                    information himself on the subject.
                              Mr. CASON asked: Did he not offer to produce witnesses before the
                                    committee to testify as to the communication of members with
                                    representatives from the South?
                              Mr. WOOLLEN did not remember that Mr. Branham had made such an
                                    offer. The committee had not been called together before the
                                    bolt of the minority, because of his own absence.
                              Mr. HANNA, offered a resolution which was adopted, that the
                                    communication of the Governor relative to the distribution of
                                    arms be placed in the hands of the Librarian for future
                                    inspection and legislation.
                              Mr. BROWN offered a resolution, which was adopted, appointing a
                                    committee of three to act with a committee on the part of the
                                    Senate to investigate the affairs of the Quartermaster
                                    General's Department.
                              
                                    THANKS TO THE SPEAKER.
                                    Mr. GRIFFITH offered a resolution, which was adopted. [Mr.
                                          Donaldson in the chair,] Tendering the thanks of the House
                                          to Hon. S. H. Buskirk, for his ability and impartiality in
                                          presiding over the deliberations of the House.
                                    On motion of Mr. BROWN Mr. Buskirk was made a member of the
                                                Military Auditing Committee.
                                          Messrs. Niblack and Kilgore were added by the Speaker.
                                    The journal was expurgated, by resolution, of everything
                                          relating to the arraignment of the Doorkeeper, Barnabas
                                          Burns.
                                    The Senate resolution in reference to the fraudulent live per
                                          cent, stocks was concurred in.
                              
                              
                                    SPECIFIC APPROPRIATIONS.
                                    The Committee on Ways and Means submitted
                                          a report on finance, which was placed on the journals.
                                    Mr. FERRIS submitted a report from a select committee on
                                          hospitals in the city, complimenting the surgeons in
                                          charge for their care of the sick.

                                    

                                    Mr. PACKARD (for Mr. DONALDSON who temporarily occupied the
                                          chair) offered the following, which was adopted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the Secretary
                                                  of State procure and send to each member of the
                                                  House and to the officers thereof, two copies each
                                                  of the House and Senate Documentary Journals, two
                                                  copies of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS and two
                                                  copies of the acts of the present session; all to
                                                  be bound in full sheep.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. HARNEY offered a resolution to allow J. J. Bingham $5.000
                                          as part pay for printing for this assembly, to be paid
                                          from the Legislative Fund but withdrew it because of a
                                          demand for the yeas and nays.
                                    The Senate resolution in reference to an adjournment sine die
                                          was taken up and concurred in.
                                    Reports from the Committees on Quartermaster's
                                          Department, and on Arsenals, were made and spread on the
                                          journals.
                                    Mr. LEE entered his protest against the appointment of a
                                          Military Auditing Board because two of its members were
                                          Republicans, and also because it had no control over the
                                          Governor's contingent fund.
                                    Mr. BROWN offered the following:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  WHEREAS, On the 25th day of
                                                  January, 1863, several members of this body
                                                  belonging to the Abolition party did, without just
                                                  cause and without permission, absent themselves
                                                  from this body, and have remained away ever since;
                                                  and,
                                                  WHEREAS, In consequence of
                                                  said members being away as aforesaid, this General
                                                  Assembly has been unable to pass any appropriation
                                                  bill whatever, or to perform and complete the
                                                  necessary legislation required of it, there being
                                                  a sufficient number of the members aforesaid
                                                  absent to leave no quorum of this body to transact
                                                  business; therefore, be it
                                                  Resolved, That said members
                                                  are not entitled to, and should not receive, any
                                                  compensation as members of this body for the time
                                                  they have been absent, and that the Speaker of
                                                  this House is hereby directed not to issue any
                                                  warrant or certificate to any member who has been
                                                  absent as aforesaid, which warrant or certificate
                                                  would entitle said member to receive pay as a
                                                  member of this body for the time he was absent, as
                                                  aforesaid.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. HOLCOMB offered the following amendment, which Mr. Brown
                                          accepted:
                                    
                                          
                                                
                                                  Resolved, That the Speaker of
                                                  the House be directed to certify to the Auditor of
                                                  State the amount of pay that has been forfeited by
                                                  members absenting themselves from the House
                                                  without leave during the present session, and not
                                                  received by the members, and that the said
                                                  Auditing Committee be
                                                  authorized and directed to draw a warrant for the
                                                  full amount so forfeited in favor of the Military
                                                  Contingent Fund, to be used for the benefit of the
                                                  sick and wounded soldiers of our State.
                                                
                                          
                                    
                                    Mr. BROWN demanded the previous question.
                                    The yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and taken
                                          resulted yeas 37, nays 7.
                                    There being no quorum present a call of the House was ordered
                                          and but 51 members answered to their names.
                                    The House being notified that the Senate had adjourned sine die--
                                    The SPEAKER arose and said:
                                    Gentlemen of the House of Representives:The
                                          resolution that was this morning adopted which contains a
                                          reassurance of your confidence in me as your presiding
                                          officer, is certainly very gratifying to my feelings and
                                          will be gratefully remembered by me. I can say in all
                                          truth and sincerity, that I have honestly labored to
                                          discharge the duties of presiding officer faithfully and
                                          impartially. That I have committed many errors, no one
                                          will pretend to doubt. I desire to say to members of the
                                          House that I feel grateful to you all, for I have received
                                          the most generous and cordial support from each member of
                                          this House, and the Chair has at all times been treated
                                          with the utmost respect and courtesy by members of this
                                          House. We assembled here under peculiar circumstances--in
                                          stormy times--and the debates have assumed a bitter and
                                          acrimonious character at times. We assembled as strangers
                                          but I trust, however much we may differ upon political
                                          questions, that we will at least separate as personal
                                          friends.
                                    Permit me in conclusion, gentlemen, to say it is a matter of
                                          regret to the people of the State of Indiana that the
                                          business that was requisite to be passed by this
                                          Legislature has not been done. That we return home without
                                          having accomplished our mission, I say, is a matter of
                                          serious regret, I trust, to every member of this House and
                                          to the country at large. Permit me to say that when we go
                                          home let us do justice to our political opponents; let us
                                          hold our political opponents responsible for all that they
                                          are justly and fairly entitled to be held responsible for
                                          and no more; and I ask of them to do the same by the
                                          majority on this floor; for upon our course when we go to
                                          our respective counties will depend, to a great extent,
                                          the good will and harmony and peace of the people of our
                                          respective counties. I insist, therefore, that when we
                                          address the people at home, either in public or private we
                                          will deal fairly and justly with each other--that we of
                                          the majority will not attribute to the minority that they
                                          are not guilty of, and that they will look to the record
                                          which has been made in the Senate and House to see what
                                          the majority have endorsed and not attempt to hold them
                                          responsible for what they have not endorsed. I make these
                                          suggestions believing that upon our action before the
                                          people the peace and harmony and good will existing
                                          between neighbors may be preserved.
                                    Gentlemen, returning to you my most sincere thanks, for the
                                          many favors I have received at your hands, and asking from
                                          you your generous indulgence for the follies and errors I
                                          have committed as presiding officer of this House, I will
                                          close my remarks.
                                     Mr. DONALDSON (interrupting.) I move that the speech of the
                                          Speaker be written out and placed upon the journals. All
                                          in favor of the motion say "aye."
                                    The motion was agreed to nem. con.
                                    The SPEAKER. I declare this House adjourned without day.
                              
                        
                  
            

            

            
                  
                        INDEX.
                        ABBETT, 0. H. P., a Representative from Bartholomew. His motions--63,
                              64, 103, 109, 115, 121, 160. ABDIL, IRAD, a Representative from
                              Vermillion. His motion--12. ABSENTEES--From the House--185, 189, 191,
                              225. ANDERSON,jr., ANDREW, a Representative from St. Joseph. His
                              motions--28, 32, 42, 45, 46, 50, 54, 68, 76, 77, 82, 85, 93, 94, 95,
                              96, 109, 114, 119, 124, 125, 127, 134, 146, 161, 162, 164, 165, 170,
                              171, 172, 175. ATKISON, GEO. Y., a Representative from Hancock. His
                              motions--12, 44, 46, 49, 53, 54, 65, 69, 114, 123, 188. BAKER, J. H.
                              Esqr., contesting the seat of Senator from Elkhart and Lagrange. His
                              remarks thereon--56. BAKER, TIMOTHY, a Representative from Noble. His
                              motions--49, 68, 93, 149. BEARSS, DANIEL R., a Senator from Miami and
                              Fulton. His motions--79, 97, 108, 122, 142, 158, 173, 176, 189, 197.
                              BEESON, OTHNIEL, a Senator from Wayne. His motions--37, 71, 79, 83,
                              113, 140, 147, 219, 222. BERRY, E. H. M., a Senator from Rush. His
                              motions--8, 69, 80, 98.BEYERLE, HENRY J., a Representative from
                              Kosciusko. His motions--11, 53, 57, 93, 121, 152. BIRD, OCHMIG, a
                              Representative from Allen. His motions--11, 34, 46, 98, 213, 234.
                              BLAIR, SOLOMON, a Senator from Hendricks and Boone. His motions--36,
                              40, 48, 113, 114, 118, 143, 147, 151, 158, 179, 180, 187, 188, 191,
                              211, 212, 213, 223. BRADLEY, AUGUSTUS, a Senator from Floyd. His
                              motions-- 44, 67, 92, 146, 153, 167, 174, 189, 199, 201, 219, 222,
                              232. BRANHAM, DAVID C., a Representative from Jefferson. His
                              motions--12, 28, 31, 32, 33, 34, 75, 93, 110, 112, 120, 121, 123, 125,
                              135, 156, 165, 172, 175. BREGAN, ALFRED, a Representative from
                              Dearborn. His motions--43, 94. BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS2, 54, 55,
                              60, 85, 96, 97, 98, 119, 180, 206, 234, 237. BROWN, JASON B., a
                              Representative from Jackson. His motions--12, 28, 32, 33, 34, 43, 46,
                              49, 53, 54, 61, 62, 64, 65, 69, 70, 74, 77, 82, 83, 85, 87, 93, 95,
                              96, 103, 104, 105, 109, 114, 115, 123, 124, 125, 128, 156, 157, 160,
                              171, 175, 176, 181, 188, 191, 192, 194, 200, 213, 214, 215, 216, 217,
                              218, 236, 237. BROWN, GEORGE S., a Senator from Wells, Adams and Jay.
                              His motions--31, 43, 48, 59, 67, 71, 81, 83, 86, 96, 97, 100, 130,
                              136, 138, 150, 151, 158, 166, 169,174, 175, 176, 179, 185, 189, 201,
                              203, 224, 225, 229, 230, 231. BROWNE, THOMAS M., a Senator from
                              Randolph. His motions--8, 10, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 31, 34, 36, 37, 44,
                              47, 48, 51, 53, 55, 59, 57, 71, 72, 73, 78, 79, 80, 86, 91, 98, 99,
                              105, 106, 108,114, 116, 122, 130, 131, 140, 144, 145, 146, 150, 151,
                              153, 154, 161, 168, 169, 173, 179, 185, 186, 197, 201, 209, 219, 221,
                              223, 229, 231, 232, 283, 235. BLOCHER, DANIEL, a Representative from
                              Scott. His motions--40, 87, 155, 166. BUDD, CASPER, a Representative
                              from Parke. His motions--61, 88. 93, 111. BURTON, STEPHEN G., a
                              Representative from Sullivan. His motions--12, 45, 53, 54, 57, 68, 74,
                              75, 94, 104, 110, 134, 135, 147, 181, 194, 195, 196. BUSKIRK, SAMUEL
                              H., a Representative from Monroe. Elected Speaker of the House--11.
                              His motions--29, 30, 32, 33, 35, 64, 65, 70, 103, 112, 120, 121, 124,
                              1*5, 156, 163, 165, 167, 171, 172, 182, 185, 193, 194, 199, 237.
                              CAMPBELL, HENRY, a Senator from Fountain. His motion-- 65. CASON, T.
                              J., a Representative from Boone and Hendricks--His motions--28, 53,
                              54, 69, 70, 71, 74, 75, 82, 99, 103, 114, 119, 123, 125, 126, 128,
                              133, 134, 146, 163, 175, 236. CASS, LEVI A., a Representative from
                              Porter. His motions--43, 57, 93, 94, 200. CLAYPOOL, BENJAMIN F., a
                              Senator from Fayette and Union. His motions--8, 9, 39, 41, 43, 48, 58,
                              59, 61, 65, 67, 78, 79, 80, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 92, 96, 100, 101, 102,
                              106, 107, 108, 113, 114, 116, 118, 130, 133, 137, 141, 142, 147, 148,
                              161, 167, 168, 169, 173, 174, 176, 179, 180, 188, 197, 198, 199, 202,
                              203, 204, 206, 209, 220, 223, 224, 225, 229, 230, 231, 232, 234. COBB,
                              THOMAS R., a Senator from Lawrence and Martin. His motions--8, 9, 10,
                              13, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 37, 38, 40, 41, 47, 48, 59, 60, 67, 72,
                              90, 98, 100, 101, 107, 108, 116, 128, 129, 131, 132, 133, 138, 140,
                              141, 142, 144, 145, 148, 149, 154, 161, 166, 167, 168, 169, 173, 174,
                              175, 178, 180, 185, 186, 188, 189, 190, 191, 197, 199, 201, 202, 203,
                              204, 207, 209, 211, 212, 221, 222, 223, 224, 235. COLLINS, P. N., a
                              Representative from Adams. His motion--43. COOK, STEPHEN V., a
                              Representative from Brown. His motions 50, 99, 155, 175. CORBIN,
                              HORACE, a Senator from St. Joseph and Marshall. His motions--84, 86,
                              97, 98, 101, 102, 108, 117, 126, 128, 138, 147, 149, 153, 154, 157,
                              161, 180, 191, 205, 210. CULVER, MOSES C., a Senator from Tippecanoe.
                              His motions--92, 98, 153, 179. DAVIS, AMOS, a Representative from
                              Lagrange. His motions 93, 135. 
                              DAVIS, OLIVER P., a Senator from Vermillion and Parke. His
                              motions--118, 206. DAVIS, JOHN, a Senator from Cass, Howard and
                              Pulaski. His motions--146, 153, 197. DIAGRAM, of the Senate
                              Chamber--3. DIAGRAM, of the Hall of the House--5. DICKINSON, TIMOTHY
                              R., a Senator from DeKalb, Noble and Steuben. His motions--36, 37, 47,
                              61, 79, 92, 180,199. DONALDSON, R. F., a Representative from Miami.
                              His motions--34, 50, 61, 81, 98, 115, 119, 135, 149, 188, 237.
                              DOUGLASS, ALEX. J., a Senator from Huntington and Whitley. His
                              motions--60, 65, 80, 96, 127, 129, 131, 138, 140, 146, 151, 153, 206,
                              211, 228, 229. DOWNEY, ALEX. C., a Senator from Ohio and Switzerland.
                              His motions-- 60, 66, 71, 79, 80, 86, 89, 97, 98, 105, 108, 110, 111,
                              113, 114, 150, 166, 174, 179, 180, 185, 189, 190, 198, 199, 201, 205,
                              212, 213, 219, 220, 223, 231. DUNNING, PARIS C., a Senator from Monroe
                              and Brown. Elected President of the Senate--8. His motions--18, 19,
                              21, 36, 37, 38, 59, 66, 67, 80, 81, 90, 98, 116, 117, 130, 139, 140,
                              146, 148, 149, 151, 173, 179, 186, 198, 199, 201, 202, 221, 225, 235,
                              236. FERGUSON, CHAS. P., a Senator from Clark and Scott. His
                              motions--59, 60, 80, 84, 102, 107, 122, 158, 161, 166, 179, 180, 197,
                              199, 219, 234, 235. FERRIS, EDWIN P, a Representative from Ripley. His
                              motions--11, 28, 30, 49, 82, 111, 114, 135, 147, 152, 236. FLEMING,
                              ALLEN T., a Senator from Dubois, Gibson and Pike. His motion--
                              191.FORESTER. JAMES, a Representative from Laporte. His motions--31,
                              46, 93, 115, 141. FULLER, BENJ. S., a Senator from Warrick, Spencer
                              and Perry. His motions--60, 146.GAFF, J. W., a Senator from Dearborn.
                              His motions 79, 80, 101, 113, 206. GARVIN, THOS. E., a Representative
                              from Vanderburg. His motions--35, 58, 87, 121, 122, 149, 185. GIFFORD,
                              THOS., a Senator from Franklin. His motions--60, 80, 234. GIVEN, N.
                              S., a Representative from Daviess. His motions--28, 43, 46, 61, 85,
                              94, 112, 135, 149, 160, 181, 206, 213. GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE 21,
                              22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27. GRAVES, WILLIAM C., a Senator from Kosciusko
                              and Wabash. His motions--47, 122, 127, 143, 148, 151, 153, 154, 189,
                              202. GREGG, Jas. S., a Representative from Hendricks. His motion--54.
                              GREGORY, BENJ. F., a Representative from Warren. His motions--33, 43,
                              46, 48, 54, 61, 62, 77, 82, 93, 94, 95, 99, 112, 115, 118, 123, 135,
                              147, 155, 157, 163. GRIFFITH, FRANCIS P., a Representative from
                              Lagrange. His motions--11, 12, 29, 44, 56, 64, 82, 92, 93, 95, 96,
                              104, 110, 120, 128, 134, 141, 152, 157, 160, 166, 175, 176, 181, 182,
                              183, 184, 188, 191, 236. GRUBB, G. B., a Senator from Hamilton and
                              Tipton. His motion--100, 101. HALL,WM. S., a Representative from Rush.
                              His motions--ll, 43, 57, 111, 112, 149, 155, 163. HANNA, BAYLESS W., a
                              Representative from Vigo. His motions--11, 12, 30, 46, 5o, 54, 65, 82,
                              95, 99, 103, 119, 120, 126, 127, 135, 154, 155, 163, 165, 172, 182,
                              183, 184, 185, 192, 193, 199, 200,236. HARDIN, JAMES, a Representative
                              from Perry. His motions--85, 147, 152.HARNEY, JAMES F., a
                              Representative trom Montgomery. His motions--12, 28, 32, 34, 54, 61,
                              81, 82, 85, 95, 98, 99, 110, 111, 115, 135, 159, 160, 163, 167, 181,
                              184, 185, 188, 237. HARTLEY, WM. L., a Senator from Ripley. His
                              motions--47, 122, 179. HERSCHEY, JOSEPH M., a Representative from
                              Tippecanoe. His motions--85,93,163. HETFIELD, SAMUEL, a Representative
                              from Fountain. His motion--135. HIGGINS, W. W., a Representative from
                              Laporte. His motions--54, 61, 68, 82, 85, 99, 119, 128, 133, 175.
                              HOAGLAND, PLINY, a Senator from Allen. His motions--71, 121, 151.
                              HOLCOMB, SILAS M., a Representative from Gibson. His motions--11, 12,
                              33, 43, 44, 46, 47, 81, 83, 94, 95, 99, 105, 109, 134, 135, 157, 165,
                              171, 188, 200, 205, 206, 225, 234, 237. HON, GEORGE H., a
                              Representative from Orange. His motion--50. HORD, FRANCIS T., a
                              Senator from Bartholomew. His motions-13, 60, 61, 80, 83, 89, 92, 100,
                              105, 127, 146, 147, 150, 168, 174, 178, 180, 188, 223, 226, 227, 228,
                              232. HOSTETTER, SHERMAN, a Representative from Boone. His
                              motions--43,54,57, 68,93, 135. HOWARD, JONAS G., a Representative from
                              Clarke. His motions--70, 120, 135, 147, 157, 160. HOWK, GEORGE V., a
                              Representative from Floyd. His motions--109, 112, 122, 135, 152,
                              155,196. HUMPHREYS, JOHN M., a Representative from Greene. his
                              motions--33, 49, 54, 87, 103, 111, 134, 135, 141, 152, 161, 166.
                              HUTCHINGS, JOHN W., a Representative from Jennings. His motions--54,
                              57, 111. JAMES, HENLEY, a Representative from Grant. His motions 3,
                              93. JOHNSON, JARVIS J., a Representative from Morgan. His motions--43,
                              68, 88, 93, 103, 115, 129, 135, 159, 160. JOHNSTON, ARCHIBALD, a
                              Senator from Putnam and Clay. His motions--8, 13, 17, 36, 37, 39, 65,
                              66, 80, 83, 91, 107, 110, 128, 142, 144, 150, 153, 173, 174, 176, 179,
                              190, 191, 201, 222, 231, 232, 233, 234. JONES, OLIVER T., a
                              Representative from Wayne. His motions--11, 57, 68, 82, 85, 93, 95,
                              98, 141, 152, 156. KEMP, BEN. R, a Representative from Dubois. His
                              motions--57, 135, 163. KEMP, JOHN W., a Representative from Vigo. His
                              motion--95. KENDRICK, W. H., a Representative from Marion. His
                              motions--31, 32, 45, 53, 63, 64, 81, 85, 93, 133, 155. KILGOKE,
                              ALFRED, a Representative from Delaware. His motions-- 58, 8 , 93, 104,
                              152, 160, 167, 169, 170, 171, 172, 192, 193, 195, 196, 200. LAKE,
                              RICHARD, a Representative from Madison. His motions--109, 127. LAMB,
                              ROBERT N., a Representative from Switzerland and Ohio. His
                              motions--34, 50, 81, 85, 87, 93, 95, 96, 110, 112, 119, 121, 127, 128,
                              129, 152, 159, 175. LANDERS, FRANKLIN, a Senator from Morgan and
                              Johnson. His motions--15, 16, 20, 21, 34, 39, 44, 48, 55, 66, 74, 78,
                              79, 80, 81, 84, 85, 88, 98, 105, 108, 116, 118, 126, 146, 147, 153,
                              157, 172, 173, 174, 178, 179, 187, 191, 197, 199, 201, 207, 208, 209,
                              212, 219, 220, 221, 222, 223. LASSALLE, CHARLES B., a Representative
                              from Cass. His motions--30, 54, 58, 68, 87, 94, 95, 109, 11*, 111,
                              120, 135, 152, 155, 156, 157, 176, 183, 188, 191, 192. LEE, JEMISON, a
                              Representative from Washington. His motions--77, 213, 237. LEEDS, J.
                              M., a Representative from Howard. His motions--58, 82. 93, 118, 125,
                              135. LEMMON, JAMES W., a Representative from Spencer. His motions--46.
                              119. LEMMON, JOHN, a Representative from Harrison. His motions--58,
                              128. MANSFIELD JOHN L., a Senator from Jefferson. His motions--9 37,
                              48 65 66, 88, 90, 113, 117, 136, 143, 144, 147, 153, 174, 178, 185,
                              191, 197, 199, 203 210, 213, 223, 231. MARCH, WALTER, a Senator from
                              Delaware and Blackford. His motions--8, 9, 10, 31, 37, 44, 46, 47, 48,
                              55, 58, 59, 60, 61, 65, 66, 71, 72, 73, 74 78, 80, 81, 84, 86, 87, 88,
                              89, 92, 102, 107, 108, 111, 113, 114, 116, 117, 122, 127, 128 129,
                              130, 13*, 139, 140 142, 145, 146, 151, 153, 154, 157, 166, 168, 169,
                              173, 174, 179, 180, 186, 189, 191, 197, 198, 201, 206, 207, 208, 223,
                              226, 232, 233, 234, 235. MARSHALL, JOHN D., a Senator from Grant and
                              Madison. Mis motion--58.MARSHALL, JOSEPH C., a Representative from
                              Wabash and Kosciusko. His motions--10, 98, 129.  MASON, JAMES L., a Representative from
                              Shelby and Hancock. His motions--29, 48, 61, 82, 114, 119, 152, 167,
                              200. McCLURG, LEANDER, a Senator from Clinton and Carroll. His
                              motions--9, 13, 18, 19, 31, 40, 41, 55, 59, 80, 81, 87, 143, 174, 222.
                              MCDONALD, Hon. JOSEPH E., Attorney. His argument on Contested Election
                              Cases--50 55 56. McGAUCHEY, SAMUEL, a Representative from Huntington
                              and Whitley. Hid motions--82, 88, 109, 234. MELLETT, JOSHUA H., a
                              Senator from Henry. His motions--8, 9, 34, 37, 38, 47, 48, 52, 60, 73,
                              81, 90, 98, 100, 105, 106, 107, 108, 131, 142, 143, 145, 146, 158,
                              165, 169 173, 175, 177, 178, 179, 198, 203, 204, 205, 207, 208, 211,
                              219, 220, 223, 228. MILLER, CORNELIUS J., a Representative from
                              Clinton. His motions--12, 28, 34, 43, 50, 56, 57, 61, 68, 71, 82, 85,
                              94, 109, 112, 119, 123, 128, 129, 135, 141, 146, 155, 157, 163,166.
                              MILROY, JOHN B. a Representative from Carroll. His motions--28, 33,
                              54, 61, 77, 81, 85, 123, 133, 135, 152, 159, 166, 167, 188. MOORE,
                              GEORGE W.. a Senator from Owen and Greene. His motions--10, 36, 43,.
                              44, 47, 84, 85, 97, 100, 180, 189, 205, 224. MOORMAN, JOHN A, a
                              Representative from Randolph. His motions--12, 34, 46, 47, 70, 71, 82,
                              93, 96, 99, 115, 119, 121, 124. MORGAN, CHARLES D., a Representative
                              from Henry. His motions--12, 32, 49, 58, 65, 93, 103, 135, 141.
                              MURRAY, CHARLES L., a Senator from Elkhart and Lagrange. His
                              motions--13, 14, 20, 21, 41, 47, 48, 58, 59, 60, 74, 78, 79, 84, 89,
                              91, 97, 137, 138, 139, 145, 151, 153, 154, 165, 166, 176, 177, 178
                              191, 197, 211, 222, 223, 224. MUSTARD, SAMUEL, a Representative from
                              Tippecanoe. His motions--81, 93. MUTZ JACOB, a Representative from
                              Shelby. His motions--61, 68, 82, 135, 185, 188. NEW, JOHN C., a
                              Senator from Marion. His motions--44, 60, 67, 73, 79, 80, 97, 98, 111,
                              113, 130, 151, 165., 166, 168, 186, 189, 190. NEWMAN, E. B., a
                              Representative from Wayne. His motions--28, 31, 36, 43, 45, 46, 57,
                              68, 85, 88, 93, 99, 103, 111, 119, 122, 141, 150, 152, 155, 157.
                              NIBLACK, WILLIAM E., a Representative from Knox. His motions-- 11, 28,
                              29, 30, 33, 34, 50, 53, 68, 70, 75, 76, 85, 88, 104, 105, 110, 111,
                              112, 118, 119, 120, 122, 123, 124, 134, 135, 140, 141, 149, 150, 152,
                              155, 157, 161, 163, 164, 167, 172, 184, 185, 188, 192, 193, 196, 200,
                              234. NOYES, ENOS B., a Representative from Steuben. His motions--12,
                              43, 44, 49, 54, 93, 94, 125. O'BRIEN, JAMES, a Representative
                              from Hamilton and Tipton. His motions--93, 94, 109, 135.
                              O'BRIEN, JOHN R., a Representative from Martin. His
                              motion--54. OSBORN, REDIN, a Representative from Franklin. His
                              motion--11. PACKARD MARCUS A. 0., a Representative from Marshall and
                              Starke. His motions--12, 28, 29, 30, 31, 35 44, 46, 49, 50, 53, 64,
                              68, 69, 77, 78, 82, 83, 87, 88, 95, 96, 103, 110, 118 119, 123, 124,
                              127, 128, 129, 133, 134, 135, 146, 156, 157, 163, 181, 193, 200, 237.
                              PENDLETON, A. V., a Representative from Johnson. His motion--81.
                              PERRY, RUSSELL B., a Representative from Union and Fayette. His
                              motions--54 83,93. PETTIBONE, DAVID K., a Representative from Lake.
                              His motions--93. 94. PLEAK, JOSEPH D., a Senator from Decatur. His
                              motions--79. 89. PRIEST, GEORGE W., a Representative from Putnam. His
                              motions--53, 62, 120, 121, 133, 155, 192, 200. PUETT, AUSTIN M., a
                              Representative from Putnam. His motions--31, 42, 43, 45, 54, 93, 95,
                              103, 104, 109, 127, 159, 162, 163, 192, 194, 200, 225. RAY, MARTIN M.,
                              a Senator from Hancock and Shelby. His motions--8, 9, 10, 21, 46, 47,
                              48, 51, 55, 59, 66, 67, 70, 72, 79, 81, 83, 84, 86, 91, 92, 97, 102,
                              106, 107, 113, 114, 116, 122, 126, 130, 131, 132, 133, 138, 142, 144,
                              145, 146, 151, 152, 153, 154, 166, 168, 172, 173, 174, 180, 186, 188,
                              189, 191, 197, 198, 199, 202, 204, 207, 209, 210, 211, 212, 219, 221,
                              222, 223, 232, 233. REED ALFRED a Senator from White Benton and
                              Warren. His motions--78, 139, 143, 149, 167, 168, 174, 186, 187, 231.
                              REITZ, JOHN A., a Representative from Vanderburg and Posey. His
                              motion--58.RICHARDSON, JOHN T., a Representative from White and
                              Benton. His motions--77, 82, 85, 146 170. RIPPEY, MATTHEW, a
                              Representative from Elkhart. His motions--135, 155, 157. ROBERTS, OMAR
                              F., a Representative from Dearborn. His motions--12, 28, 29, 33, 53,
                              56, 62, 63, 68, 77, 85, 93, 94, 95, 103, 109, 110, 111, 112, 114, 123,
                              128, 129, 133, 134, 152, 155, 157, 182. ROBINSON, PARIS, a
                              Representative from Pulaski and Jasper. His motions--93, 167. ROE,
                              JOHN L., a Representative from Jefferson. His motion--93. SHAFFER. N.
                              G., a Representative from Fulton. His motions--45, 57, 61, 82, 88,
                              110, 134, 170. SHIELDS, MEDY W., a Senator from Jackson and Jennings.
                              His motions--8, 21, 50, 5*, 65, 78, 79, 80, 83, 84, 89, 90, 102, 117,
                              121, 131, 140, 148, 153, 154, 157, 174, 176, 178, 185, 189. SHOAFF,
                              JOHN P., a Representative from Allen. His motions--67, 156. SHOAFF,
                              SAMUEL A., a Representative from Jay. His motion--68.SHOULDERS,
                              THOMAS, a Senator from Gibson, Pike and Dubois. His motions--13, 48.
                              Proceedings on the occasion of his death--101, 102, 105. SPENCER,
                              ELIJAH M., a Representative fron Posey. His motions-- 54, 57, 62, 82,
                              103, 109, 119, 135, 146, 155, 167. STONE, JOHN L., a Representative
                              from Wabash. His motions--93, 96. TARKINGTON, JOHN S., a
                              Representative from Marion. His motions--29, 54, 104, 123, 133, 152,
                              157, 171. TEEGARDEN, ABRAHAM, a Senator from Laporte and Starke. His
                              motions 44, 79, 81, 114, 122, 145. VAN BUSKIRK, DAVID R., a
                              Representative from Decatur. His motions--11, 23, 32, 53, 62, 65, 93,
                              104, 110, 125, 134, 135, 155. WATERMAN, MILES, a Representative from
                              DeKalb. His motions--29, 35, 43, 46, 50, 54, 58, 61, 86, 88, 94, 109,
                              111, 112, 121, 135, 155, 166, 167. WHITE, MICHAEL D., a Senator from
                              Montgomery. His motions--16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 89, 102, 140, l50, 151,
                              210, 211. WILLIAMS, NATHANIEL, a Representative from Lawrence. His
                              motion--42.WILLIAMS, JAMES D., a Senator from Knox and Daviess. His
                              motions--8, 9, 19, 38, 47, 50, 53, 55, 58, 59, 60, 74, 79, 80, 84, 92,
                              97, 101, 102, 116, 117, 128, 129, 140, 143, 151, 153, 169, 173, 175,
                              186, 188, 199, 206, 219, 220, 222, 232. WILSON, HENRY K., a Senator
                              from Sullivan and Vigo. His motions--8, 44, 117, 121, 135, 152, 156.
                              WOLFE, JACOB B. a Representative from Owen. His motions--48, 50, 57,
                              68, 71, 98, 99, 115, 160, 194, 206. WOLFE, SIMEON K., a Senator from
                              Harrison and Washington. His motions--9, 13, 14, 17, 31, 37, 40, 44,
                              47, 48, 50, 58, 67, 72, 73, 74, 79, 83, 84, 88, 89. 91, 92, 9*, 101,
                              102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 113, 114, 116, 117, 118, 122, 126, 128, 129
                              130, 132, 136, 137, 138, 139, 142, 143, 146, 147, 148, 149, 151, 153,
                              158, 166, 168, 173, 174, 175, 189, 19*, 197, 199, 201, 204, 205, 208,
                              218, 219, 223, 226. WOODRUFF, ISRAEL D., a Representative from Wayne.
                              His motions--11, 44, 57, 93, 111, 135, 14*, 152, 155, 157. WOOLLEN,
                              THOMAS W., a Representative from Johnson and Morgan. His motions--43,
                              53, 56, 61, 87 94, 99, 112, 115, 134, 136, 140, 147, 170, 172, 236.
                              WRIGHT, EZRA, a Senator from Jasper, Lake and Newton. His motions--92,
                              173, 179, 199. YEAS AND NAYS. SENATE--9, 97, 107, 108, 130, 140, 145,
                              146, 175, 180, 223. YEAS AND NAYS. HOUSE--29, 34, 49, 53, 77, 114,
                              121, 172. 
                  
            
      
