

     ----CITATION----
        Brevier Legislative Reports, Volume IV (1861). Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2009).
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/law/brevier/VAA8558-04
     ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
            
            
                
                    BREVIER  LEGISLATIVE REPORTS: EMBRACING
                        SHORT-HAND SKETCHES OF THE  JOURNALS AND DEBATES  OF THE
                         GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF INDIANA
                    CONVENED IN REGULAR SESSION On the 10th day of
                        January, 1861
                
                By ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER, Reporters.
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                    DAILY INDIANA STATE SENTINEL, PRINT
                    1861
                
                
                    
                        
                            
                                VOL. IV
                            
                        
                    
                
            

            
            
                
                    
                        
                            
                                Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be directed to
                                contract with ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER for 600
                                copies of their Brevier Reports of the Proceedings and Debates of
                                the present session of the General Assembly one copy to be laid on
                                the desk of each member of the Senate as printed, and the remainder
                                to be bound and distributed as the Laws and Journals-Provided, The said Reports, except the binding, shall not
                                cost more than one dollar per copy. Senate Journal,
                                    Feb. 15. 
                        
                    
                

                 MR. FRAZIER proposed that ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER be allowed $500 for 500
                    copies of the Brevier Reports; which was adopted-yeas 59, nays 13. House Journal, March 7.
            
        
        
            
            
                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 14, 1861
                        No. 1 
                    
                    
                        INDIANA LEGISLATURE  IN SENATE. 
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 10, 1861
                        


                        Pursuant to the provisions of the constitution, the Senate of Indiana met
                            in the Senate Chamber this, the Thursday after the first Monday in
                            January, 1861, in regular biennial session being the forty-first session
                            of the General Assembly of the State and was called to order at 9 1/2
                            o'clock A. M., by JAMES H. VAWTER, Esq., the
                            Principal Secretary of the last session

                        The names of Senators who were members of the last Senate, and whose term
                            of office has not expired, were called by the Secretary and the
                            following Senators holding over answered to their names: 
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        From the county of Allen-Allen Hamilton.
                                        From the county of Bartholomew-Smith Jones.
                                        From the counties of Benton, Warren and White-George
                                            D. Wagner.
                                        From the counties of Clinton and Carroll-James
                                            Odell.
                                        From the counties of Crawford and Orange-Quinton
                                            Lomax.
                                        From the county of Dearborn-Cornelius O'Brien.
                                        From the county of Floyd-D. C. Anthony.
                                        From the county of Franklin-Aaron B. Line.
                                        From the counties of Grant and Madison-Harvey Craven. 
                                        From the counties of Green and Owen-J. W.
                                            Conley.
                                        From the counties of Hamilton and Whitley-J. R. Slack. 
                                        From the county of Jefferson-John R. Cravens.
                                        From the counties of Knox and Daviess-Jas. D. Williams 
                                        From the counties of Kosciusko and Wabash-James D.
                                            Conner.
                                        From the counties of Lake, Porter and Jasper-David
                                            Turner.
                                        From the counties of Martin and Lawrence-T. R. Cobb. 
                                        From the counties of Monroe and Brown-W. C.
                                            Tarkington.
                                        From the counties of Ohio and Switzerland-Benjamin
                                            Robinson. 
                                        From the counties of Parke and Vermillion-George R.
                                            Steele. 
                                        From the counties of Posey and Vanderburg-M. T.
                                            Carnahan.
                                         From the county of Tippecanoe-M. C. Culver. 
                                        From the counties of Warrick, Spencer and Perry-John
                                            C. Shoemaker.
                                         From the county of Wayne-Othniel Beeson.
                                    
                                
                            
                        

                         The names of Senators elect were then called, and the following
                            appeared, presented their credentials, and took the oath of office at
                            the hands of Judge Elliott, of the thirteenth (Wayne) Circuit Court,
                            which is in the following words : "You and each of you do solemnly swear
                            that you will support the Constitution of the United States and the
                            Constitution of the State of Indiana, and that you will faithfully
                            discharge your duty as Senators during your continuance in office, so
                            help you God." 

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        From the counties of Cass, Howard and Pulaski-R. P. De
                                            Hart.
                                        From the counties of Clark and Scott-C. P.
                                            Ferguson.
                                        From the counties of Clay and Putnam-Archibald
                                            Johnson.
                                        From the county of Decatur-Richard Robbins.
                                        From the counties of Delaware and Blackford-Walter
                                            March.
                                        From the counties of Fayette and Union-Benjamin F.
                                            Claypool.
                                        From the county of Fountain-Henry Campbell.
                                        From the counties of Gibson, Pike and Dubois-Thomas
                                            Shoulders.
                                        From the counties of Hamilton and Tipton-G. B.
                                            Grubb.
                                        From the counties of Hendricks and Boone-Solomon
                                            Blair.
                                        From the county of Henry-Joshua H. Mellett.
                                        From the counties of Johnson and Morgan-F.
                                            Landers.
                                        From the counties of La Grange and Elkhart-C. L.
                                            Murray.
                                        From the counties of Laporte and Starke-Abraham
                                            Teegarden.
                                        From the county of Marion-H. C. Newcomb.
                                        From the counties of Miami and Fulton-D. R.
                                            Bearss.
                                        From the county of Montgomery-Michael D. White.
                                        From the counties of Noble, De Kalb and
                                            Steuben-Timothy R. Dickinson.
                                        From the county of Randolph-Asahel Stone.
                                        From the county of Ripley-James S. Hull.
                                        From the county of Rush-E. H. W. Berry.
                                        From the county of Shelby and Hancock-M. M.
                                            Ray.
                                        From the counties of St. Joseph and Marshall-John F.
                                            Miller.
                                        From the counties of Vigo and Sullivan-H. K.
                                            Wilson.
                                        From the counties of Washington and Harrison-Simeon K.
                                            Wolfe.
                                    
                                
                            
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
                            Mr. WAGNER. Mr. Secretary: I move you, sir, That we now proceed to
                                the election of a President of the Senate, and I nominate for that
                                office, Mr. John E. Cravens, of Jefferson county. 
                             Mr. SLACK. I would nominate A. B. Line, of Franklin. 
                            The Secretary called the roll, and the result of the first ballot was
                                as follows:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Those Senators who voted for Mr. Cravens, were-

                                        Messrs. Anthony, Bearss, Beeson, Berry, Blair, Campbell,
                                            Claypool, Conner, Craven of Madison, Culver, DeHart,
                                            Dickinson, Grubb, Hull, March, Mellett, Miller, Murray,
                                            Newcomb, Robbins, Robinson, Steele, Stone, Teegarden,
                                            Turner, Wagner, and White-27.

                                        Those Senators voting for Mr. Line were-

                                         Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Ferguson, Hamilton,
                                            Johnson, Jones, Landers, Lomax, O'Brien, Odell, Ray,
                                            Shoemaker, Shoulders, Slack, Tarkington, Williams,
                                            Wilson, and Wolf-19.

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. CRAVENS having received a majority of all the votes cast, was
                                declared by the Secretary, to be
                                duly elected President of the Senate, and Senators Wagner and Slack
                                were appointed to conduct Mm, the President elect, to the chair.

                            Upon ascending to the forum-

                            The PRESIDENT said: Gentlemen of the Senate, I shall not detain you
                                from the further and complete organization of this body with any
                                remarks, further than to return you my sincere thanks for the honor
                                just conferred upon me. If it is the result of any former fidelity
                                on my part to the faithful discharge of the duties to which I am
                                called, it will only enhance the honor.

                            I will make one remark, however. There never has been in the history
                                of the country, a time, when men are assembled as you are, which
                                requires a more earnest and deep consideration of the interests of
                                our common country. There never was a time when men are more
                                earnestly called upon to do so in the spirit of statesmen and
                                patriots.

                            Without saying anything further at this time, I shall ask you to
                                continue the proceedings in the organization of the Senate. 

                            Mr. CONNER. Mr. President, I move that we proceed to the election of
                                a Principal Secretary of the Senate, and for that office I nominate
                                James N. Tyner, of Miami.

                            Mr. SLACK. I nominate Charles I. Barker, of Madison county.

                            There being no other nominations, the roll was called, and the first
                                ballot resulted: For Mr. Tyner, 28; for Mr. Barker, 20the same as
                                the vote for President, except that Senator Cravens voted for Mr.
                                Tyner, and Senator Line for Mr. Barker.

                            The PRESIDENT declared Mr. Tyner to be duly elected Secretary of the
                                Senate, and he was thereupon sworn into office. 

                            Mr. MURRAY. I move that the Senate proceed to the election of an
                                Assistant Secretary. I nominate Francis P. Griffith, of
                                Lagrange.

                            Mr. SLACK. I nominate E. Rose, of Greene county.

                             There being no other nomination, the roll was called and the ballot
                                resulted-for Mr. Griffith, 28 : for Mr. Rose, 20-a strict party
                                vote.

                            The PRESIDENT declared Mr. Griffith elected, and the oath of office
                                was administered to him.

                            Mr. CONNER nominated for Doorkeeper Samuel G. Thompson, of Wabash
                                county.

                            Mr. SLACK nominated George R. Griffin, of Marion.

                            There being no other nominations, the roll was called. Mr. Thompson
                                received 28 votes and Mr. Griffin 20 votes.

                            The PRESIDENT declared Mr. Thompson elected, and he took the usual
                                oath. 

                            Mr. BLAIR nominated for Assistant Doorkeeper Richard H. Litson, of
                                Jefferson.

                            Mr. SLACK nominated George R. Patterson, of Perry.

                            There being no other nomination, the roll was called. Mr. Litsori
                                received 28 votes and Mr. Patterson 20 votes.

                            The PRESIDENT declared Mr. Litson elected, and the oath was
                                administered to him by Judge Elliott.

                            Mr. SLACK offered a resolution informing the House of the complete
                                organization of the Senate, and announcing its readiness to proceed
                                to business.

                            The resolution was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                             Mr. WAGNER offered the following:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That all resolutions,
                                            motions, propositions and bills having reference to the
                                            present condition of our national affairs, be referred
                                            without debate to the Committee on Federal
                                                Relations.
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. LINE. Mr. President: It seems to me, in view of the president
                                condition of our country, that this resolution is rather premature.
                                There may propositions come up here that require a different,
                                direction than "to the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations." With due respect to the opinion of the
                                gentleman from Warren, (Mr. Wagner,) I do think it is premature, and
                                shall feel in duty bound to vote against it. 

                            Mr. WAGNER. Mr. President, I have no doubt this Senate will spend a
                                good deal of time in considering the Federal affairs of our country,
                                and if these matters are allowed to be thrust upon us at this early
                                stage, we will hear nothing else in this Hall from the beginning to
                                the end of the session, as new phases are coming to light every day.
                                I will put my name to resolutions expressing the opinion of the
                                Indiana Legislature upon this subject, yet I do not propose to, and
                                I hope Senators do not, thus early in the session. This is a mere
                                resolution to be rescinded at the will of the Senate, and I could
                                quote high authority to show that such a rule is usually adopted by
                                large bodies. 

                             Mr. LINE. The gentleman, (Mr. Wagner,) gives as a reason why his
                                resolution should be adopted, that it would have a tendency to
                                facilitate business. I assume that we had better do too little, and
                                do it right, than a great deal and do it incorrectly. It is not
                                putting the Senate in a proper position to thus commit it so early
                                in the session on this question.

                             Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual motion- yeas 20, nays 28; a party vote
                                to lay the resolution on the table. 

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. Mr. President, I would be willing to see this
                                resolution passed at any stage of the session but the present. I
                                think with the Senator from Franklin, (Mr. Line,) that it is
                                premature. That we may now or hereafter discuss the question, it
                                seems to me nothing more than right and proper. It is the great
                                question of the day, and I apprehend it is or is not in the power of
                                the Senate to do more good in legislating upon the existing
                                difficulties, than all else the Senate will be able to do during its
                                sitting. All subjects concerning
                                our national difficulties should be freely discussed, and we should
                                come to a deliberate conclusion, and pass such resolutions as will
                                become the sentiment of the people of Indiana. There is a great
                                difference of opinion as to the origin of these troubles; and I
                                trust the gentleman will withdraw his resolution for the present. If
                                we could hear the voice of the people of Indiana, they would say
                                "Settle the financial difficulties of the country and you have
                                settled your political difficulties to a great extent." If the
                                Senator does not feel disposed to withdraw his resolution, I will
                                move to postpone it till next Tuesday, and make it the order for 10
                                o'clock. 

                            Mr. STEELE. I do hope the Senator will not insist upon that motion. I
                                look upon this as one of the most important things that will come
                                before the Senate at the present session. If we are to get into a
                                party difficulty at the very commencement of this session-as seems
                                to be brewing to day-I think it the very worst thing that could be
                                done. I hope for the benefit of the Senator, (Mr. Tarkington,) and
                                all others who take that ground, that discussion will be postponed
                                for the present; that we will not be precipitately rushed into
                                action upon this subject, and take sides. I see from the moving of
                                the waters, not only in other portions of the State, but in this
                                city, there is a disposition to take grounds upon this great
                                question of the Union, that I would not like to adopt, myself, nor
                                like to see them adopt, although political enemies. Only a day or
                                two ago, in the county of Perry, men assembled by hundreds and
                                passed resolutions declaring, when there is a dividing line between
                                the North and the South, that because they differ with my party in
                                politics, they will go with the South. I say I do not want my
                                Democratic friends to rush headlong into such an unenviable position
                                at this time. Before one month, all men will have to take one ground
                                or another,either with the tories of South Carolina, or with the
                                Union. I have as much sympathy with the South as any Senator upon
                                this floor, and I would as soon go to war with my fathers, as with
                                my uncles and cousins in the South, but I claim to stand upon my own
                                dunghill. If we have got to pass resolutions similar to what was
                                passed in this city several days ago, there will be little business
                                done, and I thank the Senator from Warren, (Mr. Wagner,) for
                                introducing a resolution of this kind. That committee can probably
                                make a report that will satisfy Democrats as well as Republicans,
                                instead of our getting into a discussion at the first of the
                                session. 

                            Mr. JOHNSON. I, sir, am in favor of free speech. I think that when we
                                come here, we are come for an interchange of opinions, and I can say
                                to the Senator from Parke (Mr. Steele) that if his side of the House
                                does not get up some furious discussion upon this question, I can
                                almost vouch for this side; but I do not wish to be thus smothered
                                and choked down as to the discussion of anything which is for the
                                good of the country. I came here for the purpose of considering
                                questions that the people are interested in, and I do not think it
                                proper at this stage of the game that we should be smothered. I hope
                                the Republicans will not attempt to do any such thing, although they
                                have a large majority here. 

                            Mr. MARCH. I do not understand that the object of the resolution is
                                to cramp or impede discussion in any shape or form. If that was the
                                object, I would vote against it, for I am for the fullest, and
                                freest discussion in any deliberative body that represents the
                                people. We have now had practical demonstration of the necessity of
                                such a resolution as this ; the object being to reduce that
                                discussion to form. that we may proceed in order. If we expect to do
                                any good upon this subject, we must keep cool, and act with
                                deliberation and with judgment. The whole difficulty proceeds from
                                acting hastily. The Legislature meets but once in two years ; there
                                is a large amount of important business to attend to, and while I am
                                ready to discharge my duty, and express my opinion at the proper
                                time, I desire to see such steps taken as will enable us to proceed
                                without unnecessary discussion until the proper time. 

                             Mr. COBB. I understand the object of the resolution of the Senator
                                from Warren, (Mr. Wagner,) to be, sir, to prevent discussion upon
                                the great and important question of the day. I take, sir, the same
                                view that the Senator ft om Franklin, (Mr. Line,) does. We do not
                                know who will compose that Committee; we do not know whether there
                                will be such a Committee, and I think it is premature that a
                                resolution of this kind should be pressed upon us at this time. It
                                seems to me it is out of order. For one, while I would not enter
                                into any angry discussions over questions that are involved in this
                                subject, yet, at the same time, I am willing and anxious that this
                                Senate should express itself in a cool and deliberative manner upon
                                the questions which now agitate the country. I understand, so far as
                                my locality is concerned, that questions of a national character are
                                of vast more importance to the people of the State of Indiana, than
                                probably any legislative act we may pass upon here. I take it the
                                exigencies of the times require that we, as Senators of the State of
                                Indiana, should express ourselves in such a manner as to give peace,
                                if possible, to the troubled waters; and the sooner we investigate
                                this matter and pass upon it the better for the country. We are
                                looked upon as being a conservative State. The State of Indiana has
                                always been conservative, and when gentlemen talk about any section
                                of the State of Indiana adopting measures that he can not endorse, I
                                say I have seen nothing of the kind. The Senator from Parke, (Mr.
                                Steele) speaks of resolutions passed in a convention held in Perry county; I have seen these
                                resolutions, and I say with the utmost kindness that they embody no
                                principle but that every man in Indiana would have a right to
                                endorse in case of dissolution. They say they will never consent
                                that the Ohio river shall be made the line between the North and the
                                South. Have they no right to take a seat in any part of this country
                                they choose ? I understand these resolutions to show a fidelity to
                                the Union of this country.

                            Mr. WAGNER. I have no doubt now the Senate is convinced, of the
                                necessity of my resolution. Now, one remark. I did not, in offering
                                these resolutions, intend to reflect upon the Democratic party. It
                                is hard for gentlemen having strong feelings upon this subject, to
                                be compelled to sit here and listen to speeches that gentlemen will
                                make upon these questions-even upon this resolution. I. therefore,
                                for the purpose of taking the sense of the Senate, move to lay the
                                motion of the Senator from Monroe, (Mr. Tarkington,) upon the
                                table.

                            This motion was agreed to by yeas 29, nays 19.

                            Mr. WAGNER, demanded the previous question upon the adoption of his
                                resolution.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON objected to the resolution, as not being in order,
                                unparliamentary, &c.

                            The PRESIDENT overruled the objection.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to lay the demand for the previous question on
                                the table.

                            The PRESIDENT decided this motion out of order.

                            The call for the previous question was seconded by yeas 29, nays
                                19.

                            The yeas and nays were demanded, and being ordered and taken,
                                resulted as follows :
                            
                                
                                    
                                         YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Bearss, Beeson, Berry, Blair,
                                            Campbell, Claypool, Conner, Craven of Madison, Cravens
                                            of Jefferson, Culver, De Hart, Dickinson, Grubb, Hull,
                                            Jones, Landers, March, Mellett, Miller, Murray, Newcomb,
                                            Bobbins, Robinson, Steele, Stone, Teegarden, Turner,
                                            Wagner, and White-30.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley, Ferguson, Hamilton,
                                            Johnson, Line, Lomax, O'Brien, Odell, Ray, Shoemaker,,
                                            Shoulders, Slack, Tarkington, Williams, Wilson, and
                                            Wolf-18. 
                                    
                                
                            

                             So the resolution was adopted. 
                        
                        
                            RULES OF ORDER.
                             Mr. JOHNSON offered a resolution, which was agreed to, adopting the
                                rules of the last Senate for the government of this, and requiring
                                the Doorkeeper to furnish each Senator with a copy. 
                        

                        
                            THE EMBEZZLEMENT BILL.

                            Mr. MARCH introduced a bill [S. 1.] "to provide for the safe keeping
                                of the bonds, mortgages and other securities entrusted to the care
                                of certain officers herein mentioned, defining certain felonies and
                                misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment therefor, and providing for
                                certain evidence on the part of the State," which was read the first
                                time, and passed to the second reading, without objection.

                            Mr. MARCH remarked that this was the original embezzlement bill, as
                                it passed both Houses of the last Legislature. 
                        

                        
                            THE RULES-AGAIN.

                            Mr. LINE offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing the
                                appointment of a committee of three to revise the rules and orders
                                for the government of the Senate.

                            The PRESIDENT made the committee to consist of Senators Line, March
                                and Conner. 
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.

                             Mr. LINE offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing the
                                Doorkeeper to place upon the desk of each Senator a copy of the
                                Journal of the House and Senate of the last Legislature, and a copy
                                of the Revised Statutes. 

                            Mr. CONLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing the
                                appointment of a committee to act with a similar committee on the
                                part of the House to wait upon the Governor and learn what time he
                                will be ready to deliver his message.

                            The PRESIDENT made the committee to consist of Senators Conley, Ray
                                and Slack. A motion was agreed to, that when the Senate adjourn it
                                be till to-morrow morning, 9 o'clock.

                            Mr. TURNER offered a resolution, which was adopted by unanimous
                                consent, instructing the Doorkeeper to provide seats inside the bar
                                for such Reporters for the various newspapers as desire them for the
                                purpose of reporting.

                            And then-

                            On motion, the Senate adjourned.
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 10, 1861.
                        
                         This being the day required by the Constitution for the biennial meeting
                            of the Legislature, at 15 minutes before 10 o'clock, the members elect
                            of the House of Representatives of the forty-first General Assembly of
                            the State of Indiana were in their places in the Hall, and Richard J.
                            Ryan, Esq., of Indianapolis, Clerk of the former House of
                            Representatives, called to order and said : In accordance with what I
                            believe is established usage, it becomes my duty as Clerk of the last
                            House of Representatives, to organize this body. This will be done by
                            first calling the roll of names. Gentlemen will please to answer as they
                            are called; and when a quorum of 66 members of the House of
                            Representatives shall have answered, it will be proper to organize, and
                            members of the House will come forward and be sworn in by the Hon. S. E.
                            Perkins, one of the Judges of the Supreme Court, whom I have invited to
                            be present for the purpose; at the same time presenting their
                            certificates to the Clerk. The House will then proceed to the election
                            of the officers required by its organization.

                        Under the Clerk's call the members of the House of Representatives came forward to
                            the area in front of the table, received the oath to " support the
                            Constitution of the United States and the constitution of this State,
                            and to discharge their duties faithfully as members of the General
                            Assembly of the State of Indiana," presenting their certificates of
                            election, as follows:

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        From the county of Allen-C. Treer, M.
                                            Jenkinson.
                                        From the county of Adams-P. N. Collins.
                                        From the county of Bartholomew-E. P. Smith.
                                        From the county of Boone-Nelson Fordyce.
                                        From the counties of Boone and Hendricks-T. J.
                                            Cason.
                                        From the county of Brown-Lewis Prosser.
                                        From the county of Clark-T. J. Howard.
                                        From the county of Carroll-James Thompson.
                                         From the county of Crawford-N. W. Sloan.
                                         From the county of Clinton-Leander McClurg.
                                         From the county of Cass-C. B. Knowlton.
                                        From the county of Clay-Elias Cooprider.
                                         From the county of Dearborn-Omar F. Roberts, C.
                                            Lads.
                                        From the county of Daviess-M. J. Brett.
                                         From the county of Delaware-James Orr.
                                        From the county of Decatur-Ira G. Grover.
                                        From the county of DeKalb-Henry Feagler.
                                         From the county of Dubois-A. T. Fleming.
                                         From the county of Elkhart-Noah Anderson.
                                        From the counties of Elkhart and Lagrange-Robert
                                            Parrett.
                                         From the county of Floyd-John H. Stotsenburg.
                                        From the counties of Fayette and Union-R. W.
                                            Haworth.
                                         From the county of Franklin-Thomas Gifford.
                                         From the county of Fulton-A. H. Robbins.
                                        From the county of Fountain-James Fraley.
                                         From the county of Greene-Wm. E. Moss.
                                        From the county of Grant-Wm. Hall.
                                        From the county of Gibson-Silas L. Holcomb.
                                        From the county of Harrison-Walter Q. Gresham.
                                        From the county of Hancock-Noble Warrum.
                                        From the counties of Hamilton and Tipton-Joseph
                                            Gore.
                                         From the county of Henry-M. L. Bundy.
                                        From the county of Howard-D. D. Lightner.
                                         From the county of Hendricks-James Burgess.
                                        From the counties of Huntington and Whitley-James S.
                                            Collins.
                                        From the county of Johnson-John A. Polk.

                                        From the counties of Johnson and Morgan-John
                                            Stephenson.
                                        From the county of Jennings-L. Bingham.
                                        From the county of Jay-Isaac A. Underwood
                                        From the county of Jefferson-D. C. Branham, J. C.
                                            Wilson.
                                        From the county of Jackson-John L. Ford.
                                        From the county of Knox-Cyrus M. Allen.
                                        From the county of Kosciusko-T. G. Boydston.
                                        From the counties of Kosciusko and Wabash-George W.
                                            Frazier.
                                        From the county of Lake-B. Woods.
                                        From the county of Laporte-Samuel Harvey, M. G.
                                            Sherman.
                                        From the county of Lawrence-Hugh Erwin.
                                        From the county of La Grange-Samuel Hudson.
                                        From the county of Madison-John Hayes.
                                        From the county of Miami-Wm. Smith.
                                        From the county of Marion-W. H. Kendrick, J. H.
                                            Turner.
                                        From the county of Morgan-John W. Ferguson.
                                        From the county of Monroe-Joseph Campbell.
                                        From the county of Montgomery-Richard Epperson.
                                        From the counties of Marshall and Stark-M. A. O.
                                            Packard.
                                        From the county of Noble-J. R. Randall.
                                        From the counties of Ohio and Switzerland-H. T.
                                            Williams.
                                        From the county of Owen-W. Combs.
                                        From the county of Orange-A. M. Black.
                                        From the county of Posey-Wm. C. Pitts.
                                        From the county of Pike-A. J. Wells.
                                        From the county of Porter-R. A. Cameron.
                                        From the county of Parke-John G. Crain.
                                        From the county of Putnam-Higgins Lane, R. S.
                                            Ragan.
                                        From the counties of Pulaski and Jasper-G. C.
                                            Moody.
                                        From the county of Perry-N. Brucker.
                                        From the county of Ripley-John L. Dashiel.
                                        From the county of Randolph-J. A. Moorman.
                                        From the county of Rush-George Thomas.
                                        From the counties of Shelby and Hancock-George Y.
                                            Atkinson.
                                        From the county of Shelby-Jacob Mutz.
                                        From the county of Sullivan-W. W. Owens.
                                        From the county of Spencer-J. C. Veatch.
                                        From the county of Scott-Samuel Davis.
                                        From the county of Steuben-Joseph A. Woodhull.
                                        From the county of St. Joseph-John A.
                                            Hendricks.
                                        From the county of Tippecanoe-W. H. Bryant.
                                        From the county of Vermillion-D. M. Jones.
                                         From the county of Vanderburg-J. S. Hopkins.
                                        From the counties of Vanderburg and Poesy-J. P.
                                            Edson.
                                         From the county of Vigo-W. E. McLean, Nathaniel
                                            Lee.
                                        From the county of Wabash-Stearns Fisher.
                                        From the county of Warren-R. M. Nebeker.
                                        From the county of Wayne-O. T. Jones, E. T. Newman, J.
                                            Woodruff.
                                         From the county of Warrick-Dennis B. Kitchen.
                                         From the county of Washington-Christian Prow.
                                         From the counties of Washington and Harrison-Horace
                                            Heffren.
                                        From the counties of White and Benton-Anson
                                            Hicks.
                                        From the counties of Wells and Blackford-Theodore
                                            Horton.

                                    
                                
                            
                        

                         Ninety-eight members having respondeded, one (Mr. Jones, of Tippecanoe)
                            absent and one from the county of Martin,-vacant. 

                        Mr. HEFFREN. Mr. Clerk, I wish to offer a resolution, which I will read: 

                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved, That the members of this House
                                        will support no person for any office necessary to the
                                        organization of this House, or for any office elective by
                                        the General Assembly, who is not in favor of the
                                        perpetuation of the Federal Union, at any sacrifice of
                                        partizan theories or beliefs, upon a compromise of the
                                        slavery question which will secure the rights of the people
                                        of each and every State, and that without reference to party
                                        antecedents, we recognise the proposition known as the
                                        Crittenden amendment, as presenting such a basis of
                                        settlement. 
                                
                            

                        

                         Mr. HEFFREN. I offer that resolution, Mr. Clerk, whilst the oath that
                            has been administered to us by the Judge of the Supreme Court is still
                            fresh in our minds, that the members of the House of Repreesntatives of
                            the State of Indiana, upon the meeting of her General Assembly, think it
                            important as soon as its members are sworn to support the Federal
                            Constitution and the Constitution of this State, to indicate by
                            resolution, that they are willing to forego all partizan feeling for the
                            common good. I desire that when the intelligence is sent upon the
                            lightning, of the opening of this General Assembly, it shall at the same
                            time go abroad that this body has passed a resolution that they are
                            willing to sacrifice partizan feeling upon the altar of the common good
                            of the country. I desire not to make a speech upon it, because it is a
                            grave question with all of us, whether we come from the North or South,
                            whether we are Republicans, Democrats, or what-not. I appeal to every
                            man who has been sent here to represent the will of the people of
                            Indiana, let us, before any feeling of partizanship shad have arisen,
                            pledge ourselves to each other and to the country, and say it by
                            resolution, that we are opposed to the election of any man to office
                            here, who is not in favor of the perpetuation of this Union, and the
                            Government of the United States, as our fathers made it, and who is not
                            willing to meet his fellow citizens of all the States on common ground
                            for the common good of the country. I
                            have purposely left out of these resolutions every partizan reflection,
                            and simply ask, whilst the oath of our position is still ringing in our
                            ears, that this conservative sentiment may go forth to the country along
                            with the intelligence of our organization. 

                        The CLERK. While the gentleman from Washington and Harrison has been
                            making his remarks, I have reflected upon the subject, and have come to
                            the conclusion that, inasmuch as the resolution does not relate to the
                            organization of the House, it is a matter with which I have nothing to
                            do. 1 therefore decide the resolution out of order. [Applause.]

                        Mr. HEFFREN. It does relate to the organization. The words are in
                            it-marked through with a pencil-but read and included.

                        The CLERK. Of course, the House can reverse my decision. Until it does
                            that, it will stand. [Applause.]

                        Mr. HEFFREN. If the Clerk will notice, the words are in it. 

                        The CLERK. I understand it relates remotely to the organization, but I
                            prefer to let the decision remain. Does the gentleman appeal? 

                        Mr. HEFFREN. Of course, I will not appeal now. 

                        The CLERK. The first thing in order will be the election of Speaker of
                            the House. 

                        Mr. BUNDY nominated Cyrus M. Allen, of the county of Knox. 

                        Mr. McLEAN nominated Col. Horace Heffren, of the counties of Washington
                            and Harrison. 

                        The CLERK. If there is to be no other nomination, the vote will be viva voce. Gentlemen will please to answer with their
                            votes to the call of their names. 

                        The CLERK reported the vote: Whole number 95 votes; necessary to a
                            choice, 48. Of these Alien received 59 votes, and Heffren received 36
                            votes. 

                        The CLERK. Cyrus M. Allen, of the county of Knox, having received a
                            majority of all the votes, cast, I request Mr. Cameron of Porter, and
                            Mr. Heffren of Washington and Harrison, to conduct him to the Chair. 

                        Which being done-

                        The SPEAKER said: Gentlemen of the House of Representatives, allow me to
                            return to you my sincere thanks for the honor you have conferred upon me
                            in my selection to preside over your deliberations during the present
                            session of the General Assembly-Deeply, I may say painfully, impressed
                            with the importance of the position to which you in your partiality have
                            elected me and my inability to promptly and satisfactorily discharge its
                            duties, I nevertheless trusting to the kindness of your hearts and
                            asking you all to extend to me the assistance necessary for the
                            preservation of order and dispatch of business, enter upon the station
                            with a determination to the utmost of my ability to discharge the duties
                            faithfully, efficiently and impartially, disregarding all party bias,
                            and with an eye single to the dispatch of business and the right of
                            every member of this House. Again thanking you for the honor you have
                            conferred upon me, let me recommend that we proceed at once with
                            business for which we have assembled. 

                         Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move that we proceed to the election of
                            Clerk. 

                        The motion was agreed to by consent. 

                        Mr. EDSON nominated N. B. Risinger, of Gibson county. 

                        Mr. KENDRICK nominated Jonathan W. Gordon, of Marion, and the vote
                            proceeded. 

                        The Speaker reported the result, viz: whole number of votes cast 97;
                            necessary to a choice 49. Gordon received 60 votes, Risinger 37. 

                        The SPEAKER. Jonathan W. Gordon, of Marion county, having received a
                            majority of all the votes cast, I declare him to be duly elected
                            Principal Clerk of the House of Representatives. 

                        Mr. GORDON came forward and immediately received the oath of his office
                            at the Speaker. 

                        Mr. ORR. Mr. Speaker, I move that the House proceed to the election of
                            Principal Assistant Clerk.

                        The motion was agreed to by consent. 

                        Mr. - nominated Wm. Fleming, of Allen county. 

                        Mr. HOWARD nominated Azar P. Newkirk, of Lafayette, and the election
                            proceeded. 

                        The CLERK reported the whole number of votes 95; necessary to a choice
                            48-Newkirk receiving 59, Fleming 36.

                        The SPEAKER. Azar P. Newkirk, of Lafayette, having received a majority of
                            all the votes cast, I declare him duly elected to be Principal Assistant
                            Clerk of the House of Representatives. 

                        Mr. Newkirk then took upon him the oath of his office and entered upon
                            its duties. 

                        [A message from the Senate was now received by Mr. Tyner, their
                            Secretary, informing the House of Representatives of the organization of
                            that body and its readiness to proceed to Legislative business.]

                        On motion of Mr. ORR, the House proceeded to the election of a
                            Doorkeeper. 

                        Mr. LANE nominated James F. Johnson, of Putnam county.

                         Mr. PROSSER nominated Wm. H. Taggert, of Brown county.

                        The Clerk reported the whole number of votes 95; necessary to a choice
                            48-Johnston receiving 59 votes, Taggert 36.

                        Mr. SPEAKER. James F. Johnson having received a majority of all the votes
                            cast, I announce that he is elected Principal Doorkeeper of this
                            House.

                        Mr. Johnson was immediately qualified and entered upon his official
                            duties. 

                        

                        Mr. BUNDY. Mr. Speaker, I now offer a resolution.

                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved, That the Senate be informed that
                                        the House of Representatives have convened, formed a quorum
                                        and organized by the election of Hon. Cyris M. Allen
                                        Speaker; the Hon. Jonathan W. Gordon, Clerk; Azur P.
                                        Newkirk, Principal Assistant Clerk, and James F. Johnston
                                        Doorkeeper; and that they are now ready to proceed to
                                        legislative business. 
                                
                            
                        

                         Mr. NEBEKER submitted the following, which was adopted by consent.

                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved, That a committee of three be
                                        appointed, to act with a like committee on the part of the
                                        Senate, to wait upon his Excellency, the Governor, and
                                        inquire of him when it will be convenient for him to deliver
                                        his message to the General Assembly. 
                                
                            
                        

                        The SPEAKER accordingly appointed Messrs. Nebeker, Orr and Bundy to be
                            said joint committee on the part of the House.

                        
                            RULES OF THE HOUSE.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted the following, which was adopted by
                                consent.

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That Jefferson's Manual be
                                            adopted as Rules of this House till otherwise
                                            ordered.
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                             INTRODUCTION OF A BILL.

                             Mr. BRANHAM introduced a bill, (H. R. No. 1,) entitled "An act
                                defining certain felonies and misdemeanors, prescribing punishment
                                therefor, and providing certain evidence on the part of the
                                State."The bill was read the first time, and ordered to the second
                                reading to morrow.

                            Mr. PROSSER submitted the following, which was adopted by
                                consent.

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be
                                            instructed to procure one copy of the Revised Acts of
                                            1852; one copy of the Acts of 1856, and one copy of the
                                            House Journal of 1859, and place the same on each
                                            member's desk in this House.
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. ORR submitted the following, which was adopted by consent. 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a committee of two be
                                            appointed to act with a similar committee on the part of
                                            the Senate, to wait upon some minister of the Gospel of
                                            this city, and request him to open the sessions of this
                                            General Assembly with prayers to-morrow at half-past
                                            nine o'clock.
                                    
                                
                            

                            The SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Orr and Nebeker, accordingly.

                        
                        


                        
                             STATE OF THE UNION.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted now his resolution, which was ruled out by the
                                former Clerk, leaving out the words "in the organization of this
                                House."

                            Mr. FRAZIER. I move to lay the resolution on the table. 

                            Mr. HEFFREN. I know that motion is not debateable. I merely wish to
                                explain that those who would be in favor of adopting the resolution
                                should vote against it. 

                            Mr. NEBEKER. I simply disagree with the gentleman as to the effect of
                                such a vote.

                            The SPEAKER. The gentleman is not in order. 

                            Mr. NEBEKER. I understand that. 

                            Mr. FRAZIER. I withdraw the motion. 

                            Mr. BUNDY. I move to refer the resolution to a select committee of
                                thirteen.

                            Mr. HEFFREN demanded the yeas and nays on this motion, and they were
                                ordered;and being taking the result was-yeas 61, nays 36.

                            So the resolution was referred. 

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, it was-

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Ordered, That when the House adjourns,
                                            it shall be till to-morrow morning, to give the officers
                                            time to arrange their business. 
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, sabmitted the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a committee of three be
                                            appointed to superintend the stationery department of
                                            the House, and take such steps as to prevent waste by
                                            any member or officer of this House, or other person;
                                            and that they report thereon.
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. HEFFREN. I presume we are all honest; whether we are or not, I
                                do not think it ought to be adopted. I should hate to see a
                                resolution implying a want of honesty on the part of members
                                here.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. Mr. Speaker, I could wish that the practice here would
                                altogether justify the good opinion the gentleman from Washington
                                has. 

                             Mr. HEFFREN. This is my first session here.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. If the gentleman will look at the stationery bill for
                                the session of 1857, he will see why this rule was adopted in 1859.
                                The Senate, also, is disposed to pursue a similar course. Every one
                                conversant with the appropriation bill of 1857, knows that the
                                stationery bill was shameful.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG. Mr. Speaker, I desire to present a series of joint
                                resolutions. Permit me to say, that in ordinary times, I could not,
                                (being a young member of the body,) thrust myself forward and
                                present resolutions that look to national affairs; but the times are
                                such, sir, that even in the month of January, 1861, events are so
                                crowding themselves upon us, that we cannot tell when or in how
                                short a period the Union of these States may be dissolved. I desire
                                in stating what these resolutions are, to say briefly that they do
                                not proceed upon the expectation that any remedy can come from
                                Congress. 

                            The SPEAKER. The Chair would suggest to the gentleman, that there is
                                nothing before the House.

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG. I am stating the substance of the resolutions. I
                                believe that is in order under the Manuel of Jefferson. A member is
                                allowed the right to state what his proposition is before making it. 

                            The SPEAKER. The understanding of the Chair is that when a member has
                                a proposition by way of resolution it should be read first.

                            The resolutions were then sent up and read as follows: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Whereas, On account of alleged wrongs
                                            and irregularities suffered within the Union of the
                                            several States composing the United States of America,
                                            the citizens of South Carolina, in convention assembled,
                                            have assumed the ower to dissolve the connection
                                            existing between said tate and the Union; and there is
                                            reasonable ground to apprehend that citizens of other
                                            States for the same cause may shortly take the same
                                            steps: and whereas, all power inherent in the people, and
                                            all wrongs and injustice can be righted in the Union by
                                            the proper use of remedies provided by the Constitution:
                                            and whereas, it is the belief of the people of Indiana
                                            that the settlement of these grave questions should be
                                            removed from the halls of Congress and the various
                                            avenues of partisan strife, and submitted in a
                                            constitutional manner to the people of the whole Union:
                                            Therefore, 

                                        Resolved by the, General Assembly of the
                                                State of Indiana, That in conformity with Art.
                                            V of the Constitution of the United States this General
                                            Assembly does hereby apply to the Congress of the United
                                            States to call a convention, to be chosen by the people
                                            of the different States, for the purpose of considering
                                            and proposing amendments to the Constitution of the
                                            United States and hearing the alleged grievances of the
                                            several States. 

                                        Resolved, That the Legislatures of the
                                            several States are invited and urged to co-operate with
                                            us in this application for a Convention; and the
                                            Governors of those States whose Legislatures are not now
                                            in session, are urged to convene them immediately for
                                            this purpose. 

                                        
                                            Resolved, That Indiana, now as ever,
                                            conservative and loyal, desires the maintenance of the
                                            Union in its vigor and the Constitution in its purity;
                                            that she deprecates either Northern or Southern
                                            resistance to the laws; and while she is willing to make
                                            all reasonable concessions, and to lend her aid to the
                                            redress of all real grievances, she will stand by the
                                            flag of our common country as the only hope of civil and
                                            religious freedom.

                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Governor be
                                            requested to transmit to each of our Senators and
                                            Representatives in Congress, a copy of the foregoing
                                            resolutions for presentation to Congress, and also a
                                            copy to the Governor of each State of the Union, with a
                                            request to lay the same before their respective
                                            Legislatures.
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. STOTSENBURG. I was proceeding to state that these resolutions do
                                not assume that any remedy can be obtained from the Congress of the
                                United States. The events of the day-the current history of the
                                country, show that it is impossible for Congress to compose the
                                existing conflict. It is impossible to expect from that body any
                                acceptable relief. There are extremists on both sides there,
                                belonging to the two great sections, and it is impossible to get a
                                measure of relief from that body. These resolutions do not propose
                                to have these questions settled by them. Neither do they assume that
                                the proper remedy is to be found in any particular State Convention,
                                or in any Convention of the Border States, or in any Convention of
                                the Northern States, or of the Southern States, as such. No State
                                Convention-no Convention of a portion of the States-can settle the
                                present difficulties, and bring peace to the country. Where, then,
                                is the proper remedy to be found ? It in to be found in the people
                                of the United States. Only the people who established and ordained
                                this Government, can have the full right to change it. They alone
                                have the right to hear grievances and right wrongs such as these,
                                and bring peace with healing on its wings to every portion of the
                                country. The Constitution of the United States, Mr. Speaker, was
                                never designed nor intended by its framers to be a perfect
                                Constitution. They had no idea at the time they made it, that its
                                provisions would never be changed, but they expected, as time passed
                                on, that jealousies would be engendered, and State rights invaded,
                                and that remedies would be provided by amendments. The remedy which
                                these resolutions propose would meet the wants of the people. The
                                people ought to act upon the matter, and they will act in every
                                State of this Union. And is it not right and proper, Mr. Speaker,
                                that whenever the citizens of any State, whether of the Northern or
                                Southern extremity, allege that they have grievances, that the
                                proper tribunal should decide whether they are real or imaginary. If
                                their grievances are real, they can be corrected by change of the
                                Constitution. Such a course would pacify the citizens of all the
                                States. It is well known to every man reared upon American soil and
                                acquainted with American institutions, that no State or Colony ever
                                separates from the mother country, without first going before the
                                world and appealing for the justness of their, intentions, with a
                                statement that they have applied for redress and could not get it.
                                Then let us pave the way for the creation of the proper tribunal to
                                hear the grievances of South Carolina. Tell them that the people of
                                the United States, in Convention assembled, will calmly hear and
                                consider all their grievances and wrongs, apply the proper remedy,
                                and afford every reasonable measure of relief. It will give them
                                time to reflect upon the madness which is now urging them to break
                                down the best government which was ever given to man. Mr. Speaker, I
                                am not a partizan in politics here. I have not introduced these
                                resolutions as a partizan measure. I present them as one of the
                                people of the State of Indiana, because I believe, that if the
                                people have a chance for remedy, they will accept readily, and that
                                the press will take it up in its power and proclaim the terms as
                                glad tidings all over the land. I believe that such a proposition as
                                this, as it would flash upon the wires, would be hailed with joy all
                                over our borders from the Atlantic to the Pacific shores. I do not
                                care who has the glory of it; only give us an effectual remedy for
                                the evils that are threatening and imperiling our country. Mr.
                                Speaker, now is the proper, the accepted time for this proposition.
                                Delaware, Virginia, Tennessee, and Kentucky are now calling and
                                holding extra sessions, and other States are holding regular
                                sessions of their Legislatures. They can all act on this matter at
                                once, they can all make this application to Congress, and Congress
                                may immediately call a convention of the States. These States have
                                great power in the confederacy. They desire a Constitutional remedy
                                for every wrong in the Union; and give opportunity for it, and they
                                will gladly embrace it, especially if the proposition comes from the
                                great conservative State of Indiana. Sir, we owe much to these
                                States. Virginia gave us the magnificent domain we occupy. Let us
                                endeavor then to offer to all the States a proper remedy, by giving
                                them a proper tribunal before which to settle all the evils that now
                                afflict us as a nation. I move that the resolutions be printed and
                                referred to the Committee of Thirteen.

                             On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, Mr. Jarvis F. Jones, of Tippecanoe, now came forward,
                                presented his credentials, and received the oath Of a member of the
                                House of Representatives, and took his seat.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. I move to strike out the order to print.

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG accepted the modification of his motion.

                            Mr. McLEAN considered that, as this was a joint resolution, like a
                                bill, it must pass the second reading before the reference.

                            The SPEAKER declared the motion in order, and the resolutions were
                                referred to the Select Committee. 

                        
                        

                        
                            REVISION OF THE RULES.

                            On motion by Mr. RRANHAM, a committee of three was ordered to report
                                a revision of the rules of the last House of Representatives.

                            The SPEAKER accordingly appointed Messrs. Branham, Heffren and
                                Veatch.

                            And then, at 20 minntes before 12, the House adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                         SENATE.

                        
                            FRIDAY, January 11, 1881.
                        

                         M. W. Shields, the Senator elect from Jackson and Jennings counties,
                            appeared, took his seat, and was qualified by taking the oath at the
                            hands of John Paul Jones, Esq., the clerk of the Supreme Court.

                        

                            GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.

                            Mr. CONLEY, from the committee appointed to wait upon the Governor,
                                reported that His Excellency would be ready to deliver his biennial
                                message to the Legislature in the Hall of the House, at 2 o'clock
                                to-day.


                        
                        

                        
                             STATIONERY.

                            Mr. ANTHONY offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                authorizing the appointment of a committee of three to procure
                                stationery for the use of the Senate, and adopt a plan for its
                                distribution.

                        
                        

                        
                            PRAYERS.

                            Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                authorizing the appointment of a committee of three on the part of
                                the Senate to act with a similar House committee in the matter of
                                procuring a clergyman to open the proceedings of the Legislature
                                with prayer at 2 o'clock this afternoon. 

                            The committee was subsequently made to consist of Senators Murray,
                                Turner and Hamilton. 
                        
                        


                        
                             THE NORTHERN PENITENTIARY.

                            Mr. WAGNER offered a resolution, which was adopted, enquiring of the
                                    committee on the State Prison whether the
                                interests of the State have been consulted in the location of the
                                Northern Penitentiary at Michigan City; what part of the $50,000
                                appropriated has been expended; concerning contracts; work done;
                                what the probable cost of completion;and authorizing the committtee
                                to send for persons and papers.

                        
                        

                        
                            THE PUBLIC PRINTING.

                             Mr. MARCH offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    committee on Public Printing to enquire into
                                the expediency of abolishing the office of State Printer, and the
                                expediency of letting the public printing to the lowest bidder.

                        
                        

                        
                            PERSONAL LIBERTY BILLS.

                            Mr. LOMAX offered the following resolution, which was referred to the
                                    committee on Federal Relations under the
                                rule:
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            WHEREAS, in our opinion, the
                                            institution of slavery in the United States affords no
                                            just grounds for the dissentions now existing between
                                            the Northern and Southern States of this Confederacy,
                                            which now so seriously threaten the safety of the
                                            American Government. 
                                        
                                            Resolved, That to avert the calamities
                                            of civil war, we earnestly recommend the repeal of all
                                            such laws as conflict with the laws of Congress known
                                            and recognized as the Fugitive Slave Laws.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        

                        
                             NEWSPAPERS FOR MEMBERS.
                            Mr. COBB offered a resolution directing the Doorkeeper to contract
                                for three copies each of the Daily Sentinel, Daily Journal, Weekly American
                                and Volksblatt; two copies to be enveloped,
                                stamped and ready for mailing.

                            Mr. JOHNSON moved to strike out all except the Sentinel and the Journal.

                            Mr. ANTHONY moved to amend the amendment by striking out all after
                                the word "resolved," and inserting the words "that a committee of
                                three be appointed to inquire into and report upon the expediency of
                                procuring newspapers."

                            This amendment was agreed to, and the PRESIDENT makes the committee
                                to consist of Senators Anthony, Johnson and Murray.

                        
                        

                        
                             POSTAGE STAMPS. 
                            Mr. SLACK offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Doorkeeper to furnish three dollars worth of postage
                                stamps to each member of the Senate. 

                        
                        

                        
                             PRAYERS-AGAIN. 
                            Mr. TURNER offered a resolution inviting the clergy of Indianapolis
                                to meet alternately in the Senate Chamber every morning, and open
                                the session with prayer. 

                            Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution on the
                                table.
                            The resolution was rejected.

                        
                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

                            Was received, inviting the Senate to meet in the Representatives'
                                Hall, at 2 o'clock this day, when the session will be opened with
                                prayer.

                            The invitation was duly accepted. 
                        
                        

                        
                             FEDERAL RELATIONS
                            Mr. TARKINGTON offered the following Joint Resolution, [S. 1,] which
                                was referred under the rule to the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations: 
                            

                            
                                
                                    
                                         Joint Resolutions of Instructions upon the political
                                            questions that are now agitating the Country. 

                                        WHEREAS, serious and alarming
                                            dissentions have arisen between the Northern States,
                                            concerning the rights and security of the rights of the
                                            slaveholding States, and especially their rights in the
                                            common Territory of the United States; and whereas it is
                                            eminently desirable and proper that these dissensions,
                                            which now threaten the very existence of this Union,
                                            should be permanently quieted and settled by
                                            constitutional provisions which shall do equal justice
                                            to all sections, and thereby restore to the people that
                                            peace and good will which ought to prevail between all
                                            the citizens of the United States. Therefore, 

                                        Resolved, That our Senators in Congress
                                            are hereby instructed and our Eepresentatives requested
                                            to procure the following amendments to the laws of
                                            Congress and to the Constitution of the United States,
                                            which shall be valid to all intents and purposes as part
                                            of said Constitution when ratified by conventions of
                                            three-fourths of the several States.

                                        That the following articles be and are hereby proposed
                                            and submitted as amendments to the Constitution of the
                                            United States. 

                                        
                                            ART. 1. In all the Territory of the
                                            United States now held, or hereafter acquired, situate
                                            north 36 deg. 30 min., slavery or involuntary servitude,
                                            except as a punishment for crime, is prohibited while
                                            such Territory shall remain under the Territorial
                                            Government. In all the Territory south of said line of
                                            latitude, slavery of the African race &
                                                hereby recognized as existing, and shall not be
                                            interfered with by Congress, but shall be
                                                protected as property by all the departments of
                                                Territorial Government during its continuance.
                                            And when any Territory, north or south of said line,
                                            within such boundaries as Congress may prescribe, shall
                                            contain population requisite for a member of Congress
                                            according to the then Federal ratio of representation of
                                            the people of the United States, it shall, if its form
                                            of government be Republican, be admitted into the Union
                                            on an equal footing with the original States, with or
                                            without slavery, as the constitution of such new State
                                            may provide.

                                        ART. 2. Congress shall have no power
                                            to abolish slavery in any places under its exclusive
                                            jurisdiction, and situate within the limits of States
                                            that permit the holding of slaves.

                                        ART. 3. Congress shall have no power
                                            to abolish Slavery in the District of Columbia, so long
                                            as it exists in the adjoining States of Virginia and
                                            Maryland, or either, nor without the consent of the
                                            inhabitants, nor without just compensation first made to
                                            such owners of slaves as do not consent to such
                                            abolishment. Nor shall Congress, at any time, prohibit
                                            officers of the Federal Government, or members of
                                            Congress, whose duties require them to be in said
                                            district, from bringing with them their slaves and
                                            holding them as such during the time their duties may
                                            require them to remain there, and afterward taking them
                                            from the District. 


                                        ART. 4. Congress shall have no power
                                            to prohibit or hinder the transportation of slaves from
                                            one State to another, or to a Territory in which slaves
                                            are by law permitted to be held, whether that
                                            transportation be by land, navigable rivers, or by the
                                            sea.

                                        ART. 5. That in addition to the
                                            provisions of the third paragraph of the second section
                                            of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United
                                            States, Congress shall have the power to provide by law,
                                            and it shall be its duty so to provide that the United
                                            States shall pay to the owner who shall apply for it,
                                            the full value of his fugitive slave in all cases when
                                            the Marshall or other officer whose duty it was to
                                            arrest said fugitive, was prevented from so doing by
                                            violence or intimidation, or When after arrest said
                                            fugitive was rescued by force, and the owner thereby
                                            prevented and obstructed in the pursuit of his remedy
                                            for the recovery of his fugitive slave under the said
                                            clause of the Constitution, and the laws made in
                                            pursuance, thereof. And in all such cases, when the
                                            United States shall pay for such fugitive, they shall
                                            have the right, in their own name, to sue the county in
                                            which said violence, intimidation, or rescue was
                                            committed, and to recover from it with interest and
                                            damages, the amount paid by them for said fugitive
                                            slave. And the said county, after it has paid said
                                            amount to the United States, may for its indemnity, sue
                                            and recover from the wrong doers or rescuers by whom the
                                            owner was prevented from the recovery of his fugitive
                                            slave, in like manner as the owner himself might have
                                            sued and recovered. 

                                        ART. 6. No future amendment of the
                                            Constitution shall affect the five preceding articles;
                                            nor the third paragraph of the second section of the
                                            first article of the Constitution; nor the third
                                            paragraph of the second section of the fourth article of
                                            said Constitution; and no amendment shall be made to the
                                            Constitution which shall authorize or give to Congress
                                            any power to abolish or interfere with slavery in any of
                                            the States by those laws it is or may be, allowed or
                                            permitted.

                                        And whereas, also, besides these causes of dissension
                                            embraced in the foregoing amendments proposed to the
                                            Constitution of the United States, there are others
                                            which come within the jurisdiction of Congress, and may
                                            be remedied by its legislative power; and whereas, it is
                                            the desire of this Legislature to have perpetuated the
                                            Union of all the States and to aid in removing all just
                                            cause for the popular discontent and agitation which now
                                            disturbs the peace of the country, and threatens the
                                            stability of its institution: Therefore- 

                                        
                                            Resolved, By the General Assembly of
                                            the State of Indiana, that the laws now in force for the
                                            recovery of fugitive slaves are in strict pursuance of
                                            the plain and mandatory provisions of the Constitution,
                                            and have been sanctioned as valid and constitutional by
                                            the judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States;
                                            that the slaveholding States are entitled to the
                                            faithful observance and execution of those laws, and
                                            that they ought not to be repealed, or so modified or
                                            changed as to impair their efficiency; and that laws
                                            ought to be made for the punishment of those who
                                            attempt, by rescue of the slave, or other illegal means,
                                            to hinder or defeat the due execution of said laws.

                                        2. That all State laws which conflict with the Fugitive
                                            Slave acts of Congress, or any other constitutional acts
                                            of Congress, or which, in their operation, impede,
                                            hinder, or delay the free course and due execution of
                                            any of said acts, are null and void by the plain
                                            provisions of the Constitution of the United States; yet
                                            those State laws, void as they are, have given color to
                                            practices and led to consequences which have obstructed
                                            the due administration and execution of acts of
                                            Congress, and especially the acts for the delivery of
                                            fugitive slaves, and have thereby contributed much to
                                            the discord and commotion now prevailing.

                                        The people of Indiana, through their Representatives,
                                            therefore, in the present perilous juncture, do not deem
                                            it improper to respectfully and earnestly recommend the
                                            repeal of those laws to the several States which have
                                            enacted them, or such legislative corrections or
                                            explanations of them as may prevent their being used or
                                            perverted to such mischievous purposes.

                                        3. That the act of the 18th of September, 1850, commonly
                                            called the Fugitive Slave Law, ought to be so amended as
                                            to make the fee of the Commissioner, mentioned in the
                                            eighth section of the act, equal in amount in the cases
                                            decided by him, whether his decision be in favor or
                                            against the claimant. And to avoid misconstruction, the
                                            last clause of the fifth section of said act, which
                                            authorizes the person holding a warrant for the arrest
                                            or detention of a fugitive slave, to summon to his aid
                                            the posse comitatus, and which
                                            declares it to be the duty of all good citizens to
                                            assist him in its execution, ought to be so amended as
                                            to expressly limit the authority and duty to cases in
                                            which there shall be no resistance, or danger of
                                            resistance or rescue.

                                        4. That the laws for the suppression of the African slave
                                            trade, and especially those prohibiting the importation
                                            of slaves in the United States, ought to be made
                                            effectual and ought to be thoroughly executed; and all
                                            further enactments necessary to those ends ought to be
                                            promptly made.

                                        Resolved, further, That in the event
                                            that the above or equivalent propositions shall fail to
                                            command the requisite vote in the Congress of the United
                                            States, then that our Senators in that body be, and they
                                            are hereby instructed, and our Representatives
                                            requested, to vote for the calling of a National
                                            Convention of all the States for the purpose of amending
                                            the Federal Constitution. 

                                        Resolved, That the Governor be
                                            requested to forward a copy of these resolutions to our
                                            Senators and Representatives in Congress. 

                                    
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        

                        
                             NEW PROPOSITIONS. 
                            The following bills were introduced, read, and severally passed to
                                the second reading without objection :

                            By Mr. SLACK: A bill [S. 2.] for the immediate repeal of an act
                                entitled "An act to  establish
                                courts of conciliation, to prescribe rules, practice, and
                                proceedings therein and the compensation of Judges," approved June
                                11, 1852.

                            By Mr. COBB: A bill [S. 3.] to amend section 18 of an act to
                                prescribe the powers and duties of justices of the peace, in State
                                prosecutions, so as to enable justices to commit defendants in case
                                of conviction, upon failure to pay costs.

                            By Mr. MARCH: A bill [S. 4.] regulating the public printing of the
                                State of Indiana, fixing the compensation therefor, and to abolish
                                the office of State Printer.

                            By Mr. NEWCOMB: A bill [S. 5.] to amend section 238 of an act to
                                revise, simplify and abridge the rules, practice and pleadings in
                                court trials ; so that whenever the assignor is used as a witness by
                                the assignee, the opposite party may offer himself as a witness in
                                his own behalf. 
                        
                        

                        
                             THE EMBEZZLEMENT BILL.
                             Mr. March's embezzlement bill introduced yesterday, was read the
                                second time.

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, the bill was laid on the table, and 200
                                copies ordered printed. 

                            And then-

                            On motion the Senate took a recess until 2 o'clock.

                        
                        

                        
                             AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. LINE presented a petition from certain citizens of Franklin
                                county, praying for the passage of a law requiring that Justices'
                                Docket fees may be paid out of the county treasury; which was
                                referred to a committee consisting of Senators Line, Steele and
                                Hamilton.



                            
                                 PRAYERS.
                                Mr. MURRAY from the Joint Committee appointed
                                    to procure the services of a clergyman to open the joint
                                    session, at 2 o'clock, with prayer, reported that the Rev.
                                    Gilbert Small had consented to perform the service required.

                            
                            

                            
                                A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

                                Inviting the Senate to repair instanter to the Hall of the House
                                    to receive the Governor's Message, was accepted, and accordingly
                                    the Senators left the Chamber for that purpose.

                            
                            

                            
                                AFTER THE RETURN FROM THE HOUSE,
                                On motion-
                                The Senate adjourned till to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, January 11, 1861.
                        

                         The House met at 9 o'clock.

                        The Journal of yesterday having been read-

                        On the motion of Mr. ORR, the vote of yesterday, adopting the resolution
                            for opening the session to-day with prayer by some minister of the
                            Gospel, was reconsidered, and amended so as to make the hour " 2 o'clock
                            this evening.

                        "Mr. HEFFREN. The resolution contains no invitation to the Senate to be
                            present. He submitted an additional amendment to that effect, which was
                            adopted; and then the resolution as amended was adodted. 

                        
                             MR. DASHIELL QUALIFIED.

                            On motion by Mr. Fisher, Mr. Dashiell, the member elect from Ripley
                                county came forward, presented his credentials, received the oath
                                and took his seat.

                        
                        

                        
                            STANDING RULES.

                            Mr. BURNHAM, from the special Committee on Rules,
                                stated that they had made no change in the Rules of the last House,
                                except in the arrangement, in the addition to the Standing
                                Committees, a Committee on Federal Relations, and
                                in the addition of the following rule:"

                            SEC. 18. JOINT CONVENTION. In all joint meetings
                                of the two Houses of the General Assembly convened for a specific
                                purpose, it shall be incompetent for either House, or its members to
                                engage in the transaction of any business other than that for which
                                they were specifically assembled."

                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, amended by Mr. BRANHAM, it was-

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Ordered, That 200 copies of this
                                            Report, and that on the revision of the Joint Rules, "be
                                            printed for the use of the House.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            OVERCOATS AND HATS.
                            On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, it was-

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Ordered, That the Doorkeeper be
                                            directed to prepare a suitable place in the rear of the
                                            Speaker's Chair for the deposit of the overcoats and
                                            hats of members, and that the same be done under the
                                            direction of the Speaker.
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            PUBLIC PRINTER.
                            Mr. GRESHIM submitted the following: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved That a select committee of
                                            five be appointed to appointed to enquire into the
                                            expediency of abolishing the office of State Printer,
                                            and letting out the printing to the lowest responsible
                                            bidder, and the said committee report at an early
                                            day.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. HEFFREN desired to include stationery, which was accepted, and
                                the resolution passed by consent.
                        
                        

                        
                            SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.

                            On motion of Mr. BUNDY, it was-

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Ordered, The the Doorkeeper act as
                                            Sergeant-at-Arms of this House, without any additional
                                            compensation.
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            PAGES.

                            Mr. BRYANT submitted an order, that the Speaker be authorized and
                                requested to appoint three boys to act as pages to this House during
                                the present session.
                            Mr. PROSSER proposed two pages. He would be willing to accept three,
                                if an assistant door keeper could be dispensed with.

                            After debate, in which Messrs. Heffren, Branham, Nebeker and others
                                took part, Mr. Prosser's
                                amendment was rejected with the understanding that there should be
                                but six assistant doorkeepers.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew proposed to amend by inserting the words "
                                at two dollars a day ;" which was agreed to-yeas 77, nays 19. 
                        
                        

                        
                             NORTHERN STATE PRISON.

                            Mr. JENKINSON submitted a preamble and resolution, rehearsing, that
                                whereas it is currently reported and generally believed, that the
                                interests of the State have been sacrificed in the location of the
                                Northern States Prison ; that both the location and the contract for
                                its construction were procured by corrupt means and complicity of
                                State officers, Therefore,

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a committee of five be
                                            appointed, with power to send for persons and papers,
                                            and make a thorough investigation of the same, and
                                            report what legislation is necessary to correct the
                                            evils growing out of said location and the letting of
                                            said contract.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. JENKINSON had been told that the $50,000 appropriated for this
                                prison had been all spent, and that it will cost $40,000 beyond
                                that. 

                            Messrs. ORR and LANE desired to see the resolution pass.

                            Mr. PROSSER was willing to repeal the act authorizing the Northern
                                Prison.

                            Mr. SHERMAN considered this resolution premature. It was a strange
                                resolution to come from a Democrat. He remembered that it was
                                originally claimed as a Democratic measure. He made not objection to
                                the conduct of the commisioners, but considered that no discrepancy
                                would be found in their acts. Objection to the location was perhaps
                                the only plea for the resolution.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. If there had been fraud or unfairness about either the
                                location or construction of the Penitentiary, he cared not where the
                                blame might fall; if there was blame, as a member here and a
                                representative of the people, to protect their interests and to
                                prevent corruption, it was our duty to make a thorough investigation
                                whenever there was even the suspicion of fraud. 

                             Mr. SHERMAN. We are to have a Committee on Public
                                    Expenditures, whose duty it will be to investigate all
                                the acts of these commissioners, with those of other State officers,
                                and we are to have a standing committee on the Affairs of
                                    the Penitentiary; and he considered it safe for the
                                House to rely upon the reports of these committees. He desired to
                                move to lay the resolution on the table.

                            Mr. CAMERON proposed to amend the resolution by striking out all that
                                part of the inquiry which relates to the location.

                            Mr. PROSSER. That is the very thing we want to get at.

                            Mr. FISHER. The amendment should not prevail. The belief is universal
                                that there has been corruption and wrong in the matter Whether this
                                be true or false, the facts ought to be shown. If the location has
                                been honestly made, the Commissioners ought to be justiied. If there
                                have been corruptions, let them be exposed. Let the resolution pass
                                in its original shape.

                            Mr. FRAZIER was in favor of investigation, but would prefer the
                                resolution and amendment should go to one of the Standing Committees
                                either that on Public Expenditures, or that on
                                the Penitentiary. I am not willing to trust it in
                                Democratic hands. I move to lay the subject on the table.

                            The motion was withdrawn for-

                            Mr. CAMERON. I did not offer the amendment to cover up investigation
                                as to the location of the prison, but simply to stop inquiry as to
                                its eligibility. I know that there has been a contest for that
                                location between Logansport, Fort Wayne and Michigan City. I am
                                satisfied that either of these would have been an eligible location;
                                and I am satisfied that only time will be wasted by an investigation
                                of this matter. The gentleman from Allen (Mr. Jenkinson) seems to
                                bring up and expose all these old matters. His people seem to think
                                Alien county has been set back in the world because Michigan City
                                has been selected for the location of one of the benevolent .
                                institutions of the State. He said there were many reasons for the
                                location at Michigan City, and now there had been expended $52,000
                                in the construction and other matters. Did the gentleman propose to
                                throw this away because he might discover that the water was not
                                good in Michigan City, or that stone quarries were not convenient? 

                            [Here a message from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Tyner, announced the
                                action of that body, and its concurrence in the appointments for
                                opening the business of the session by prayers, and for hearing the
                                Governor's Message in joint Convention of the two Houses at 2
                                o'clock P. M. this day. 

                            Mr. NEBEKER, on behalf of the Joint Select Committee to wait on the
                                Governor, reported that the Governor had appointed to deliver his
                                biennial Message at two o'clock.
                            Which report, and the Senate's action in this matter, were concurred
                                in by consent.]

                            Mr. JENKINSON said, if there had been mistake in the location of the
                                Northern Prison, it ought to be repudiated. He was prepared to show
                                that Michigan City was the worst location that could have been made
                                in the State. The gentleman would not investigate this. So they have
                                the benefit of the larceny, they don't care about the punishment of
                                the guilty.

                            Mr. FRAZIER moved to lay the subject on the table.

                            Mr. HEFFREN demanded a division of the question.

                            Whereupon Mr. Cameron's amendment was tabled by yeas 85, nays 8; but
                                the House refused to table the original resolution, and the question
                                recurred thereon.

                            Mr. EDSON was willing to strike out the words "and generally
                                believed." He represented a district about as far removed from the scene of action as any in
                                the State, and they neither knew nor believed anything about the
                                matter. They were perfectly willing to let this institution remain
                                where it is. They did not want to abolish it. They might have the
                                rogues that might be sent there. We had our share already. 

                             Mr. STOTSENBURG desired to amend the resolution, by getting clear of
                                the Preamble, and sent up the following :


                            
                                
                                    

                                        Strike out all before the resolution and insert the
                                            following:

                                        That a committee of five members be appointed by the
                                            Speaker, whose duty it shall be to send for persons and
                                            papers, and make an investigation of all the matters
                                            connected with the location and contract for the
                                            construction of the Northern State Prison, and report to
                                            the House all the facts connected therewith, and what
                                            legislation, if any, is necessary to correct any evils
                                            or frauds in the location of said prison, and the
                                            contracting for the building of the same, if any have
                                            been committed. 
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. JENKINSON accepted the amendment.

                            Mr. FRAZIER was not opposed to investigation. He had merely wanted to
                                give the subject to a standing committee.

                            The resolution was now adopted. 

                        
                        

                        
                             STATE OF THE UNION. 
                            Mr. VEATCH submitted the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That all matters and
                                            resolutions in relation to the present excited State of
                                            our country, and all matters and resolutions proposing
                                            remedies therefor, be referred to the Committee of
                                            Thirteen without debate; and that said committee be
                                            instructed to report at as early a day as
                                            practicable.
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. VETCH. I have but a word to offer in eqplanation of that
                                resolution. The object, whatever may come of it, is that we here
                                upon this subject may have reasonable time for deliberation. Too
                                hasty action, or too great delay are equally liable to destroy good
                                results. It is to restrain action till the proper time that I have
                                offered this, and in no respect desiring to choke debate. I am
                                anxious that this question should be discussed, and I think we
                                should earnestly and seriously consider it.

                            Mr. HFFFREN hoped the resolution would not be adopted. Yesterday when
                                it was poured over the wires that a vessel of the United States had
                                been fired into in the harbor of South Carolina, with what eager
                                haste did every man ask after the intelligence ? What party would
                                gag down discussion of the weighty questions upon us? We came here
                                as representatives of a free people to consider their wants and
                                desires, and to make free expression of them; and when it was known
                                that a portion of the Confederacy were in open rebellion, should we
                                have our mouths closed that we dare not utter the voice of our
                                people; should it be required of us when our country is in danger to
                                refer all our propositions to a committee of thirteen without a
                                single word of our own, and let that committee meet in some dark
                                room of the Capitol, and there pore over them for days, and the
                                people meanwhile be left without any knowledge of the sentiments of
                                this body? Whilst he was willing that all resolutions should go to
                                that committee, he would not stop the mouths of members presenting
                                them. Were gentlemen afraid to have their names on the record, and
                                to show how the great State of Indiana stands on the grave and vital
                                questions involved? Was it possible that when the government of the
                                country is threatened and its flag is dishonored, which we are wont
                                to see floating on high-was it possible that here we should be
                                required to keep our mouths closed and remain dumb as sheep before
                                the shearers? Not so did that convention which met in 1776. He
                                proceeded to appeal to gentlemen on both sides of the House against
                                the adoption of the resolution from the consideration that the
                                privilege of debate should not be restrained upon such a question by
                                the representatives of the people. The dark and lowering clouds of
                                disunion were hanging over us with scarcely a beam to illuminate our
                                pathway. It was no time for our voices to be hushed. Gentlemen had
                                been talking an hour or more about the northern Penitentiary; and it
                                was not improbable that the subject of newspapers for the use of
                                members would occupy their time for a day or two. Were these
                                subjects of more importance than the maintainance of this Union,
                                than the preservation of the inheritance our fathers had left us? He
                                proceeded at some length to appeal to the majority to extend in this
                                case the same liberality which under like circumstances they would
                                expect and desire for themselves. 

                             Mr. VEATCH. In his humble judgment, the main object here was time to
                                reflect upon the subject. When a man reflected upon it, he could say
                                what he has to say in much less time. If the object were to get
                                information upon the subject, time would be saved by every gentleman
                                taking reasonable time for reflection before he speaks. We had all
                                seer, the effect of the hasty consideration of matter from time to
                                time. What did the gentleman from Washington (Mr. Heffren) desire by
                                his appeal for a free expression of opinion? So far as he was
                                concerned, he would pledge himself never to be in favor of
                                repressing reasonable debate. The gentleman himself gave an example
                                yesterday of the effect of springing debate upon this subject, out
                                of order, and before the organization of the House, and had delayed
                                business and the time of the House at the expeuse of the State. When
                                all the propositions on this subject should be submitted and
                                referred, he (Mr. V ) would be as anxious as the gentleman himself
                                to have a prompt report, upon the whole matter, and a fair and
                                earnest consideration with the utmost freedom of debate. Would the
                                escape of gas here-mere noise made by himself or any other
                                member-save the country? Could debate here prevent the happening of
                                events now taking place in Charleston harbor? If each one of us
                                would take the proposition to our rooms, and first consider it
                                there, then we could come back here with earnest hearts and maturer
                                ideas, and better prepared to stand  as one man for the best interests of
                                our common country, and much more likely to agree than if we hurried
                                without hesitation into the vortex of hasty debate. 

                            Mr. JENKINSON proposed to amend by way of substituting a memorial to
                                Congress, instructing, our Senators and requesting our
                                Representatives to vote for such supply of men and means by the
                                General Government, as shall be sufficient to protect the Federal
                                property at the South, and punish the traitors invading it.

                            The SPEAKER decided the amendment out of order-not germain to the
                                matter of the resolutions.

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay Mr. Veatch's resolution on the table, and
                                demanded the yeas and nays, which being ordered and taken, resulted,
                                yeas 39, nays 58, as follows: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS-Messrs. Atkinson, Black, Brett,
                                            Collins of Adams, Combs, Cooprider, Davis, Edson,
                                            Fleming, Ford, Gifford, Hall, Hayes, Heffren, Holcomb,
                                            Horton, Howard, Jenkinson, Jones of Tippecanoe, Kitchen,
                                            Knowlton, Lads, McClurg, McLean, Moss, Mutz, Owens,
                                            Packard, Pitts, Polk, Prosser, Prow, Robbins, Roberts,
                                            Smith of Bartholomew, Stevenson, Stotsenburg, Trier and
                                            Warrum-39. 

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Anderson, Bingham,
                                            Boydston, Branham, Brucker, Bryan, Bundy, Burgess,
                                            Cameron, Campbell, Cason, Collins of Huntington, Grain,
                                            Dashiel, Epperson, Erwin, Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher,
                                            Fraley Frazier, Gore, Gresham, Grover, Harvey, Haworth,
                                            Henricks, Hopkins, Hudson, Hurd, Jones of Vermillion,
                                            Jones of Wayne, Kendrick, Lane, Lee, Lightner, Moody,
                                            Moorman, Nebeker, Newman, Orr, Parrett, Eagan, Randall,
                                            Sherman, Sloan, Smith of Miami, Thomas, Turner,
                                            Underwood, Veatch. Wells, Williams, Wilson, Woodhull,
                                            Woodruff, Woods and Mr. Speaker-58. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             So the House refused to lay the resolution on the table.

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG desired to amend by striking out the words "without
                                debate."

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, said, four years ago he stood here with a
                                majority of twenty Democrats and then he insisted on the utmost
                                liberality of discussion. He cited particular cases, and desired now
                                that the same consideration be extended to him.

                            Mr. BRANHAM admitted, with his friend from Washington and Harrison,
                                (Mr. Heffren) that the country was in a critical condition, which it
                                became us to consider maturely. In the main lie could cordially
                                endorse the resolution of the gentleman from Allen, (Mr. Jenkinson;)
                                but it became the House not to do anything hastily. Whilst he was in
                                favor of maintaining the Union at any and every hazard and cost, if
                                it were absolutely necessary to make the sacrifice, he was ready,
                                also, to hold out the olive branch to our Southern friends. Let us
                                go calmly and deliberately into this discussion, and he would pledge
                                himself to his Democratic friends, as far as his vote was concerned,
                                that they should have every opportunity for the discussion of all
                                propositions to advance the interests of the country.

                            Mr. PROSSER, The Democratic party were in the minority, and he was
                                not going to beg the question. The responsibility was the
                                Republicans. They would do as they 'I pleased, and he would hold
                                them to their record.

                            Mr. NEBEKER, He knew the gentleman from Brown, and the gentleman
                                perhaps only desired to consume the time here by speech to prevent
                                wholesome legislation. He was willing to go upon the record for the
                                Union and the enforcement of the laws, and the declaration, that the
                                Union must and shall be preserved. [Applause.] 

                             Mr. STOTSENBURG was willing to throw aside his party predilections
                                for the purpose of such action as shall give proper and prompt
                                expression to the voice of the people of Indiana. He believed all
                                men here were for peace. He only objected to one thing in the
                                resolution. He desired the reference of all propositions; but he did
                                not wish to repress needful debate. There was no telling how soon
                                the time would come when we should be called upon to act.

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG'S amendment was rejected by yeas 37, nays 61, and the
                                question recurred on the original resolution.

                            Mr. HEFFREN made a brief reference to the demonstrations with which
                                his resolution offered yesterday morning was received, and also to
                                the demonstrations just now accompanying the remarks of the
                                gentleman from Warren, (Mr. Nebeker,) and said if every outburst of
                                pariotism here is to be greeted in, this manner I am constrained to
                                say that I do not think it proper or expedient or becoming this
                                body. 

                             Mr. NEBEKER. The gentleman from Washington tells us there were
                                hisses in his neighborhood ; but in my neighborhood there were no
                                hisses. As it regards the demonstrations after the ruling of the
                                Clerk yesterday, I confess that I hai a hand in that matter. Why ?
                                Because I held that the resolution offered by the gentleman from
                                Washington, (Mr. Heffren,) would have done away with the right of
                                some members to vote for Republican officers here, and that portions
                                of the State represented here, would have been disfranchised. He
                                might have intended to disfranchise the entire Republican party.

                            The SPEAKER. The Chair would take occasion to say that all noisy
                                demonstrations, whether of approval or disapproval on the part of
                                members should be strictly avoided. We are met here as a
                                deliberative body, for the purpose of enacting laws for the benefit
                                of our constituents, and the Chair hopes that there will be no
                                demonstrations in future.

                            Mr. Veatch's resolution was adopted without a division. 
                        
                        

                        
                             THE CLERK'S SEAT.

                            Mr. BUNDY submitted the following, which was adopted:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Ordered, That the Committee
                                                on Stationery be authorized to procure a
                                            desk and high seat for the use of the Clerk of this
                                            House.
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. ORR, from the Select Committee on Prayers, reported that
                                the Rev. Gilbert Small would attend for that purpose at 2
                                o'clock.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB, by leave, presented the memorial of the Board of
                                Trustees of the town of princeton, asking for relief in the matter
                                of a School House Debt; which was referred to a select committee,
                                viz: Messrs. Holcomb, Hopkins and Wells.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS introduced a bill [H. R. 2,] entitled an act declaring
                                it to be a felony to leave open gates and let down fences, or
                                destroy cattle guards along the lines of railroads, and providing a
                                penalty therefor.

                        
                        

                        
                            STATIONERY.

                            Mr. JONES of Vermillion, from the select committee on that subject,
                                made a report relative to the House stationery, stating that it
                                would be given to members from the stationery room, and the amount
                                charged to each by a clerk-Mr. James A. Bell. The report left its
                                purchase to where it could be most cheaply bought.

                            Mr. HEFFREN suggested that the stationery for the House had been
                                already purchased by the State officer charged with that matter,
                                and, because the report seemed to authorize another purchase, he
                                suggested that its consideration might better go over till
                                to-morrow.

                            So it was passed over. 

                        
                        

                        
                             FLAG FOR THE STATE HOUSE.

                            On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, the Doorkeeper was directed to procure a
                                National Flag for the House, and place it on the dome of the House
                                during the session.

                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to amend by requesting the Artillery Company of
                                this city to be present when the flag should be first elevated, and
                                fire a salute of thirty-three guns.

                            Mr. HEFFREN accepted of the modification; and so the order was
                                adopted. 

                        
                        

                        
                            NEWSPAPERS.

                            Mr. ROBBINS submitted the following, which lies over.

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Doorkeeper of this
                                            House place on the desk of each member, two copies of
                                            the Daily State Sentinel, and two
                                            copies of the Daily Journal-one to be
                                            enveloped-for the use of the members. 
                                    
                                
                            

                             The House now took a recess till a quarter before 2 o'clock p.m.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             The SPEAKER announced for the Doorkeeper, that he had been unable to
                                comply with the order yesterday, to procure the acts, laws and
                                journals for the use of members.

                            

                            
                                JOINT CONVENTION.

                                On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, a resolution of invitation to the
                                    Senate to come into joint session instanter in this Hall for
                                    prayers and the Governor's message, was adopted.

                                In due time the Senators and officers of the Senate appeared and
                                    assumed the seats prepared for them, the President of the Senate
                                    presiding.

                                After prayers by the Rev. Gilbert Small, of Indianapolis.

                                The President of the Senate announced the order of the Governors
                                    Message; whereupon-

                                Governor HAMMOND appeared on the floor at the right of the
                                    Clerk's table and delivered his bienniel Message to the General
                                    Assembly as follows: 

                            
                            

                            
                                 GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.

                                Senators and Representatives:

                                For the first time in the history of our State government it
                                    becomes the duty of the acting Executive of the State, to
                                    announce the death of his predecessor in office, before the time
                                    for which he was elected had expired. On the third day of
                                    October, 1860, at St. Paul, Minnesota, Ashbel P. Willard
                                    departed this life. His remains were brought back to our State
                                    by his widow, accompanied by the Governor of Minnesota, the Hon.
                                    Henry M. Rice, one of her Senators in Congress, and by other
                                    citizens. For their kindness in thus attending the remains of
                                    our deceased Governor to the Capital of our State, I desire, for
                                    the people of the State, as well as for myself, to extend to
                                    them our heartfelt thanks. This sad occurrence has devolved upon
                                    me, by virtue of the Constitution of our State, the duties of
                                    the Executive office for the period for which the late Governor
                                    Willard was elected. 

                                 During the time that I have been acting as the Executive of the
                                    State, there has been no question presented to me, save one,
                                    that can by any possibility, affect the pecuniary interests of
                                    Indiana. The semi-annual interest on our public debt for
                                    January, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, was maturing without
                                    the means in the State Treasury to meet it. There was no mode of
                                    liquidating that interest except by borrowing-money. And
                                    believing that the citizens of Indiana desired that her
                                    obligations should be kept, the Auditor and Treasurer of State,
                                    together with myself, taking as our authority an act of the
                                    General Assembly prescribing the duties of Governor, approved
                                    May 27, 1852, made a loan of one hundred and twenty-five
                                    thousand dollars from Messrs. Wmslow, Lanier & Co., of the
                                    city of New York, giving our obligations to pay the same in May
                                    next out of the revenue for the year 1860. It is a matter much
                                    to be regretted that Indiana is in such a condition that she is
                                    compelled to go into the market to borrow money for any purpose
                                    whatever. But it is due to truth to state that this necessity
                                    would not have existed but for the failure of the Senate of
                                    Indiana to pass a revenue bill for the years 1857-8.

                                For the action of the officers of the State Government, and for
                                    the condition of the State Treasury since the last meeting of
                                    the Legislature, I respectfully refer you to the able and full
                                    report of the Auditor of State.

                                The management and prosperity of our benevolent institutions for
                                    the last two years have been most satisfactory, conducted as
                                    they have been by able and efficient officers. Their several
                                    reports are herewith submitted, and I most cheerfully second the
                                    recommendations therein made in reference to legislative
                                    action.

                                The report of the Directors of the State Prison  at Jeffersonville, shows that the
                                    prison is indebted between eight and ten thousand dollars,
                                    without present means of payment. This indebtedness was caused
                                    by the failure of the lessees of the convict labor to pay the
                                    State the amount due for such labor. The most of the money thus
                                    due the State is believed to be amply secured-but the time of
                                    its payment is uncertain. This failure to meet the just demands
                                    of the State by these lessees has been caused by the financial
                                    crisis which has existed for the last" few months, therefore
                                    recommend that the Legislature make an appropriation to meet the
                                    indebtedness of the State in connection with this
                                    institution.

                                The law fixing the qualification of voters, and for the
                                    protection of the ballot-box against fraud is defective. Our
                                    present law does not insure a fair and honest expression of
                                    public sentiment At our elections on very many occasions within
                                    the last few years, in consequence of this defect in the laws,
                                    citizens of one county have, on the day previous to the
                                    election, emigrated to another county expressly to control the
                                    election. 

                                 Our Government rests upon the action and will of the majority of
                                    her citizens, and that being the case, it is important that by
                                    provisions of law we may be assured that public sentiment shall
                                    have a fair expression through the ballot-box and, without this
                                    is secured, we can not reasonably hope that minorities will long
                                    submit. Every citizen of our State, therefore; without regard to
                                    party, is interested in having an efficient and effective law
                                    guarding this mode of expressing public sentiment. I therefore
                                    respectfully recommend the passage of a law inflicting heavy
                                    penalties upon persons voting illegally, and also upon officers
                                    of the election who refuse a legal vote, or who knowingly
                                    receive an illegal one, and fixing the residence in the county
                                    necessary to entitle one to vote, at a period that will make it
                                    unprofitable for bad men to change their residence for voting
                                    purposes alone. Had I the power of fixing the penalty for a
                                    violation of the election law of our State, it never would be
                                    below that of imprisonment in the State Prison. That penalty
                                    would deter bad men, and do much to preserve the purity of the
                                    ballot-box.

                                 The commercial crisis which we are now undergoing, the
                                    depreciated condition of the securities upon which our free bank
                                    circulation is based, and the consequent depreciation of our
                                    currency warn us that in order to promote the financial
                                    interests of our State-to prevent loss arising from the
                                    receiving of paper money, so liable to depreciate while in the
                                    vaults of the Treasury, we should provide by law a sub-treasury
                                    system. The report of the commissioners appointed by the last
                                    Legislature to examine into the debts due the State suggests
                                    many reasons for the passage of this law. During the last ten
                                    years the State has suffered to the amount of thousands of
                                    dollars by the depreciation of the currency while in the hands
                                    of the State and county officers by the bankruptcy of persons
                                    who have become debtors to the State for money borrowed out of
                                    her vaults; by the suspension of banks in which her revenues
                                    were deposited for safety; by the imprudence and improvidence of
                                    her officers, and their neglect or failure to discharge the
                                    duties imposed upon them by law. 

                                And to guard against a recurrence of those losses; to give that
                                    feeling of security to the citizen that the taxes he has paid
                                    are safely kept and prudently disbursed, it has now become
                                    absolutely necessary that a rigid law should be passed embodying
                                    these provisions: First, the collection of ; the debts due the
                                    State in gold and silver; Secondly, the erection of a suitable
                                    building, with secure vaults, for the preservation of the public
                                    money; and, thirdly, placing those officers having control of
                                    the public money under such strict guards that the loaning or
                                    disbursing of any of it, except in the manner provided by law,
                                    should constitute a felony, and render them liable to
                                    imprisonment in the State Prison. 

                                 It is manifestly unjust to require an officer to execute bond to
                                    the State, in a heavy penalty, for the secure keeping of the
                                    revenues of the State, when no provision is made specifying the
                                    kind of money he shall receive, and no suitable place provided
                                    in which it shall be kept. The necessity is great, therefore, of
                                    providing for the erection of a building suitable for the
                                    purpose, with vaults sufficiently strong to guard the public
                                    records and revenues from accident and crime; and remembering
                                    the success that has attended the sub-treasury system in some of
                                    our sister States, and in the Federal Government, I trust that
                                    you will give this matter your early and favorable
                                    attention.

                                At the last May term of the Supreme Court in the case of Igoe vs.
                                    the State of Indiana, the law approved February 10, 1855,
                                    regulating the business of foreign insurance companies, was
                                    declared to be unconstitutional.

                                By reference to the Auditor's books, I have learned that while
                                    the law was enforced, nineteen foreign insurance companies
                                    complied with its provisions by filing their semi-annual
                                    statements, and afterward making necessary deposits of funds or
                                    securities. These deposits were held in trust by the Auditor for
                                    the policy holders of the companies making them. When the law
                                    was declared unconstitutional these deposits were withdrawn, and
                                    we are left without any law regulating this important and
                                    growing branch of commercial business. It is now questionable
                                    whether there is a law authorizing the service of process on the
                                    agents of foreign insurance companies in suits growing out of
                                    contracts made by them in this State. That the magnitude of this
                                    branch of business may be seen, I learn from a gentleman
                                    conversant with insurance in this State, that there is paid
                                    annually by policy holders for insurance n foreign companies not
                                    less than $250,000, and hat the amount covered by insurance in
                                    those companies is about $20,000,000.

                                I, therefore, recommend the passage of a law which will in the
                                    first place give to the policy holder perfect security, and in
                                    the second, foster and encourage bona fide
                                    insurance companies organized by our own citizens under the laws
                                    of the State; without such stringency, however, in its
                                    provisions, as to drive from our State good and solvent foreign
                                    companies, thereby cutting off healthy competition.

                                In the progress of our State in population it has been found
                                    necessary to erect two prisons,which contain about five hundred
                                    convicts, and of 

                            
                            
                        
                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 16, 1861
                        No. 2 
                    

                    
                        
                        

                            that number about fifty are under twenty-one years of age. 

                             The Legislature of 1855, impressed with the necessity of providing a
                                place in which the young delinquents might be confined, where the
                                old and hardened criminal should have no power to lead them further
                                astray, or induct them deeper into crime, provided for the purchase
                                of a piece of ground for the purpose of establishing a House of
                                Refuge. In April last, Governor Willard and the State officers
                                negotiated with General James P. Drake for the purchase of one
                                hundred acres of land, four miles west of the city, for that
                                purpose.

                            The importance of such an institusion can not be overestimated, and
                                it has had the frequent recommendations of my predecessors. In view
                                of the fact that the penitentiary to a young mind is a perfect
                                school for vice; that mere boys are sentenced there in order to
                                avoid an expense to the county for their maintenance in the county
                                jail; and that by contact with old offenders, come out at the end of
                                their term as vicious as their instructors, I can hardly conceive a
                                want more seriously felt than this. In our sister States, these
                                institutions, under the names of "Houses of Reform," "Houses of
                                Correction" "State Reform Schools," &c., have been tried with
                                success. The establishment of a House of Refuge upon the ground
                                selected and purchased for that purpose, is imperatively
                                demanded-demanded alike by good morals and sound policy-and I
                                recommend that prompt and adequate action be taken by you in the
                                matter, and that an appropriation for that purpose be made.

                            By a law, approved March 5th, 1859, the Legislature provided for
                                building a State Prison north of the National Road, and appropriated
                                fifty thousand dollars to carry the provisions of the law into
                                effect. As the Legislature failed to elect three directors, the
                                Governor, by virtue of the law, appointed Dr. B. F. Mullen, John P.
                                Dunn and John W. Blake such directors, who proceeded to locate the
                                prison at Fort Wayne. But for some reason the Governor failed to
                                approve of this location, and it was finally abandoned, and the
                                location subsequently made at Michigan City. Under a contract made
                                by the directors on the part of the State, with Messrs. Talbott and
                                Costigan, for the building of such State Prison, I learn the full
                                amount of the appropriation has been expended. As I have had no
                                connection, either personal or official, with this transaction, I am
                                compelled in this general manner to allude to it. In regard to the
                                location of this prison, the making the contract and the direction
                                of the work, in a matter of the importance of this, it is due to
                                these directors, as well as to the public, that you should cause a
                                full investigation to be made in reference to their action as such
                                directors, and I respectfully recommend that you cause such an
                                investigation to be made. Their report is herewith submitted. 

                            The commission appointed under a joint resolution of the General
                                Assembly at the last session, in relation to the settlement,
                                adjustment and collection of the dues to the State, assembled in
                                this city in July, 1859, to discharge the duties confided to
                                them.

                            By the terms of the joint resolution, the authority of the
                                commissioners seemed to be limited to the detailed statement of the
                                unsettled accounts of all persons heretofore acting as officers or
                                agents of State, and evidences of debt, delivered to them by the
                                Auditor of State. They thoroughly investigated such accounts and
                                claims, and, as far as practicable, have settled the same in
                                pursuance of the terms of the joint resolution. The investigation
                                required, in some instances, much labor, and the examination of a
                                great variety of facts. The settlements so made were, in my opinion,
                                such as the interests of the State rendered necessary, and I have,
                                upon an examination of them, given my full approval thereof in
                                writing. The report of their proceedings is herewith laid before
                                you.

                            In order that the citizens of Indiana should compete favorably with
                                those of her sister States in the full and profitable development of
                                her mineral resources, the last Legislature, following out the wise
                                and enlarged policy demanded by an increase in the number of our
                                inhabitants, and a friendly emulation with our sister States, passed
                                an act requiring a geological reconnoisance of our State preparatory
                                to a more full and extended examination of all her hidden resources.
                                This survey you placed under the fostering care of the able and
                                energetic State Board of Agriculture, who have, in their direction
                                of the survey, fully sustained their well-merited character for
                                discernment in plan and promptness in the execution of work
                                entrusted to their charge. Already with the five thousand dollars
                                placed by you at their disposal, they have had nearly every county
                                partially examined, and are ready, through their geologist, to
                                report upon the most important localities, minerals, soils, etc.,
                                meriting more full and detailed examinations, should the same wise
                                and liberal policy dictate a further prosecution of the work, and
                                furnish the necessary means. 


                            

                            The advantages of a thorough geological survey are manifold. It will
                                show to our citizens and the world that we have more than twenty
                                counties in which a good working coal can be developed to any
                                required amount; coal beds from which oil can be extracted equal in
                                quality, and nearly in quantity to that of Breckinridge county,
                                Kentucky; abundant deposits of iron ore at present worked
                                successfully at a few furnaces, chiefly on the edge of our coal
                                fields; and also on the same coal field margin favorable locations
                                for sinking brine wells and boiling salt; various localities in
                                which extended search may develope lead and other metals-one deposit
                                having recently been developed by analytical research in the
                                laboratory of the State Geologist as rich in the valuable mineral
                                cobalt, extensively used in arts and manufactures-besides, further,
                                the examination and recommendation of many valuable quarries
                                affording materials for building rock and road making, with, others
                                affording grindstones and whetstones of excellent quality, and a
                                good article of lithographic stone; as well, also, as numerous
                                deposits adapted to the manufacture of firebrick, earthenware, etc.
                                Besides all these important and practical results, I would more
                                especially call your attention to the chemical analyses of
                                thirty-three soils selected from different geological formations,
                                designed to show the manner in which that important work should be
                                performed for every county in Indiana.

                            To enumerate all the advantages which our State would secure, would
                                occupy more space than can be appropriately devoted, notwithstanding
                                the vital importance of the subject to our whole community, but it
                                is confidently hoped enough has been here said to direct your
                                attention to a work alike useful and interesting to the farmer, the
                                mechanic, the engineer, and many others, as well as to the general
                                lovers of science.

                            Our lamented man of science, of world-wide reputation and an ornament
                                to our State, our late State Geologist, Dr. David Dale Owen, is lost
                                to science and to us by death, and it will be indeed hard to fill
                                the void thus occasioned. .As, however, he was occupied previous to
                                the call made on him by our State Board, in the surveys of Kentucky
                                and Arkansas, he had not personally taken the field. The work has
                                been hitherto conducted and reported upon by his brother, Dr.
                                Richard Owen, whose report is herewith submitted to you, with the
                                necessary maps, diagrams, tables of analysis, etc., connected
                                therewith.

                            It is now seventy-one years since the present Federal Constitution
                                was adopted, and the United States formed into one nation under its
                                provisions. In that time, under the benign influence of our Federal
                                Union, our advancement in all the elements of national greatness and
                                power, has been unparalleled; and now, in the very zenith of our
                                power, in the morning of our national existence, with all the
                                elements of our national and individual wealth in rapid process of
                                development, we find ourselves on the brink of disunion, and from
                                the high position we have hitherto enjoyed as a power among the
                                nations of the earth, we seem about to fall into the fathomless
                                depths of anarchy and civil war. As one of the members of this great
                                confederacy of States, it is our imperative duty to carefully and
                                honestly consider the causes that have so much disturbed our Federal
                                relations, and if any remedy can be devised stay the progress of
                                disunion, Indiana should be willing to seize upon it at once, and
                                use that remedy to heal the dissentions existing between the
                                Northern and Southern States. The Federal Government, based as it is
                                upon a written constitution, formed of delegated powers from the
                                several States, and possessing no powers that are not federal in
                                their character, necessarily leaves untouched and to be exercised by
                                the several States alone, all local rights of persons or property.
                                Its mission is to regulate our intercourse with foreign nations, and
                                to promote and secure domestic tranquility. Its strength rests with
                                the affections of the people of the several States. It is a
                                government of affection, and not of force, and the dangers that now
                                surround us, arise from the fact that the fraternal bonds that have
                                thus far held us together as a nation, have been growing weaker and
                                weaker until they are about to break asunder. The causes that have
                                produced this alienation of affection between the people of the
                                different sections of the Union, in my judgment, are all traceable
                                to the unwise, and, in many instances, fanatical agitation of the
                                question of domestic slavery.

                            The very form of our Federal Government presupposes a difference in
                                the local and domestic institutions of the several States, and has
                                wisely left each State in the undisturbed right to control its
                                domestic policy. At the time the Federal Constitution was adopted,
                                twelve of the thirteen original States recognized slavery. But the
                                institution was then in its infancy in this country, and had been
                                forced upon the colonies by the mother country. Most of the leading
                                men, both Worth and South, then looked upon its existence as
                                ephemeral, and contemplated a day, at no great distance, when it
                                would wholly disappear from our system. Far-seeing as the founders
                                of this Government were, they did not estimate rightly the future of
                                this institution. Subsequent developments have fixed the line of
                                demarkation between free and slave institutions. This line has been
                                established by self-interest, and not by any principle of religion
                                or philanthropy. The Northern States relieved themselves from the
                                burthen when they disposed of their slave property to their Southern
                                neighbors and abolished the institution, and the Southern States
                                found in the growing demand for the peculiar productions of their
                                climate and soil, a profitable field for the employment of this
                                species of labor, and they have cherished and maintained it, until
                                it has become the basis of their social system as well as the
                                mainspring of their wealth, and its productions now form the staple
                                of the world's commerce.

                            From the time this line was formed a gradual but perceptible change
                                in the tone of sentiment, both North and South, began to manifest
                                itself. In the beginning of the agitation of the slavery question in
                                the free States, the advocates of anti-slavery sentiments found but
                                few sympathizers, and the abolition lecturers met with but an
                                indifferent reception at the hands of the people. The honest
                                instincts of the masses recoiled from the danger with which these
                                sentiments were pregnant, and the fear of the popular mind has been
                                    fearfully verified in the
                                events that are now transpiring around us. In the change of popular
                                sentiment on this subject, the politician and the demagogue have had
                                much to do; but their efforts would have been powerless but for the
                                aid they have received from a much more powerful as well as
                                dangerous class. I refer to that class of political teachers who
                                belong to the ministry, and who claim to speak by authority. In all
                                ages of the world, the ministers and priests of the prevailing
                                religion have exercised a most potent influence over the minds and
                                conduct of men; and in no country more than in our own,
                                notwithstanding our boasted independence. Their power for good or
                                evil is greater than any or all others. They stand as the professed
                                representatives of heaven, in attempting to reclaim a world from
                                sin. Clothed with this sacred robe, as ambassadors from that high
                                court, they claim to pass the judgment of Heaven upon the acts and
                                conduct of their fellow men; and when this high mission is
                                faithfully and conscientiously performed by one capable of
                                understanding the true relation between man and his maker, when the
                                Christian religion is applied to the world as it is, and not as it
                                ought to be, no nobler spectacle can be presented than that feature
                                of our social system that is so strikingly exemplified in the church
                                circle of which its minister and pastor is the center, and no class
                                of men are entitled to higher regard than those ministers who
                                faithfully, and in a spirit of charity, discharge the high duties of
                                such a station. But unfortunately for us as a nation, too many who
                                have thus armed themselves with this double power for good or evil,
                                have turned their attention to political reforms, aud invoke, in
                                their misguided zeal, all the fanatical elements by which they are
                                surrounded. Profoundly ignorant of the political bearings of
                                questions of social and political economy, they claim to judge all
                                such questions from a moral point of view, and to condemn or approve
                                according to their standard of moral right, without any regard to
                                the effect of such a decision upon the well-being of society at
                                large, and without considering the probable result of their
                                pretended moral reform upon the political condition of the country,
                                and their labors have thrown every wave of sectional commotion
                                higher than the last, until the whole country is convulsed by it.
                                The slavery agitation in the free States has naturally produced
                                ultraism at the South, and, as a consequence, the country has become
                                divided into sectional parties, separated by geographical lines.
                                Against these ultraisms, North and South, it is the duty of the
                                conservative element of the whole country to interpose; and this
                                must be done at once, or disunion is inevitable, if it be not
                                already accomplished. The points of difference between the
                                slaveholding and the non-slaveholding States are few, and even those
                                are more imaginary than real. We are as much interested in the
                                development, growth and prosperity of the Southern States as they
                                are themselves, because southern productions have become necessaries
                                of life. On the other hand, they are deeply interested in our
                                prosperity, and suffer from any cause that retards it. The
                                Constitution demands that their fugitive slaves be returned to them.
                                Equity and common honesty require that they shall have full and
                                equal rights in the territories belonging to the General Government.
                                The future condition of the territories, so far as the extension of
                                slavery is concerned, will ultimately be determined by the natural
                                laws that have hitherto controlled that species of property: that
                                is, climate, soil, and productions, so that any question that can
                                now be made upon it must be more an abstraction than a living, vital
                                principle. Why then is it so difficult to adjust all differences
                                between us, and what has caused this fearful political commotion,
                                this panic that has prostrated all the commercial relations of the
                                entire Union? This state of things followed immediately upon the
                                result of our late Presidential election, and it would be difficult,
                                I apprehend, to give as a reason for the present condition of things
                                any other than the result of that contest. The South regarded the
                                election of a Northern candidate by a Northern party as the sequence
                                of anti-slavery agitation, as the solemn verdict of the people in
                                the free States against the South and her institutions, and the
                                instinct of self-preservation is now causing in the South that
                                character of action which threatens to shake the fabric of our
                                Government to its centre. The triumph of the Republican party in the
                                late Presidential contest is the proximate cause of our present
                                political troubles. But the state of popular sentiment necessary to
                                produce these results has been maturing for years, and is the result
                                of slavery agitation. The Southern mind has become impressed with
                                the belief that there is no longer any safety to them or to their
                                property in a union with non-slaveholding States; and that belief
                                does not rest upon any one act of the prevailing party, but in the
                                chain of events that connect together the history of anti-slavery
                                agitation. Underlying, as the institution of slavery does, the whole
                                structure of Southern society, both social and political, and
                                forming to them one great element of their wealth, regarded by them
                                as indispensible to the growth and development of the country, and
                                sensitive to all attacks from every quarter, there can only be
                                permanent peace and tranquility between the two great sections of
                                the country, when we of the free States are ready to stop this
                                discussion of the abstract question of morals connected with this
                                institution, and to look upon it only as a political question, and
                                as it stands connected with our interests as a nation. Compromises
                                of political differences may do much, but that which is most needed
                                at this time, is a restoration of the sentiments of kindly feeling
                                between the North and the South that so strikingly characterized the
                                early history of our republic, and then we may hope that an honest
                                and faithful discharge of all our constitutional obligations toward
                                each other, will result in healing the present breach and insure to
                                us as a nation a brilliant future. It gives me great pleasure to say
                                that Indiana, as a State, has hitherto faithfully kept the bond of
                                union with all her sister States Her record is unstained by any act
                                of bad faith. She has never attempted, directly or indirectly, to
                                evade or avoid any of the requirements of the Federal Constitution,
                                and no man can doubt but if the same could be said of every other
                                State, instead of discord, peace and harmony would reign throughout
                                our borders: Let us then take pride in maintaining the high position
                                we have thus far occupied as a conservative, Union-loving State, and, while we
                                throw our weight into the scale in favor of any practical mode of
                                settling the present trouble, let us also endeavor to aid in that
                                more permanent and lasting settlement that must flow from a
                                restoration of amity and cordiality among all our people, North and
                                South. Then, as you have met in a legislative capacity, you should
                                place Indiana in this controversy where she rightfully belongs, as a
                                conservative, law-abiding and union State. Show to the people of
                                this confederacy that Indiana will maintain the constitutional
                                rights of every State in this Union-that she will extend to the
                                South all rights in the territories belonging to this Government
                                that she would claim for herself-that she will look to the
                                Constitution and the laws to determine rights of property, and not
                                permit any moral questions to interpose to effect that
                                determination, and that all property recognized by the Constitution
                                and laws shall be alike protected. This position, although it may
                                not affect the action of the extreme Southern States, yet it may do
                                much to bring about a convention of the border, free and slave
                                States. And regarding, as I do, these States to be conservative, and
                                in favor of maintaining the Union as it is, it would be well for the
                                peace of this country, if they could meet in convention and consult
                                together in regard to the present unhappy differences existing
                                between the North and the South. They might by their conservative
                                action, induce the extremists of the North and South to pause and
                                reflect upon the consequences which must necessarily result from
                                their fanatical course, and if by their action, this much could be
                                gained, there would then be hope that by a union of the conservative
                                elements of the country, these unhappy differences might be
                                satisfactorily settled and the best government under heaven, saved
                                from the horrors of disunion and civil war. 
                            A. A. HAMMOND

                            The business of the joint session being then concluded, the Senators
                                retired. 
                        
                        

                        
                             MEMORY OF GOVERNOR WILLARD.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the House of
                                            Representatives of the State of Indiana has received
                                            with the deepest sensibility, the announcement of the
                                            death of Governor Ashbel P. Willard.

                                        Resolved, That the officers and members
                                            of this House will wear the usual badge of mourning for
                                            thirty days, as a testimonial of the profound respect
                                            this House entertains for the memory of the
                                            deceased.

                                        Resolved, That the proceedings of this
                                            House in relation to the death of Governor Willard, be
                                            communicated to the family of the deceased by the Clerk. 

                                        Resolved, As a further mark of respect
                                            for the memory of the deceased, that this House do now
                                            adjourn. 
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. HEFFREN said:

                            MR. SPEAKER:- We have just had communicated to us,
                                in an official manner, the death of our late Governor, Ashbel P.
                                Willard. This is the first time in the history of Indiana that her
                                Chief Executive has deceased in office, and the reins of Government
                                have fallen into the hands of him who was elected as the second in
                                command. Indiana is called to mourn the loss of one of her brightest
                                intellects, one of her most genial citizens, and a nation the loss
                                of one of her first statesmen. Sir, I can not pass such an eulogy
                                upon the life, services and character of the deceased as I could
                                wish, but will leave to older and more experienced heads than mine
                                the task, yet I can not suffer the present occasion to pass without
                                offering a tribute of respect to his memory, and while we drop
                                sympathetic tear over his grave, let us not forget to do his life
                                and actions justice. Ashbel Parsons Willard was born October 31st,
                                1820, at Vernon, Oneida county, New York. His father was a highly
                                respectable farmer, and at one time Sheriff of the county. Young
                                Willard early evinced those powers of intellect which made him such
                                fame in after years. He was of a family of five sons and a daughter.
                                His sister and three of his brothers went to their long home before
                                him. The cold grave closed over their remains and shut from his
                                sight his kindred. A brother of our Governor still survives; the
                                last of that family. They have all fallen, I believe, by that
                                insidious and fell destroyer, consumption. One I well knew, and he
                                was possessed of the same noble traits of character as was our
                                lamented Governor and departed friend. 

                            With the early history of the life of our late Governor I am not very
                                familiar, but I understand that by constant and severe application,
                                he almost ruined his health, and perhaps planted the seeds of his
                                own destruction as he pored over his books by the flickering beams
                                of the midnight lamp. In 1842, he started for the far off West,
                                where "the star of empire takes its way," there to embark upon the
                                tempest-tossed, turbulent sea of life. He arrived in Marshall,
                                Michigan, where he remained a time, and from thence into Texas on
                                horseback, and back to Kentucky, and finally settled at New Albany,
                                Indiana, in the year 1845, where by industry, energy and
                                preseverance, he won friends in the ranks of all parties who never
                                deserted him in his later years. 

                            In 1847, he returned East, and on the 31st day of May, of that year,
                                was married to the beautiful and accomplished Caroline C. Cook, of
                                Haddam, Connecticut. The offspring of that marriage who now survive
                                are James H. and Caroline C. Willard. One, Ashbel P. Willard, Jr.,
                                preceded his father to the grave, and the dust of father and son now
                                repose in quiet, side by side in the cemetery of New Albany. All
                                remember the thrill of sadness that ran through our veins as the
                                news was received that Ashbel P. Willard was dead. We felt an
                                involuntary shudder pass over our frames and a chilling sensation
                                through our hearts. We did not think it possible, that he who was
                                onr delight and joy had passed, away from earth to return no more
                                forever.

                            Yet so it was, for on Thursday, October 4, at about five o'clock, his
                                spirit took its flight to the God who gave it. He died at St. Paul,
                                Minnesota, far away from his intimate friends and associates, and I
                                had almost said in a land of strangers but nowhere in the Union was
                                Ashbel P. Willard a stranger, and no place on the soil of the United
                                States, where civilization rules, but he would have been hospitably
                                received. Just before he died he asked that the papers might be read
                                to him, and he manifested great anxiety for the fate of his country,
                                which he believed drifting to destruction. Alas! too well founded
                                were his fears, too true his belief.

                            He was elected to the City Council of New Albany in May, 1849, and in
                                1850, a member of the General
                                Assembly, and held a seat upon this floor. He was one of the working
                                men of this body, and the statute books of the State still bear the
                                impress of his genius and wisdom. In 1852 he was elected Lieutenant
                                Governor of the State by his party, and thereby became ex-officio
                                President of the Senate. Four years ago, when I first entered the
                                General Assemby of this State as a Senator from the county of
                                Washington, Lieutenat Governor Willard was in the chair. Well do I
                                remember the turbulent scenes of that organization. Well do I know
                                the firmness and forbearance exhibited by our friend at that time,
                                when there was danger upon every hand, and how well I remember the
                                heroic courage he exhibited there. I well remember, sir, that, had
                                it not been for his counsel, the floor of that Senate would have
                                been bathed in blood and covered with the bodies of the slain. But
                                his advice prevailed, and peace and concord once more held sway. 

                            In 1856, Willard was nominated as a candidate for Governor. He made
                                one of the most laborious canvasses ever made in Indiana. When we
                                see him elected over so able and accomplished a speaker and
                                gentleman as Oliver P. Morton by so large a majority, when, but two
                                years before the State had been thousands against his party, we may
                                well stand abashed at the power, will and majesty of his intellect.
                                Sir, I have seen him sway the tumultuous crowd to and fro like the
                                top of the tall oak in the storm; I have seen him, as the words of
                                burning eloquence flowed from his lips, hold thousands enchained and
                                enraptured, and when he had done, sigh that their feast was so
                                short. He had all the elements of a popular orator and well he knew
                                how to use them to make them tell upon his admiring hearers. His
                                race was short but brilliant. He rose rapidly to distinction and
                                honor, eminence and usefulness. Like the lightning that flashes
                                athwart the sky, his intellect blazed upon us, but when it went out
                                left us in deeper darkness. In him the youth of the land have a
                                model to follow and an example to guide them onward and upward to
                                fame and honor. Starting poor and alone, he carved his way in a few
                                short years to the highest post of distinction in the gift of the
                                people of his State. But he is cut off in the morn of manhood and
                                vigor of his life. Forty summers had just passed over his head and
                                he was called away from us. Yes, death has entered, as it were, into
                                our circle and stricken down the husband and the father as well as
                                our Chief Executive. The beaming eye so full of fire and
                                intelligence that we were wont to look upon, is closed and
                                lusterless. The hand that greeted us with warm friendship and kind
                                affection is cold and clammy in death. The lips and tongue which
                                poured forth streams of eloquence and enraptured us are silent, and
                                that countenance upon which beamed, intelligence and wisdom,
                                urbanity and generosity, has lost its teeling. The wife has lost a
                                kind and doting husband, the children an affectionate and loving
                                parent, the State a noble Executive, the people a kind hearted and
                                noble friend. 

                            But he is gone. His body has been borne to the cold and silent grave
                                by his countrymen, and now reposes in solemn grandeur upon the banks
                                of our own Ohio, whose waters, taking their rise in Pennsylvania and
                                Virginia, mingle and intermix, and are dashed together over the
                                falls of the Ohio, near where his bones now rest in quiet and
                                repose. So may the people of that country which he so loved, mingle
                                and commingle together, until time shall be no more. 

                            And now, when his form has passed from our sight-when his body has
                                been buried beneath the cold clods of the earth, and the dark and
                                silent grave has received it-let us honor his memory and his
                                services. Cut off in the zenith of his fame and glory, it is a
                                warning to us all; and when the grass shall grow green over his
                                grave-tall and rank and high-and be swayed to and fro by the night
                                winds and breezes of heaven; when the nightingale shall pour forth
                                her plaintive song near his last resting place-let us do his memory
                                justice, and preserve his example in our hearts, so that when we are
                                called from labor to refreshment, we may be ready to lay off these
                                mortal habiliments and be raised and exalted to the home of the
                                blest. 

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG said:

                            MR. SPEAKER: Coming as I do from the city and
                                county which was once the loved home of Ashbel P. Willard, and from
                                the banks of the beautiful river where his ashes now repose, I can
                                not refrain from adding a few words to the expressions of sympathy
                                and regard which have been enunciated by the gentleman who preceded
                                me. It is, indeed, eminently proper that this House should give its
                                unanimous assent to the resolutions of condolence which have just
                                been presented.

                            At a time, sir, when the State of Indiana was convulsed with the
                                strife of politicians, and when men were grasping after worldly
                                honors and emoluments, Ashbel P. Willard, the Governor of the proud
                                Commonwealth of Indiana, was stricken down by the Destroying Angel.
                                At any time such a calamity would have been greatly deplored and
                                widely felt; but how striking and peculiarly impressive did the
                                circumstances make it. The people of Indiana, casting aside all
                                party differences, and forgetting the excitement of popular strife,
                                with one heart and one voice unite in paying the last tribute of
                                respect to their departed and honored Chief. Imitating their
                                example, let us, the representatives of the people, turn aside for a
                                moment from the pressing cares and anxieties of State and National
                                affairs, and render our homage to the memory of him who was so
                                lately the chosen leader of our State.

                            It was never my fortune to meet Governor Willard on any public arena;
                                to notice the grasp of his mind or the powers of his great
                                intellect. I knew him rather as a private citizen and as a friend.
                                In all my intercourse with him I found him to be the soul of honor,
                                kind, faithful and generous to a fault. His public acts and
                                political career are known to all, and the record of his life has
                                bee given to the world by abler and wiser men. As for his name and
                                deeds are they not enrolled in your capitol? 

                            How opportune was his death! Patriotic always, and with a heart
                                throbbing with love for the union of the States, Providence
                                vouchsafed to take him from us ere the black storm of civil war
                                threatened to burst in awful desolation over our beloved America. He
                                will never see the troops of a sister State marching with hostile
                                    banners against brethren and
                                friends, and he has been spared the pain of witnessing the bitter
                                strife that is now precipitating us into a fratricidal war.

                            
                                
                                    "Felix non solum claritate vita sed etiam opportunitate
                                        mortis."
                                
                            

                            The resolutions were adopted unanimously, and accordingly the House
                                adjourned till tomorrow morning, 9 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            SATURDAY, January 12,1861.
                        


                        Mr. CRAVEN presented a petition from certain citizens of Indiana, praying
                            for the passage of a law making it obligatory for all persons committed
                            to jail for non-payment of fine, to pay it by hard work ; which was read
                            and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.A
                            resolution was adopted, providing that when the Senate adjourn, it be
                            till Monday morning at 9 o'clock.

                        
                            THE STATE PRINTING.
                            Mr. JOHNSON offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                instructing the Committee on Printing to enquire
                                into the expediency of letting the State Printing to the lowest
                                responsible bidder.
                        
                        

                        
                            THE MILITIA.
                            Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting the
                                    Committee on Military Affairs to enquire into
                                the expediency of re-organizing the militia of the State ; and of
                                repealing the laws now in force for that purpose.

                        
                        
                        
                             BEER, WINE AND CIDER.
                            Mr. HULL offered a resolution, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance, expressing it as the
                                opinion of this Legislature that the present Temperance laws shall
                                be so amended as that the restrictions shall not operate upon lager
                                beer, native wines or cider. 

                        
                        

                        
                             GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.

                             Mr. O'BRIEN offered a resolution ordering the printing of 5,000
                                copies of the Governor's Message, 2,000 of the same to be in the
                                German language.

                            Mr. WAGNER moved its reference to the Committee on
                                    Printing. 

                            Mr. SLACK thought we should act upon this resolution now ; and was of
                                opinion that the number proposed to be printed was too small by
                                half.

                            Mr. WAGNER. We will have another Message soon ; and let them both be
                                printed at once, and go to the country together.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON made an ineffectual motion to lay on the table the
                                motion for a reference.

                            The motion to refer was then agreed to by yeas 25, nays 20. 
                        
                        

                        
                             POSTAGE STAMPS FOR OFFICERS.

                            Mr. ANTHONY offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the doorkeeper to procure postage stamps for the Principal
                                and Assistant Secretary, and first and second Doorkeeper, when
                                ordered for members. 

                        
                        


                        
                            FEDEEAL RELATIONS.

                            Mr. MURRAY offered the following joint resolution, (S. 2,) which was
                                referred under the rule to the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        A JOINT RESOLUTION ON THE STATE OF
                                            THE UNION.

                                        WHEREAS, The State of South Carolina
                                            has placed herself in treasonable hostility to the
                                            General Government, by seizing the U. S. Post Office,
                                            Custom House, Fortifications and moneys, and firing into
                                            a Government vessel conveying troops and provisions to
                                            one of the United States forts in Charleston harbor;
                                            and

                                        WHEREAS, The intelligence of similar
                                            hostile acts upon the property of the U. States
                                            Government in Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana, and the
                                            treasonable avowals of Senators and Representatives of
                                            those States in Congress; and

                                        WHEREAS, This Government, having been
                                            formed by the people of the several States, through
                                            their lawfully constituted Representatives, for the
                                            purpose of establishing Justice and perpetuating
                                            Liberty; and

                                        WHEREAS, The Constitution of the
                                            United States, which the Senators and Representatives of
                                            the people of Indiana have solemnly sworn to support, is
                                            the only guarantee of Justice, and the only charter of
                                            Liberty-Therefore

                                        Be it Resolved by the Senate and House of
                                                Representatives of the State of Indiana, That a
                                            full sense of the value of this Government to ourselves
                                            and our posterity-to liberty loving men in all the world
                                            and of the great and increasing obligations we are under
                                            to our forefathers out of whose sacrifices it was
                                            established-impel us to make every effort in its behalf
                                            by sustaining the present and incoming administration in
                                            enforcing the laws and maintaining the Union.

                                        Resolved, That the lawful, peaceful and
                                            constitutional election of a President of the United
                                            States furnishes no cause whatever of secession of any
                                            State from, or dissolution of this Union; and that all
                                            States parties or individuals that act on a different
                                            hypothesis, put themselves in antagonism to the General
                                            Government, and upon committing any overt act, become
                                            traitors to the government.

                                        Resolved, That the patriotic stand
                                            which the President has taken to assert the supremacy of
                                            the Federal authority over the insurgent State of South
                                            Carolina, meets with our approval; and in any needful
                                            emergency, we tender him, through the Governor of the
                                            State, all needful aid in men and money to effect that
                                            object.

                                        Resolved, That the Governor be
                                            requested to forward a copy of these resolutions to the
                                            President of the United States, to each of our Senators
                                            and Representatives in Congress, and to the Governors of
                                            the several States. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced, read and severally passed to the
                                second reading. without objection:

                            By Mr. CONLEY: A bill [S. 6] for the immediate repeal of an act
                                entitled "an act to authorize the formation of new counties and to
                                change county boundaries," approved March 7 1857,

                            By Mr. Mr. NEWCOMB: A bill [S. 7.] supplementary to an act concerning
                                real property and the alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852.

                            [The Revised code of 1852 provides that a married woman over eighteen
                                and under twenty-one, may join with her husband in conveying his
                                land; if the father, or if there be no father, the mother of the
                                wife shall give consent, &c. This bill provides that when there
                                is neither father nor mother living, such conveyance may be made, if
                                the common pleas judge of the district where the grantors reside
                                shall endorse his approval thereon, and being satisfied that it
                                would prejudice the interests of the husband and wife to be prevented from making such conveyance.
                                That the judge have power to hear evidence as to the propriety or
                                necessity of making such conveyance, and that he be paid by the
                                grantors, the same fees that are allowed to justices of the peace
                                for similar services.] 

                             By Mr. LINE: A bill [S. 8,] to amend the act the to regulate and
                                license the sale of spirituous, vinous, malt and other intoxicating
                                liquors, to prohibit the adulteration of liquors," c., approved
                                March 5, 1859; so as to provide that any person may sell pure,
                                unadulterated beer and native wine or cider, without license.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: A bill [S. 9,] to amend sec. 9 of an act providing
                                for the election of justices of the pe'ace, approved June 9, 1852;
                                so that their jurisdiction, unless otherwise provided for by law,
                                shall be limited to the county in which they reside.

                            By Mr. LOMAX: A bill [S. 10,] to amend sec. 102 of an act to provide
                                for a general system of common schools, approved March 5, 1855; so
                                as to provide for the appointment of school directors where the
                                inhabitants fail to elect; and to amend sec. 149, so as to enable
                                school teachers to procure certificates for orthography, reading,
                                writing and arithmetic, only where those3; branches are the only
                                branches required to be taught.

                            By Mr. CONNER: A bill [S. 11,] to repeal so much of sec. 151 of the
                                act providing for the valuation and assessment of real and personal,
                                property, as gives the purchaser of land gold for delinquent taxes
                                possession of the premises before the deed is executed.

                            By Mr. CRAVEN : A bill [S. 12,] to amend sec. 16 of an act touching
                                the relation of guardians and wards, approved June 9, 1852; so as to
                                require that the appointment of appraisers to appraise real estate
                                shall be from the counties in which the land is situate.

                            By Mr. LOMAX: A bill [S. 13,] to amend sec. 5 of an act to provide
                                for the more uniform mode of doing township business, &c.,
                                approved February 18, 1859, so that the township trustee shall hold
                                his office for two years, and until his successor is elected and
                                qualified.

                            By Mr. CARNAHAN: A bill [S. 14,] to amend sec. 48 of an act providing
                                for the settlement of decedant's estates, so that the executor may
                                postpone the sale till the first term of the Common Pleas Court; no
                                notice of the filing of the petition shall be required; the court
                                may also postpone the sale from time to time, and require additional
                                security for the safety of the estate;this act to apply to persons
                                dying before as well as after its passage. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

                            Was received, inviting the Senate to meet in the Representatives'
                                Hall at 2 o'clock next Monday afternoon, to compare the election
                                returns for Governor and Lt. Governor.

                            The invitation was subsequently accepted by the Senate.

                        
                        

                        
                            SENATE BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.

                             The following bills introduced yesterday were read the second time
                                and severally referred, as follows:

                            Mr. Slack's [S. 2] for the abolishment of courts of conciliation; to
                                the Committee on the Organization of Courts.

                            Mr. Cobb's [S. 8] to enable justices to commit defendants in case of
                                conviction upon failure to pay costs; to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                             Mr. March's [S. 4] abolishing the office of State Printer; to the
                                    Committee on Printing.

                            Mr. Newcomb's [S. 5] providing that the opposite party may offer
                                himself as a witness in his own behalf, whenever the assignor is
                                used as a, witness by the assignee, being read-

                            Mr. MELLETT moved to amend by striking out all of section 1 after the
                                words " be amended so as to read as follows," and insert the
                                following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        " No person offered as a witness shall be excluded from
                                            giving evidence, either in person or by deposition, in
                                            any civil action or proceeding, by reason of incapacity
                                            from crime or interest in the event of the same as a
                                            party thereto, or otherwise ; Provided
                                            that no party to a suit shall be allowed to testify when
                                            the adverse party is the executor or administrator of a
                                            deceased person, when the facts to be proved transpired
                                            before the death of the deceased person, nor shall he
                                            testify unless he give reasonable notice of his
                                            intention to do so to the adverse party, his agent or
                                            attorney."
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. CONNER. In this bill there is a question involved which has been
                                very perplexing to the courts for a long time. I move its reference
                                to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                            The motion was agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            IN MEMORY OF GOVERNOR WILLARD.

                            Mr. SLACK submitted the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Senate of the State
                                            of Indiana has received with the deepest sensibility the
                                            announcement of the death of Governor Ashbel P.
                                            Willard.

                                        Resolved, That the officers and members
                                            of the Senate will wear the usual badge of mourning for
                                            thirty days, as a testimony of the profound respect the
                                            Senate entertains for the memory of the deceased.

                                        Resolved, That the proceedings of the
                                            Senate in relation to the death of Governor Willard be
                                            communicated to the family of the deceased by the
                                            Secretary.

                                        Resolved, As a further mark of respect
                                            for the memory of the deceased, that the Senate do now
                                            adjourn.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. SLACK. Mr, President: In presenting these resolutions to the
                                Senate, I do not propose to deliver a eulogy upon the life,
                                character and public services of our late distinguished Executive,
                                but I cannot resist this opportunity of testifying to his many
                                virtues, and his most generous impulses.

                            In early youth he was thrown upon his own resources; and when we view
                                the fact that he began life in a remote land, far from his native
                                home, amidst entire strangers, with no other capital than that
                                intellect which a genorous Maker had given him, and with a fixed and
                                unalterable determination to do his duty, and view the high and
                                lofty position to which he attained, the commanding influence he
                                    exerted in the councils of
                                his country, we cannot do otherwise than cherish his memory, and
                                view with respect and admiration the chaplets which encircled his
                                brow. 

                            As old age creeps upon the distinguished and admired statesman, whose
                                many acts of self-sacrificing patriotism have endeared him in the
                                hearts and affections of his countrymen, we are naturally taught, as
                                time rolls round, that he must soon part from us, and leave for a
                                higher and more happy sphere; then the keen pang of separation is
                                greatly mellowed by the reflection that the change is what we
                                anticipated, and we are prepared for the loss. But, Mr. President,
                                when inexorable death knocks at our doors, and obtains admission,
                                and selects for its victim one so young, one so gifted, one so
                                distinguished, one who had so string a hold upon the affections of a
                                generous people, and one too, whose distinction had not yet reached
                                its meridian height, with what redoubled force does the blow come,
                                how much keener the pang, how much more crushing the affliction.

                            But, Mr. President, the immutable fiat was issued, and we must bow to
                                the will of Him "who doeth all things well."

                            To the family and friends of our lamented Chief Executive, I may be
                                permitted to express the consoling thought that those who knew him
                                best, appreciated him most; his kind and generous nature knew no
                                harbor for jealousy, envy or malice, and may we not, with propriety,
                                entertain the thought that their and our loss is his gain?

                            Mr. WAGNER. Mr. President-I also wish to second the resolutions of
                                the Senator from Huntington. It has been my fortune during the past
                                two years, as President of the State Board of Agriculture, to have
                                much to do with the lamented Governor. I have always found him one
                                of the kindest of gentlemen; always ready and willing to advance the
                                interests of the State, and particularly in the prosecution of the
                                geological survey of the State, affording every facility at his
                                command for that purpose. Whatever may be said of Governor Willard
                                as a partisan, all will agree that he was a warm-hearted man, always
                                ready and willing to oblige a friend, even to his own inconvenience;
                                and I most heartily join in this tribute of respect to our late
                                Governor. 

                            Mr. RAY said: Mr. President-I can not feel excused from adding my
                                tribute to this testimonial of the Senate to the late Governor
                                Willard, although I am not prepared with those biographical data
                                which would render a review of the life and services of the
                                deceased, of interest to the Senate. It is in vain, Mr. President,
                                to seek by resolutions of the Senate to supply the void created in
                                the councils of the State, or in the family circle by his death. His
                                career was brilliant, and he left the stage of action young-he was
                                born with great talent, and grasped the laurel of success early in
                                life-fortune attended his efforts, and his political life was
                                uninterrupted by any of those reverses which too often attend
                                political aspirations. Many of the Senators knew him-earlier and
                                longer than I, and are better prepared to speak of his acts and
                                qualities than I am; but I may be permitted to say of the deceased,
                                that as a lawyer and advocate great excellence attended his early
                                efforts-establishing for himself an enviable reputation for
                                ingenuity, eloquence and fidelity to clients. In the Forum of
                                debate, whether the subject was law, or politics, whether it
                                required logic, pathos or invective, he came up to the highest
                                standard of popular demand. Asa politician, he was a partisan in the
                                most emphatic and exalted sense of that term-he was,however,liberal
                                and courteous to political adversaries in official and social
                                intercourse, while in political debate invective was his ready
                                weapon, and mercy was reserved for his friends. As a political
                                speaker his forte was to concentrate and generalize the current,
                                floating thoughts and sentiments of the people, which in time
                                rendered him the idol of his party in Indiana, and commanded for him
                                a National reputation for eloquence, tact and statesmanship. 

                             As a political leader his characteristic traits were intrepidity of
                                soul, native sagacity, iron will and alacrity in serving his
                                cause-he readily seized and tenaciously maintained the strong
                                positions of a controversy, and with dexterity and power assailed
                                the weak ones. As Governor, in the discharge of his official duty he
                                was the constant victim of the struggling demands of stern duty on
                                the one hand, and appeals to the sympathies of a lenient heart on
                                the other. A good judge of men and measures, he rarely made a
                                political mistake, and when attacked, was always equal to the
                                occasion.

                            With a tongue of inspiration, and a heart full of patriotism and the
                                love of his race, no orator of this country could so electrify the
                                masses of the people by the flashes and torrents of a sweeping
                                eloquence ; and in times of high political excitement his gallant
                                bearing and clarion tones never left it doubtful where his party
                                stood. As a friend he was devoted and unselfish, frank and warm in
                                his attachments, his bosom never harbored envy, jealousy, duplicity
                                or revenge. He commenced his career in the valley of humble
                                life-poor, but proud and ambitious, he leaped from crag to crag,
                                from chasm to chasm, scaled hill after hill, until he reached the
                                mountain top. He never forgot the path that he traveled, nor the
                                friends that smiled on his early struggles. But death, that sets his
                                seal alike on individuals and nations, upon kingdoms and crowns,
                                upon the creations of man and the forms of nature, laid his cold
                                hands upon him, and he was clay. He has passed from this living
                                generation of men, and from the perilous crisis that threatens the
                                destruction of the Union he loved so well. 

                            Mr. ANTHONY. Mr. President, I feel that there is great propriety in
                                my saying something responsive to the resolution just offered.

                            My early and intimate aquaintance with Governor Willard, as he moved
                                in the social and political relations of life, enables me to add my
                                tribute, in proof of the many qualities ot head and heart, which so
                                endeared him to his numerous friends.

                            When yet a school boy, I well remember the hour he first placed his
                                foot upon Indiana  soil, in the
                                place of my residence, in the district I now have the honor to
                                represent upon this floor. He was then a young and unpretending man,
                                poor and friendless, wandering from his native hearth-stone in
                                search of both health and fortune.

                            Bold and self-reliant, and with a will which nothing could
                                intimidate, he settled in the midst of men great in wealth, eminent
                                in the profession of which he was a member, and prominent and
                                learned in the politics of the State and nation, but in the
                                brilliant charge of his genius, sustained by his earnest and
                                persistent energy, wealth lost its precedence, learning its
                                prestige, and political eminence its distinction, and A. P. Willard
                                rapidly seized upon social and professional prominence, and in
                                politics became the idol and leader of his party.

                            In the year 1850, Mr. Willard was elected by an unprecedented
                                majority, to represent in the other end of this Capitol the same
                                county I represent here, and as such representative he was able and
                                industrious, and by his power and excellence as a forensic debater,
                                out-ranked his cotemporaries, and returned to his home with his
                                record endorsed by his party friends. From that time forward, he did
                                not tarry a moment in the race for political distinction; he swept
                                past his plodding rivals one by one, until his fame as a politician
                                culminated in the victory he won in the able and hard-fought contest
                                of 1856. which victory placed him at the early age of thirty-five in
                                the position of Chief Executive of the State of Indiana, the office
                                he held at the time of his death. As a partizan, Governor Willard
                                was uncompromising; he never asked nor gave a point, but as a man he
                                was noble, frank and generous ; in the relations of friendship he
                                was never charged with infidelity, and in his domestic ties
                                exhibited the noblest traits of the human race.

                            Mr. LINE: Before putting these resolutions to a vote of the Senate, I
                                will say that I only knew Gov. Willard as a politician. These
                                resolutions have been presented unexpectedly to those Senators who
                                knew Governor Willard, and I will take this occasion to move that
                                those Senators who have addressed us on the subject, be requested to
                                write out their remarks, that they may be published.

                            Mr. RAY and Mr. SHIELDS seconded the resolutions, each in a short
                                eulogy upon the life and character of the deceased.

                            Mr. DEHART sends the following to the Reporter's desk:

                             Mr. President: Although I never enjoyed the acquaintance of our
                                deceased Governor, yet his name and actions as a citizen, orator and
                                politician, are familiar. Zealous as a leader, eloquent as an
                                orator, kind, warm and generous as a friend, he has left a monument
                                in the affections of the people of Indiana.

                            The resolutions were adopted unanimously.

                            The Senate adjourned till Monday morning 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            SATURDAY, January 12, 1861.
                        

                         The House met at 9 o'clock.

                        
                            THE GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the message of His Excellency
                                Governor Hammond.

                            Mr. McLEAN moved that it lie on, the table, and that 500 copies be
                                printed for the use of members of the House.

                            Mr. HEFFREN suggested to include the accompanying documents; which
                                was accepted, and so the resolution was agreed to.

                            On motion of Mr. BRUCKER, it was ordered that 200 copies of the
                                Message be printed in the German language.

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, asked and obtained leave to withdraw the
                                report of the Committee on Stationery.

                        
                        

                        
                            NEWSPAPERS.

                            The SPEAKER stated that in the order of unfinished business was the
                                consideration of Mr. Robbins' resolution to order newspapers.

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to refer it to a select committee of five.

                            Mr. ROBBINS preferred to adopt the resolution without the
                                intervention of a committee, that members might have the papers
                                immediately.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The very reason he moved to refer it to a committee was
                                that, Monday they will have their report ready for action, and it
                                may be adopted at once. Without a committee, two or three days were
                                commonly spent in talking over the matter, and it usually wound up
                                in taking all the newspapers. He would also add o his motion, that
                                the committee inquire as to the terms on which the newspapers will
                                be delivered. 

                        
                        

                        
                            NORTHERN PENITENTIARY.

                            The SPEAKER announced the select Committee on the Northern
                                    Penitentiary, namely, Messrs. Jenkinson, Bingham,
                                Heffren, Burgess, Breck, McLean and Haworthseven instead of five,by
                                request of Mr. Jenkinson.
                        
                        

                        

                             DOCUMENTS.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                Doorkeeper to obtain from the Secretary of State all the Documents
                                published by law for general distribution, and lay the pro rata share of each member on the desk of the same. 

                        
                        

                        
                             JOINT CONVENTION FOR THE GOVERNOR'S
                                INAUGURATION.
                            Mr. VEATCH submitted a resolution, which was adopted, inviting the
                                Senate into joint convention with the House of Representatives in
                                this Hall, next Monday at 2 o'clock p. m., far the purpose of
                                comparing the election returns of Governor and Lieut. Governor. 
                        
                        

                        
                             POSTAGE.
                            Mr. FRAZIER submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                Doorkeeper to cause three
                                dollars worth of postage stamps to be placed in the possession of
                                each member of this House.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS made an ineffectual motion to take up the Governor's
                                Message, to enable him to move to refer its consideration to a
                                    committee of the Whole House next Tuesday, at
                                2 o'clock P. M.
                        
                        

                        
                            BILLS INTRODUCED.

                            By Mr. CAMERON. (H. R. 3,) To amend the 15th section of the act of
                                1859 to fix the times of holding the Common Pleas Courts in the
                                several counties of this State, &c., so as to provide for the
                                holding of the Common Pleas Court in the county of Newton:

                            By Mr. McLEAN. (H. R. 4,) To amend sections 70 and 91 of the act to
                                provide for the valuation and assessment of real and personal
                                property in the State of Indiana; for the election of township
                                assessors, and prescribing the duties of assessors, appraisers of
                                real property, collectors, county treasurers and auditors, and the
                                Treasurer and Auditor of State; approved June 21, 1852:

                            By Mr. JENKINSON. (II. R, 5,) To repeal the power of the Board of
                                County Commissioners in the assessment and collection of taxes:

                            By Mr. ROBERTS. (H. R. 6.) To amend section 1 of the act to provide
                                for the election of Electors for President and Vice President of the
                                United States. Approved May 20, 1852:

                            By Mr. WOODHULL. (H. R. 7,) To amend the 13th section of the act
                                defining misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment therefor; approved
                                June 14, 1852:

                            By Mr. NEBEKER. (H. R. 8,) To provide for the allowance of the clerks
                                of the Circuit and Common Pleas Courts, and the Sheriffs of the
                                several counties for extra services, and repeal all laws
                                inconsistent therewith:

                            By Mr. EDSON. (H. R. 9,) To amend section 148 of the act providing
                                for the settlement of decedents' estates, prescribing the rights,
                                liabilities and duties of officers and other persons connected with
                                the management thereof, and the heirs thereto. &c.; approved
                                June 17, 1852:
                            Which were severally read the first time, and ordered to the second
                                reading. 

                        
                        

                        
                             STATE OF THE UNION.

                            Mr. JENKINSON submitted the following, (Joint Resolution No. 2,) and
                                asked for its consideration:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, The steamer Star of the West,
                                            bearing the Stars and stripes of our common country, and
                                            freighted with a reinforcement cf men and supplies for
                                            the relief of the gallant Anderson, at Fort Sumter, when
                                            in the peaceful pursuit of her object, has been fired
                                            into by a mob of lawless men at Morris Island, in the
                                            State of South Carolina.

                                        SEC. 1. Be it resolved by
                                                the General Assembly of the State of Indiana,
                                            That our Senators in Congress be instructed, and our
                                            Representatives be requested to vote such supplies, both
                                            of men and money, and give the Executive Department of
                                            the General Government full power to arrest and punish
                                            the traitors that, with fratricidal hand, have dared to
                                            strike the flag of our glorious Union. 

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             The SPEAKER decided that the joint resolution must go to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. JENKINSON said he desired our members of Congress to know how the
                                State of Indiana stands on this question; that they should know it
                                at once; that the first telegraphie dispatches hence should show
                                that Indiana was all right. The man that strikes our flag should be
                                struck himself. This resolution did not belong to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen. It was not a
                                resolution for pacification-not a measure of peace, but of
                                self-preservation and self-defence.

                            Mr. PROSSER would suggest to the gentle man whether it would not be
                                better that his joint resolution lie over till the
                                    Committee of Thirteen shall report. As it was
                                desirable get along peacefully in this matter, the better plan would
                                be not to strike first. The gentleman's view were not in accordance
                                with the good book. He suported the decision of the Chair.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. With all due respect for the gentleman from Brown, I
                                call him to order. The matter is to be referred without debate.

                            Mr. PROSSER was through, but had been in order on the point taken by
                                the Speaker.

                            Mr. JENKINSON was not a Christian as he could wish to be; felt that
                                if a man struck him, he must strike back; must resent an insult
                                wherever given, even if it were in the Court of Heaven itself. All
                                speech and language were futile, idle, in such a case as this. Let
                                our action show to the world that we stand by the flag of our
                                country, and that the man who strikes at it does so at his peril.
                                His sympathies were with his friends at the South, but not with
                                those who wanted to re-open the slave trade, and to make direct
                                trade with Europe.

                            Mr. HEFFREN did not think this a measure of peace. It was to get up a
                                fight, and he did not want to fight. He had enough of that in the
                                other Hall the last session. [Laughter.]

                            Mr. JENKINSON. The act he would punish was not war; it was the act of
                                a mob.

                            The SPEAKER. The Chair decides that the matter goes to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. Then it should go there without debate. 
                        
                        

                        
                             GAVIN AND HORD'S STATUTES.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Understanding the Chair yesterday to state that the
                                Doorkeeper had not been able to supply the House with the Revised
                                Statutes, he submitted a resolution, which was adopted, for a
                                committee of five to confer with Gavin and Hord, and ascertain upon
                                what terms the first volume of their statutes can be furnished.

                        
                        

                        
                            BILLS INTRODUCED.

                            By Mr. KENDRICK. [H. R. 10.] Authorizing county libraries to loan
                                certain funds, and regulating the same:

                            By Mr. WILLIAMS. (H. R. ll.] Providing for rebuilding and repairing
                                division fences along the lines of railroads: 

                            

                            By Mr. HOLCOMB. [H. R. 12.] To amend the third section of the act to
                                establish the Court of Common Pleas, defining its jurisdiction and
                                providing for the compensation of the judges thereof:

                            By Mr. Speaker ALLEN, (Mr. Sherman in the Chair.) [H. R. 13.] Making
                                provision for the refunding of license money illegally collected
                                under the act approved June 15. 1852:

                            By Mr. PACKARD. [H. R. 14.] To amend section 1 of the act concerning
                                interest on money :

                             By Mr. HOPKINS.[H. R.15.] To amend section two of the act concerning
                                the organization of voluntary associations, and repealing former
                                laws in reference thereto; approved February 12, 1855:

                            By Mr. BLACK. [H.R. 16.] To provide for refunding saline funds to
                                persons who have erroneously paid the same to the treasurer of such
                                funds :

                            Which were severally read the first time, and passed to the second
                                reading.
                        
                        

                        
                             STATIONERY, ETC.

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, from the select Committee on
                                    Stationery, returned their report, setting forth that
                                they had appointed James A. Bell, of Vermillion county, clerk of the
                                stationery room, with instruction to procure and dispense. 2. He is
                                to open an account with each member and clerk of the House, and
                                charge him with his orders. 3. He shall not furnish stationery,
                                &c., to any but members and clerk. 4. He is to make a full
                                report at the end of the session.

                            On motion by Mr. PROSSER, the report was concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                             GERMAN NEWSPAPERS.
                            Mr. SHERMAN submitted an order that the Doorkeeper subscribe for two
                                German newspapers, to he enveloped and placed on the desk of each
                                member.

                            On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, it was referred to the Select
                                    Committee on Newspapers.

                            The SPEAKER announced the Select Committee on
                                    Newspapers, viz : Messrs. Robbins, Sherman, Trier and
                                Fraley; and

                            The Committee to procure Gavin & Hord's Statutes, viz : Messrs.
                                Heffren, Burgess, Jenkinson, Grover and Prosser.

                            On motion by Mr. SHERMAN, it was ordered that when the House
                                adjourns, it shall be till Monday.[A message from the Senate by Mr.
                                Secretary Tyner, announced that that body had accepted the
                                invitation for the joint convention of Inauguration next Monday, at
                                2 o'clock.]

                            On motion by Mr. WILSON, it was ordered that the stated hours for the
                                meeting of this House shall be 9 o'clock A. M., and 2 o'clock P.
                                M.

                            The House then adjourned.
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                         IN SENATE.

                        
                            MONDAY, January 14,1861.
                        

                        Mr. TARKINGTON presented a resolution adopted by a large meeting of his
                            constituents, instructing their Senator and Representative in the State
                            Legislature, if the present national difficulties be not settled before
                            the adjournment of the General Assembly, to use their utmost endeavors
                            to procure the passage of a law suspending the collection of debts by
                            sale of property for one year; which was read and referred to the
                                Committee on Finance.

                        Mr. HULL presented a petition from certain citizens of Ripley and
                            Dearborn counties, praying that the road law be so amended as to give
                            county commissioners power to decide upon the width of roads in their
                            localities ; which was read and referred to the Committee on
                                Roads.


                        
                            STATE DEBT AND NORTHERN STATE PRISON.

                            Mr. JONES offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                authorizing the printing of 200 copies each of the Report of the
                                Directors of the Northern State Prison, and of the Commissioners
                                appointed at the last session to examine and adjust the suspended
                                debt of the State.

                        
                        

                        
                            ASSISTANCE TO AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES.

                            Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture, enquiring into the
                                expediency of that Committee reporting a law conferring power upon
                                county boards to assist Agricultural Societies in purchasing Fair
                                Grounds. 
                        
                        

                        
                             STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE SENATE.

                            Mr. ANTHONY offered the following, which was adopted:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the following be the
                                            Standing Committees for the Senate during the present
                                            session:

                                        

                                            
                                                  Committee on Judiciary
                                                -Messrs. March, Conner, Newcomb, Cravens,
                                                Miller, Mellett, Claypool, De Hart, Slack, Ray,
                                                Cobb, Wolf and Studabaker.

                                            
                                                  Committee on Finance
                                                -Messrs, Wagner, Cravens, Steele, Blair,
                                                Tarkington, Shoemaker and Hamilton. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Organization of
                                                  Courts
                                                -Messrs. Conner, De Hart, Claypool, Dickinson,
                                                Bay, Wolf and Cobb. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Elections
                                                -Messrs. White, Grubbs, Berry, Turner, Landers,
                                                Shoulders and Line. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Federal Relations
                                                -Messrs. Cravens, Wagner, Newcomb, March,
                                                Beeson, Steele, Kay, Wolf, Tarkington and Line. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Education
                                                -Messrs. Miller, Anthony, Craven, Stone, Blair,
                                                Shoemaker, Tarkington, Odell and Line. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Corporations
                                                -Messrs. Craven, Beeson, Conner, White,
                                                Carnahan, Johnson and Shields. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Military Affairs
                                                -Messrs. Murray, Steele, Wagner, Cravens,
                                                Carnahan, Shoulders and Lomax. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Roads
                                                -Messrs. Hull, Beeson, Stone, Robinson,
                                                Williams, Odell and Jones. 

                                            
                                                  On, Canals and Internal
                                                  Improvements
                                                -Messrs. Campbell, Steele, Conner, Bearss,
                                                Williams, Wilson and Hamilton.

                                            
                                                  Committee on the Affairs of the Town of
                                                  Indianapolis
                                                -Messrs. Bobbins, Newcomb, Blair, Line and
                                                Cobb. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Claims
                                                -Messrs. Mellett, Robinson, Stone, Dickinson,
                                                Carnahan. Johnson and Jones. 

                                            
                                                   Committee on State Prison
                                                -Messrs. Bearss, Anthony, Teegarden, Mellett,
                                                Culver, Murray, Tarkington, Slack, Line, Wolf and
                                                Cobb. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Expenditures
                                                -Messrs. Blair, Turner, Claypool, Campbell,
                                                Ferguson, O'Brien and Lomax. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on Banks
                                                -Messrs. Steele, March, Claypool, Bearss,
                                                Conley, Hamilton and Landers. 

                                            
                                                   Committee on Manufactures
                                                -Messrs. Robinson, Beeson, Hull, Shoemaker and
                                                Johnson. 

                                            

                                            
                                                   Committee on Agriculture
                                                -Messrs. Beeson, Culver, Campbell, Murray,
                                                Bearss, Williams, Shoulders, Johnson and Lomax. 
                                            
                                                  Committee on Unfinished
                                                  Business
                                                -Messrs. Stone, White, Bobbins, Grubbs,
                                                Ferguson, Hamilton, and O'Brien. 

                                            
                                                   Committee on Benevolent
                                                  Institutions
                                                -Messrs. Teegarden, Newcomb, Cravens,
                                                Dickinson, Bobbins, Hamilton, Line, Tarkington, and
                                                Conley. 
                                            
                                                   Committee on Swamp Lands
                                                -Messrs. Turner, De Hart, Miller, Conner,
                                                Odell, Wilson, and Shoulders. 
                                            
                                                   Committee on Temperance
                                                -Messrs. Dickinson, Culver, Hull, White,
                                                Johnson, Shields, and Shoulders. 
                                            
                                                   Committee on County and Township
                                                  Business
                                                -Messrs. Culver, Campbell, Anthony, Murray,
                                                Shoemaker, and Line. 
                                            
                                                   Committee on Phraseology and Arrangement
                                                  of Bills
                                                -Messrs. Claypool, March, Turner, O'Brien, and
                                                Jones. 
                                            
                                                   Committee on Printing
                                                -Messrs. De Hart, Culver, Murray, Mellet, Wolf,
                                                Ray and Cobb. 
                                            
                                                   Committee on Enrolled Bills
                                                -Messrs. Berry, Stone, Blair, Ferguson, and
                                                O'Brien. 
                                            
                                                  Committee on Rights and
                                                  Privileges
                                                -Messrs. Grubbs, Dickinson, De Hart,
                                                Studabaker, and Line. 
                                        

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            JOINT COMMITTEES. 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                  Committee on Public Buildings
                                                -Messrs. Newcomb, Miller, Hull, Line, and
                                                Lnnders. 

                                            
                                                  Committee on State Library
                                                -Messrs Anthony, Teegarden, White, Cravens,
                                                Shoemaker, Hamilton and Conley.
                                        

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            On motion by Mr. LINE, 200 copies of the standing committees were
                                ordered printed for the use of the Senate. 
                        
                        


                        
                             OFFICERS' REPORTS.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing that any reports of officers, for 1859, be laid on the
                                tables of Senators.

                        
                        

                        
                             BILLS INTRODUCED.

                            The following new propositions were passed the first reading without
                                objection :

                            By Mr. CONLEY: [S. 15.] To amend an act to revise, simplify and
                                abridge the rules, practice and pleading in courts, approved June
                                18, 1852; increasing the length of stay in the collection of debts
                                to double the length of time that it is now.

                            By Mr. JONES: [S. 16.] Requiring township assessors to ascertain the
                                number of sheep killed or injured by dogs.

                            By Mr. WILSON: [S. 17.] Allowing prosecuting attorneys ten percent,
                                upon all moneys collected upon forced connoisance.

                            By Mr. CONNER: [S. 18.] To amend sec. 315 of an act to revise,
                                simplify and abridge the rules, practice, pleadings and forms in
                                civil causes; making publication thirty days before the first day of
                                the term sufficient.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: [S. 19.] To amend sec. 3 of an act to provide for
                                the protection of wild game, approved February 26, 1857; by
                                inserting "March" and "November" instead of "April " and "
                                October.'

                            By Mr. CRAVENS: [S. 20.] Supplemental to an act to regulate and
                                license the sale of spirituous, vinous, malt and other intoxicating
                                liquors, approved March 5, 1859; provides that whenever persons
                                applying for license shall be aggrieved, they may apply to the
                                Circuit Court, or may demand a trial by jury without appeal.

                            By Mr. DICKINSON: [S. 21.] To apportion Senators and Representatives
                                for the next six years.

                            By Mr. MURRAY: [S. 22.] Requiring the collection of moneys due for
                                license for the sale of intoxicating liquors by taxation of the
                                property in which such liquors are vended; adding the moneys so
                                received to the common school fund.

                            By Mr. HULL: [S. 23.] To amend sec. 70 of an act for the valuation
                                and assessment of real and personal property, for the collection of
                                taxes, &c., approved June 21, 1852; so as to require the
                                assessor to make out his lists " before the first day of March or
                                the March session of the Commissioners' Court," instead of the "
                                first day of June," as the statute now provides.

                            [A message from the House was received announcing the passage by that
                                body of a resolution inviting the Senate to a joint convention for
                                the purpose of electing a United States Senator, on Wednesday next
                                at 2 o'clock, P. M.]

                            By Mr. LINE : [S. 24 ] To amend section 6 of an act for the
                                encouragement of agriculture, approved June 17, 1852; so that the
                                meetings of the State Board shall be on the " first Tuesday after
                                the first Monday in January," instead of "the first Thursday after
                                the first Monday."

                            By Mr. DICKINSON: [S. 25.] Authorizing justices of the peace, judges
                                of courts and mayors of towns and cities to administer oaths
                                generally; and making legal, oaths heretofore administered by such
                                officers.

                            By Mr. SHOEMAKER: [S. 26.] Supplementary to an act concerning the
                                re-location of county seats in certain cases, approved December 22,
                                1858, so as to legalize and confirm the action of Boards of
                                Commissioners in cases when public property has been conveyed under
                                the provisions of such act, and to provide for the conveyance of the
                                asylum for the poor, in certain cases, and to provide also that
                                certain trustees shall be created bodies politic and corporate.

                            By Mr. LOMAX: [S. 27.] To enable persons objecting to the location,
                                vacation, or changing of highways, to remonstrate against the same.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            NEWSPAPERS FOR MEMBERS.

                            Mr. MURRAY, by leave, from the Select Committee appointed for that
                                purpose, made a report recommending the Senate to subscribe for
                                three copies of the Daily Sentinel and the Daily
                                    Journal two copies of each to be enveloped and
                                stamped.

                            Mr. LINE moved that the Senate concur in the report of the
                                Committee.

                            Mr. MARCH. Will the chairman of the Committee inform the Senate the
                                price asked for those papers?

                            Mr. MURRAY. I have consulted with the proprietors, and they propose
                                letting us have the papers for five cents a copy-two to be stamped the same price at which
                                they were furnished last session.

                            Mr. COBB moved to amend the report by including The
                                    Volksblatt and Indiana American.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to amend the amendment by including the Free Press.

                            Mr. COBB accepted the amendment.

                            Mr. JOHNSON moved to amend the amendment by striking out the words
                                "three copies" and inserting the words "one copy."After remarks by
                                Messrs. Johnson, Murray, March, Turner, Hamilton, Mellett and
                                Line-

                            Mr.JOHNSON'S amendment was rejected.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to amend the amendment by allowing each member to
                                subscribe for three copies of any paper he may choose.

                            On motion of Mr. ANTHONY, all amendments were laid on the table-yeas
                                25; noes 16.

                            Mr. CONNER moved to amend the report of the committee by adding the
                                words "also one copy of a newspaper of each of the several counties
                                of the State having the largest circulation, provided that no paper shall have the sanction of the
                                Senate which does not take a high stand for the Union now and
                                forever."

                            Mr. STEELE. If would ask if that resolution, having reference to the
                                Union, should not go to the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations. [Laughter.]

                            On motion of Mr. COBB, it was laid on the table-yeas 38, nays 8.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB offered in lieu of the committee report, a resolution
                                providing that each member of the Senate be authorized to subscribe
                                for any number of newspapers printed in Indianapolis, not exceeding
                                live copies per day, at a rate not exceeding the price paid at the
                                last session.

                            Mr. JOHNSON moved to amend by inserting in the proper place the words
                                at their own expense." [Laughter.]

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY-yeas 22, nays 18-the amendments were laid on
                                the table. 

                             [A message from the House was received, announcing the passage by
                                that body of a, resolution inviting the President of the United
                                States elect to visit this Legislature, when on his way to
                                Washington: and. authorizing the appointment of a committee of seven
                                on the part of the House, and six on the part of the Senate, to
                                escort him thither from the State line.]

                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend the report of the committee, by providing
                                that the papers are to be furnished at the same price at which they
                                are furnished to individual subscribers, adding the cost of
                                stamps.

                            Mr. CONLEY moved to amend the amendment, by providing that the
                                Doorkeeper shall con tract for two copies for each member of the Daily Sentinel and the Daily
                                    Journal one copy to be enveloped and stamped.

                            On motion of Mr. MELLETT this amendment to the amendment was laid on
                                the table.

                            Mr. COBB made an ineffectual motion-yeas 9, nays 32-to lay the
                                amendment on the table.

                             Mr. LINE demanded the previous question.

                            The call was seconded by 28 Senators.

                            The main question being ordered-

                            Mr. March's amendment was agreed to, and the report of the committee
                                as amended was concurred in.

                            Mr. CONNER. I move to reconsider the vote just taken. As a Senator
                                upon this floor it is my desire to take a course in legislation that
                                shall have an eye to rigid economy. The expense of the State for
                                newspapers and postage is something like four or five thousand
                                dollars. Now certainly any step which involves an expenditure even
                                to that extent is of sufficient importance to require us to stop and
                                think before we act The question will be sprung upon us in a few
                                days as to what number of copies we will take of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS, which is a record of the
                                proceedings of this body, and nothing else. It will be urged that we
                                should take that because it is a very important thing, and in order
                                to give the country a full report of our proceedings. Now I desire
                                to state in this connection that I have no hostility to the press of
                                Indianapolis. It is proper that the leading papers of the State
                                should have reporters, that they may report the proceedings which
                                takes place in this Senate Chamber, in view of the increased
                                circulation given to their papers by so doing. There are about 5,000
                                voters in HIT district, and suppose we take two or three copies of
                                these papers, I beg to know what benefit it will be to the country
                                when you can hope to send but one newspaper to one man in 25 or 30 ?
                                I desire to say barely this much, to indicate why I was opposed to
                                taking any of these papers. 

                             Mr. MURRAY. I am satisfied the action of this body amounts to a
                                refusal to take the papers. We will have the whole question up again
                                when the Doorkeeper comes to make his report, for the Journal and Sentinel proprietors are not
                                going to let us have their papers on these terms. 1 ask gentlemen
                                who object to taking these papers on the score of economy, to look
                                to expenses in other quarters and see whether they can not save
                                money without sacrificing the proposition to enlighten our
                                constituents concerning our action here. We employ a great deal of
                                help for our officers and we have bills printed for our own use; all
                                this without any practical benefit to the people. We hold a majority
                                in both branches of the Legislature, and we will be held responsible
                                for everything passed ; I do not want to keep the people in
                                darkness; I want to let them know what we are doing. I tell
                                gentlemen that information must be imparted to our constituents. I
                                might go on and say that we are expending thousands of dollars every
                                sesson for the printing of our Journals and Reports of benevolent
                                institutions for no prac tical
                                benefit. Let gentlemen curtail these expenditures.

                            Mr. WAGNER. I am in favor of taking the papers and sending them to my
                                constituents, but I want them to pay for it, for I won't do it. I do
                                not get money enough to afford it. I hold the opinion that we should
                                have a reporter upon this floor of our own and pay him for the
                                amount of his work according to any other man who works for money ;
                                and that he shall furnish a report free to any papers that will
                                publish it. These matters must be reported; these newspapers can not
                                afford to print and report for nothing, and we can not pay all these
                                papers for the same thing. 1 shall introduce a resolution at the
                                proper time appointing a committee to get up such an
                                arrangement.

                            Mr. CONNER withdrew his motion to reconsider. 

                        
                        

                        
                            SENATE BILLS ON THE SECOND READING.
                            The following bills, introduced Saturday, were read the second time
                                and severally disposed of as recited:

                            Mr. Conley's [S. 6.] to repeal the act, approved March 7, 1857,
                                authorizing the formation of new counties and the change of county
                                boundaries. Referred to a select committee consisting of Senators
                                Conley, Steele, Anthony, Johnson, and White.

                            Mr. Newcomb's [S. 7.] supplementary to an act concerning real
                                property, and the alienation thereof, approved May 6, 1852.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB recited the objects of his bill, as recited in these
                                report where it was introduced ; and the bill was ordered engrossed
                                for the third reading.

                            Mr. Line's [S. 8] to amend the liquor law of March 5, 1859. Referred
                                to the Committee on Temperance.

                            Mr. Claypool's [S. 9] limiting the jurisdiction of Justices of the
                                Peace to the county. Referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. Lomax's [S. 10] to amend the School Law. Referred to the
                                    Committee on Education.

                             Mr. Conner's [S. 11] repealing the law giving possession to the
                                purchaser of a tax title before the deed is executed, being
                                read-

                            Mr. COBB. I certainly object to the passage of this bill. The act of
                                1852, in my opinion, is correct. In order to enforce the payment of
                                the money and interest, it is necessary to have a clause like the
                                one in the present statute. It drives the owner of the land sold for
                                the payment of taxes very quickly to redeem it. If you allow the
                                owner of the land sold for taxes to keep possession, there is no
                                inducement for him to redeem his land before the two years is
                                up.

                            The bill was ordered engrossed for a third reading.

                            Mr. Craven's [S. 12,] requiring that appraisers shall be appointed
                                from the county in which the land is situate, being read-

                            Mr. CRAVEN explained the provisions of his bill, and on his motion it
                                was ordered engrossed for the third reading.

                            Mr. Lomax's [S. 13] providing that the ' township trustee shall hold
                                his office for two years instead of one. Referred to the
                                    Committee on Education.

                            Mr. Carnahan's [S. 14] to amend the ac providing for the settlement
                                of decedents' estates. Referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

                            Was received, announcing the passage of a resolution by that body
                                providing for the appointment of a Joint
                                    Committee to wait on the Governor and Lieutenant
                                Governor elect, to ascertain what time it will suit their conveyence
                                to take the oath of office.

                        
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF U. S. SENATOR.

                            On motion of Mr. BLAIR, the House resolution, providing for a Joint
                                Convention elect a Senator next Wednesday, at 2 o'clock was taken up
                                and concurred in.

                        
                        

                        
                             VISIT OF THE PRESIDENT ELECT.

                            The House resolution, inviting the Hon. Abraham Lincoln to visit this
                                Legislature on his way to the Capital of the United State was then
                                taken up and concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                             THE GOVERNOR AND LT. GOVERNOR ELECT.

                            The House resolution, appointing a Committee to wait on the Governor
                                and Lieutenant Governor to ascertain at what time it would suit
                                their convenience to receive their oath of office, being read-

                            Mr. WAGNER. I think the House is actting premature, and my object in
                                rising is to move to lay the message and resolution on the table.
                                his Senate has no legal knowledge that this is the fact, and until
                                we have the knowledge, I am not in favor of passing the resolution.
                                It may or may not be so. The probabilities are it is so. The law
                                provides I that we shall go into the Hall of the House to ascertain
                                whether it is so or not. It is a perfect farce to go and count the
                                votes after we shall have resolved that it is so. I move to lay the
                                resolution on the table.

                            The motion, was agreed to.

                        
                        

                        
                            HALL PRIVILEGES.

                            Mr. TURNER; by leave, offered a resolution granting the privilege of
                                free access to the floor to James Sutherland and J. A. Berry,
                                compilers of a Biography of Indiana Statesmen. 
                        
                        

                        
                             OFFICIAL REPORTER-STATIONERY.
                            Mr. WAGNER, by leave, offered a resolution instructing the
                                    Committee on Finance to inquire into the
                                expediency of providing by law for the furnishing of stationery for
                                the use of the General Assembly, and report by bill or otherwise ;
                                also, some plan by which a reporter may be employed to report
                                proceedings.

                            Mr. CONNER. In order to prevent a conflict of duties, I move to
                                strike out the words 
                                    "Committee on Finance," and insert the words
                                "special committee on stationery."

                            Mr. WAGNER, I wish to state that my object is not a temporary one.
                                This is a different matter; it is to be a permanent, thing for all
                                future legislatures ; to be placed upon the statute books until the
                                law may be changed. So these matters do not conflict.

                            Mr. CONNER withdrew his motion.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            And then-

                            On motion the Senate took a recess till '2 o'clock.
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. LINE, by leave, offered a resolution, which was adopted,
                                authorizing the appointment of a committee of five to inquire into
                                the expediency of amending the Constitution of the State.

                            The PRESIDENT makes the committee to consist of Senators Line, March,
                                Ray, Claypool and Ferguson.

                            
                                 A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

                                Was received, inviting the Senate to repair to the
                                    Representatives' Hall instanter, to witness the canvassing of
                                    votes cast at the October election for Governor and Lieutenant
                                    Governor of the State.

                                The invitation was accepted, and Senators accordingly immediately
                                    left the Hall.
                            
                            

                            
                                AFTER THE RETURN OF THE SENATE

                                LIEUT. GOVERNOR, Oliver P. Morton, took his seat as the presiding
                                    officer, ex officio, of the Senate.

                                And then-

                                On motion, the Senate adjourned.

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            MONDAY, January 14. 1861.
                        

                        The House met at O'clock.

                        Mr. ORR submitted a resolveion, which wae adopted, that a committee of
                            two be appointed to act with a similar committee appointed on the part
                            ot the Senate, to wait upon His Excellency, Henry S. Lane, Governor
                            elect of the State of Indiana, and His Excellency O. P. Morton, the
                            Lieutenant Governor elect, and inform them of their election, and
                            ascertain when it will be convenient for them to rake their oath of
                            office.

                        The SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Orr and Jenkinson as said Committee on the
                            part of the House.

                        
                            ELECTION OF U. S. SENATOR.

                            Mr. BUNDY submitted a resolution, which was adopted, proposing to the
                                Senate a Joint Convention next Wednesday, at 2 a'clock, for the
                                election of a Senatar of the United States in the place of the Hon.
                                G. N. Fitch, whose term expires on the 4th af March next.

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION,

                             Mr. PITTS submitted a joint resolution, (3)which was referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen, declaring that Indiana
                                spurns with just indignation the charge that she ever had, either
                                now or heretofore, any legislative enactment, constitutional or
                                otherwise, the intent or effect of which is or was, either directly
                                or indirectly, to impede, obstruct, hinder or retard the rendition
                                of fugitives from service or labor, when "claimed" under the act of
                                Congress of 1798 or I860, commonly known as the Fugitive Slave
                                Law.

                            2. That Indiana is now, as ever, loyal to the Constitution ; that she
                                views with regret the passage by Massachusetts and other Northern
                                States, and the continuance thereof on their statute books, of
                                so-called Personal Liberty Bills; that she is opposed to the spirit
                                of all such laws, and demands their speedy and unconditional repeal,
                                as well as that of all other laws nullifying any of the provisions
                                of the Constitution, either North or South.

                            3. That the Fugitive Slave Law should be so amended or modified as to
                                make the fee allowed to the Commissioner equal in all cases, and to
                                allow the Marshal to call the 
                                    posse comitatus
                                 only in those cases where there is an apparent or manifest
                                intent to prevent the apprehension of the fugitive, or to rescue the
                                same.

                            4. That a copy be sent to the Governors of the slave States,
                                including South Carolina and Mississippi. 
                        
                        

                        
                             REPORTERS.

                            Mr. BOYDSTON submitted a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                authorizing seats within the bar for all reporters for the newspaper
                                press.
                        
                        

                        
                             HONOR TO THE PRESIDENT ELECT OF THE U.S. 

                            Mr. CAMERON submitted a joint resolution, inviting the President
                                elect of the United States to visit the Legislature of the State of
                                Indiana, on his way to the Federal Capital; that a Joint Committee
                                of seven on the part of the House, and six on the part of the
                                Senate, be appointed to inform him of this invitation, and if he
                                accept, meet him at the State border, and escort him to the
                                Capital.

                            Mr. ORR would prefer that the committee consist of eighteen for the
                                House and sixteen for the Senate-making one for each State in the
                                Republic. But he did not insist upon the amendment.

                            Mr. PROSSER demanded the yeas and nays, and there was a second. Under
                                ordinary circumstances he would not object, to the adoption of such
                                a resolution, but he considered it was manifestly improper now.

                            Mr. ORR hoped the State of Indiana was not ashamed'to invite the
                                President to her capital under any circumstances. He supposed she
                                looked upon him as a statesman and a patriot, and desires to show
                                him the respect which such qualities command.

                             Mr. HEFFREN had seen by the Cincinnati Gazette,
                                that Mr. Lincoln desires to go quietly to the capital; and since the country
                                was apprehensive of excitement about the inauguration, and he did
                                not want to see the State of Indiana do anything to embarrass
                                him.

                            Mr. CAMERON. We were not take newspaper reports to regulate our
                                action. The resolution proposed an expression not improper at this
                                or any other time. It was simply to indicate that Indiana was loyal
                                to the Union; that Indiana means to support the government, whether
                                it be in Democratic or Republican hands.

                            The resolution was adopted-yeas 67, nays 16. 

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION. 

                             Mr. UNDERWOOD submitted a preamble and resolutions, three, which
                                were referred to the Committee of Thirteen,
                                rehearsing that,

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Whereas, in view of the conduct of many persons in the
                                            States of Georgia, South Carolina, Alabama, and Florida,
                                            extendig to the adoption of resolutions proclaiming the
                                            dissolution of the Union of these States, and to the
                                            seizure of the Postoffices, Custom-houses, vessels,
                                            forts, and arsenals within those States belonging to the
                                            General Government, and to the firing a vessel of the
                                            United States-thus placing themselves in a position of
                                            open rebellion against the Government-committing thereby
                                            the grave crime of treason against, and seeking the
                                            overthrow of the nation-a government founded by freemen
                                            and sealed with their blood, and which for 84 years has
                                            been the hope of the civilized world-now sought to be
                                            destroyed for the unholy purpose of slavery extension;
                                            therefore-

                                        Be it Resolved, &c., That the
                                            entire power and resources of the State of Indiana are
                                            pledged, (whenever demanded, in thick subordination to
                                            the civil authority of the States,) for the maintainance
                                            and perpetuation of our glorious Union.

                                        2. That the Union loving citizens of the Southern States,
                                            who labor with devoted courage and patriotism to prevent
                                            so great a calamity as dissolution are entitled to the
                                            gratitude of all the lovers of the Union.

                                        3. That the Governor transmit a copy to the President,
                                            the State Governors, and our Senators and
                                            Representatives in Congress. 

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            PUBLIC ARMS. 

                             Mr. MOODY submitted a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                calling upon the Quarter-Master General to inform the House what
                                arms there on hand belonging to the State, and what arms have been
                                distributed during the last five years, and to what counties, also
                                whether, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SWAMP LAND FUND.

                             Mr. FEAGLER submitted a resolution, which was adopted, for the
                                appointed of a committe of seven to inquire into the condition of
                                the Swamp Land Fund, how the same have been expended, &c.

                            Mr. Thomas proposed to amend by adding a requistion that the Clerk
                                lay on the table each member a copy of the report of the Joint
                                Committee on Swamp Lands to the last Legislature.

                            Mr. BRANHAM proposed to amend so as: that instead of creating a
                                select commitoee, the matter of the resolution be referred to the
                                    Committee on Swamp Lands. If we revise
                                special committees, and take the business cut of the hands of the
                                standing committees and give it to them, we duplicate the work. Not
                                only have we not men enough to proceed in this way, but, it will
                                cost the State twice much.

                            Mr. MOODY was as much in favor of investigation as any other member,
                                but he was opposed to the raising of special committees for such
                                purposes. He knew something of the difficulty and expense of such an
                                investigation from the committee raised to years ago. The standing
                                committee to be appointed by the Chair, would be able to so direct
                                the investigation as to accomplish all the gentleman desires,
                                without this endless expense of special committees.

                            Mr. Branham's amendment was accepted, and the resolution adopted by
                                consent.

                            Mr. Heffren introduced a bill, [H. R. 17.] regulating the Public
                                Printing of the State of Indiana, providing for letting the same to
                                the lowest bidder, also for the purchase of paper from the lowest
                                bidder, &c.; which was passed to the second reading. 

                             Mr. WOODHULL submitted several resolutions, [J. R. No. 4.] which go
                                to the Committee of Thirteen under the order of
                                last Friday, declaring-

                            
                                
                                    
                                        1. That, as the Constiution of the United States affords
                                            the most perfect government ever formed by man, we will
                                            oppose with firmness every violation of its provisions,
                                            or alteration of its parts, except in that way provided
                                            i by the instrument itself. 

                                        2. That Indiana recommends to every State, in that spirit
                                            of fraternal feeling which should govern the people of a
                                            common country, to repeal any and all laws that may be
                                            found to contravene any provision of the Constitution of
                                            the General Government, or which mny conflict with any
                                            law of Congress made in accordance with said
                                            Constitution, and she stands pledged to strike from her
                                            statute books any such laws, if they should be found
                                            therein.

                                        3. That we recognize no conflicting elements in its
                                            composition, nor sufficient cause from any source, for a
                                            dissolution of the government; that the Congress of the
                                            United States is not authorized to destroy, but to
                                            sustain and harmonize the institutions of the country,
                                            and to see that equal justice is done to all parts of
                                            the same; and that it is the duty of the Congress and
                                            the President to maintain, support and perpetuate the
                                            government upon terms of justice and equality to all the
                                            States, and to use all the power conferred upon them for
                                            the securing of that end. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 18, 1861
                        No. 3
                    

                    
                        

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        4. That we hail with joy the recent firm, dignified and
                                            patriotic special message of the President of the United
                                            States, and heartily endorse his late efforts in defense
                                            of the same, and in enforcing the laws of Congress; and
                                            that the Union-loving citizens and Representatives of
                                            those States who labor with devoted courage and
                                            patriotism to withhold them from the vortex of coercion,
                                            are entitled to the admiration and gratitude of the
                                            whole people.

                                        5. That the Governor be requested to forward copies to
                                            the President and the State Governors. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW COUNTIES, &C. 
                             Mr. ERWIN introdnced a bill [18] to repeal and amend the first
                                section of the act to authorize the formation of new counties, and
                                to change county boundaries, &c., approved March 7, 1857, so as
                                to allow new counties to be formed out of territory less than 400
                                square miles.

                            Mr. PROSSER introduced a bill [19] to amend section 33 of the act to
                                revise, simplify and abridge the rules of Practice, Pleading,
                                &c.; approved June 18, 1862.

                            Mr. ROBERTS introduced a bill [20] to amend section 238 of the
                                Practice act; approved June 18, 1852.

                            Mr. MOSS introduced a bill [21] to amend section 420 ef the Practice
                                act of June 18, 1852. 

                            Mr. McCLURG introduced a bill [22] to repeal the act entitled an act
                                to abolish courts of conciliation, to prescribe rules of Practice
                                and pleading therein, and the compensation of Judges thereof,
                                approved June 11, 1852.

                            Mr. WILSON introduced a bill [23] to amend section 23 of thh act to
                                provide for the valuation and sale of real and personal property,
                                approved June 21,1862:
                            Which were severally read, and passed to the second reading
                                to-morrow. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AUDITORS' VOUCHERS. 
                             The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Auditor
                                of State, stating that the term of his office expires on the 25th
                                inst., and requesting the appointment of a committee to examine the
                                vouchers, and examine the cancelled notes of suspended banks which
                                have been redeemed since the close of the fiscal year of 1858. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INSURANCE LAW. 
                             Mr. PACKARD submitted a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing that so much of the Governor's Message as relates to his
                                recommendation concerning foreign and domestic Insurance companies
                                be referred to a select committee of five, instructed to report
                                thereon at as early a day as practicable. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REVISING THE NEW TESTAMENT.
                             Mr. FRAZIER submitted a resolution, which was laid on the table,
                                proposing to refer so much of the Governor's Message as relates to
                                the Clergy to a special committee of three,with instructions to
                                inquire into the expediency of revising the Few Testament, and to
                                report early.

                            Mr. JONES, of Wayne, submitted a resolution, which was adopted,
                                requesting the Committee on Education to inquire
                                into the expediency of so amending the school law as to require a
                                private subscription equal to the public money distributed in each
                                school district, &c.

                            Mr. ERWIN submitted a resolution, directing the Doorkeeper to procure
                                a copy of Jefferssn's Manual for the use of each member of this
                                House.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to substitute Cushing's Manual, which was
                                accepted, and so the resolution was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION. 

                            Mr. BUNDY submitted a joint resolution, [5] which was referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen, declaring, That the
                                Union of the States which constitute us one people, must be
                                preserved and maintained; that no State has the right peaceably to
                                withdraw or secede, and the attempt to do so is rebellion and
                                treason.

                            2. That the State of Indiana has no law on her statute books designed
                                or intended to interfere with the due execution of any of the laws
                                of the United States, and that any State having such laws ought
                                speedily to repeal them.

                            3. That the State of Indiana, now as heretofore, is unalterably
                                opposed to any interference with the laws or institutions of any of
                                her sister States, just as she would oppose the interference of any
                                such States with her laws and institutions. 

                            4. That while the State of Indiana will deplore the necessity which may compel
                                the U. States to resort to force in the execution of the laws
                                against treason and rebellion, nevertheless the laws of the United
                                States must be executed, and the Union preserved ; and for that
                                purpose, the men and means of the State of Indiana are hereby
                                tendered to the President Of the United States.

                            4. That a copy of these be forwarded immediately by the Governor to
                                the President and the Governors of the several States. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NAVIGATION OF THE MISSISSIPPI. 

                             Mr. HEFFREN submitted a joint resolution [6] setting forth, that,
                                whereas we, the Senators and Representatives of the people of
                                Indiana, in General Assembly convened, have read with pain in the
                                telegraphic messages of the country, of the intent of a body of men
                                in the Southern States of this Confederacy to Compel all vessels
                                navigating the waters of the Mississippi river to heave to and be
                                examined ; and whereas, we believe that we would be unmindful of our
                                duty to our constituents, unjust to Indiana and the great Northwest,
                                if we should not speak out upon the question of the free and
                                unobstructed navigation of the Misaissippi, upon whose waters float
                                annually hundreds of millions of commerce, and tens of thousands of
                                our citizens; therefore be it resolved, &c.

                            That under no circumstances can we see the mouths of the Mississippi
                                river, (or any portion thereof,) in the hands of any foreign power,
                                or recognize the right of any power, government, or set of men, to
                                hinder, delay or obstruct the free navigation of the same ; and that
                                if our boats or vessels of any kind or character, when peacefully
                                navigating the waters of said river, are molested, hindered, or
                                disturbed in any way or manner, by any government foreign to ours,
                                or even professing or declaring themselves so to be, or by any body
                                of men pretending to act by the authority of any State or nation, it
                                would be by us considered a heinous offence upon our people and the
                                people of the whole Northwest; and that we pledge to the people of
                                the mighty valley of the Mississippi to use all all our endeavors to
                                preserve their long-granted privileges; and in case all means fail
                                to preserve our right to navigate in peace and quiet said stream, we
                                pledge our undivided support to use such means as the necessities of
                                the case may require, to protect our commerce and our people.

                            2, That a copy of this preamble and resolutions be forwarded to our
                                Senators and Representatives in Congress, with instructions to
                                present them to both Houses of Congress, and also, that one copy be
                                forwarded to the Governors of each of the States of the Union.

                            Mr. HEFFREN demanded the yeas and nays on the adoption of his
                                proposition. He desired that the voice of the State of Indiana
                                should be heard distinctly on this subject, to the effect that she
                                cannot in any event recognize the right of any foreign power to
                                obstruct the navigation of the mouth of the Mississippi.

                            Mr. GRESHAM objected to the word "privileges," in the resolution.

                            Mr. VEATCH proposed to change the words "long granted privileges " to
                                "long granted rights."

                            Mr. HEFFREN accepted "long vested rights."

                            Mr. FRAZIER suggested another verbal amendment; and Mr. JONES, of
                                Vermillion, proposed to strike out "heave to," and insert "round
                                to."

                            Mr. HEFFREN appealed against minute corrections in technicality and
                                sea terms which land-lubbers need not be careful to know anything
                                about.

                            Mr. EDSON proposed to insert after the words "mouths of the
                                Mississippi," these words: "or any poation thereof."

                            Mr. Heffren accepted.

                            The joint resolution was adopted-yeas 86, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            BILLS INTRODUCED.
                             Mr. McLEAN introduced a bill [24] to prevent the emigration of
                                voters from one country to another, and from one township to
                                another, for the purpose of influencing elections; prescribing
                                penalties for persons engaging therein, and to preserve the purity
                                of the ballot box:

                            Mr. HOLCOMB introduced a bill [25] to repeal the act for the
                                protection of wild game, &c., approved February 26, 1857:

                            Mr. CAMERON introduced a bill [26] to amend the first section of the
                                act to provide for the protection of wild game, defining the time in
                                which the same may be taken and killed, and declaring a penalty for
                                the violation of this act, approved February 26, 1851:

                            Mr. BUNDY: [27.] Fixing the compensation of the Speaker of the House
                                of Representatives:

                            Mr. NEBEKER: [28.] To amend the first section of the act approved May
                                27, 1852, concerning interest on money.

                            Mr. KENDRICK: [29.] To create the Sixteenth Judicial Court(the connty
                                of Marion :)

                            Which were severally read and passed to the second reading
                                tomorrow.

                            Mr. BRUCKER submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee of Roads inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the law in relation to highways, us to
                                require the owners of lands on highways and railroads to cut down
                                dangerous trees, &c.

                            Mr. GRESHAM submitted a resolution, requesting the citizens of
                                Indianapolis to close their shops and attend on the raising of tho
                                national flag on the dome of the capital.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend, by extending the invitation to all the
                                military companies of the city.

                            

                            Mr. Gresham accepted, and so the resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. WOODRUFF submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the school law as to authorize the school
                                directors to employ teachers without submitting the matter to the
                                people of the district. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SOLDIERS OF THE WAR OF 1812.
                             Mr. STOTSENBURG submitted a joint resolution, [7] rehearsing that,
                                whereas there are yet surviving some of those brave and patriotic
                                men who served their country faithfully in the War of 1812, and some
                                indigent widows of the soldiers of said war; and whereas, &c.,
                                Be it resolved, &c., That our Senators in Congress be
                                instructed, and our Representatives requested, to use their best
                                endeavors for the passage of a law to provide a pension for such
                                soldiers [of 1812] and widows during their natural lives.

                             The joint resolution was adopted-yeas 80, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MILITARY COMMISSIONS.
                             Mr. MOODY submitted a resolution, which was adopted, requesting the
                                Secretary of State to inform this House what military commissions
                                have been issued during the last six years. &c.

                            Mr. WOODHULL presented the petition of citizens of Steuben county,
                                which was referred without reading, to the Committee on
                                    Roads. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE NATIONAL HOMESTEAD.
                             Mr. HAYS submitted a joint resolution (8) to the effect that our
                                Senators in Congress be instructed and our Representatives requested
                                to take such action as may be necessary to secure to each actual
                                settler on the public lands a homestead of 1.60 acres of land.

                            The joint resolution was adopted-yeas 86, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            TEN PER CENT. SCHOOL TAX.
                             Mr. LANE submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                Committee on Education, to Inquire into the expediency of so
                                amending the school laws as to leave the ten per cent, school tax in
                                the counties where collected. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PROHIBITORY LIQUOR LAW.
                             Mr. BUNDY presented the memorial of N. H. Ballenger and others, for
                                a prohibitory liquor law. The paper being read-

                            Mr. BUNDY, supposing the Legislature could not pass the law asked
                                for, under the constitution, still desired the memorial to be
                                referred to the Committee on Temperance.

                            It was so referred. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COUNTY CLERKS' FEES.
                             Mr. FORDYCE submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary to inquire into
                                the expediency of reducing the fees of county clerks in the settling
                                of decedents' estates. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CLERICAL AND POLICE FORCE OF THE HOUSE.
                             Mr. PACKARD submitted a resolution, which was agreed to by consent,
                                requesting the Principal Clerk and Doorkeeper to report to the House
                                to-morrow the number and names of the persons employed by them
                                respectively. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MEMBERS' POSTAGE AND PAY.
                             Mr. HEFFREN submitted a joint resolution [9] in regard to the
                                postage and pay of members, which was read. [They may draw per diem
                                to date.]

                            The SPEAKER. The Chair would suggest that the resolution should
                                include the officers of the House.

                            Mr. HEFFREN accepted the modification.

                            And so the resolution passed--yeas 84, hays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AN EAGLE'S IMAGE FOR THE HALL.
                             Mr. VEATCH submitted a resolution, instructing the Doorkeeper to
                                cause the Gold Eagle presented to the House of Representatives by
                                John H. Vagen, a patriotic naturalized citizen of Indianapolis, to
                                be placed on the clock behind the Speaker's chair.

                            Mr. VEATCH-Mr. Speaker. I present this valuable ornament and national
                                emblem, tendered by the worthy and patriotic citizen whose name is
                                mentioned in the resolution, and I hope it will be accepted by the
                                House; and that this and many other expressions of patriotism will
                                be freely indorsed by every member of this body.

                            Let it be placed upon the clock over the Speaker's chair, and let
                                every one whose eye falls upon it, be reminded of the value and
                                power of that government whose protecting arm should extend
                                impartially over every part of this great nation.

                            We are likely, Mr. Speaker, during the session, to have much of the
                                article of "spread eagle," of a bastard kink, offered to us at great
                                expense to the State. Let me present you the genuine article, free
                                of cost.

                            The resolution was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXTRA TERMS-COMPENSATION.
                             Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe, submitted a resolution, which was adopted,
                                requesting the Auditor of State to furnish the House with the names
                                of all the Circuit Judges and Prosecutors who have received extra
                                compensation for holding extra terms, and the several amounts so
                                paid or ordered to be paid, under the law of 1858.

                            Mr. JENKINSON submitted a resolution, which was adopted, giving the
                                privileges of the Hall to Mr. James Sutherland and Mr. James A.
                                Berry, compilers of Biography of American Statesmen. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ANNUAL SESSIONS, &C.
                             Mr. BUNDY submitted a resolution,which was adopted, requesting the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expedience of framing and submitting to the House, amendments to the constitution, providing
                                for annual sessions of the Legislature, and providing also that the
                                citizens of townships may levy such school tax as they shall deem
                                expedient.

                            Mr. McLEAN submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire into the
                                expediency of so modifying the duties of Superintendent of Public
                                Instruction as to make them merely nominal; and whether under our
                                constitution, said office cannot be wholly abolished.

                            Mr. THOMAS submitted an order that the Clerk be instructed to procure
                                and lay on the desk of each member, a copy of the Report of the
                                    Joint Committee on Swamp Lands of the last
                                session.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. Would not that require the printing of the Report if it
                                could not be found? He hoped the printing would not be required. He
                                believed they could get plenty of them down ot Vernon.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. He would inform the gentleman that the Swamp Land Report
                                was incorporated in the journal of the last House of
                                Representatives, now lying on each member's table. He moved to lay
                                the order on the table.

                            The motion was agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CALUMET DAM.
                             Mr. WOODS submitted a preamble and resolution, which were adopted,
                                rehearsing that, Whereas many thousands of acres of land in the
                                County of Lake are overflowed by the erection of a darn at Blue
                                Island across the Calumet river, therefore Resolved, that the
                                    Judiciary Committee invesiigate by what right
                                said dam has been erected, and kept up in violation of the rights of
                                the people of this State, and report by bill or otherwise.

                            The SPEAKER, by request of the Governor, now laid before the House
                                sundry documents in writing in connection with the Swamp Land
                                matters.

                            Mr. MOODY submitted a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire, and report at
                                as early a day as practicable, what would be the effect of the
                                repeal of the present militia law, of those holding military office
                                under the appointment of the Governor, &c.

                            Mr. BEACH submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Judiciary Committee define what is an
                                assault, and report by bill or otherwise.

                            Mr. GROVER submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expediency of abolishing the Common Pleas Court, and report,
                                &c.

                            The House took a recess till a quarter before 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             The SPEAKER announced that the constitution requires that the
                                Speaker shall this day open the returns of election of Governor and
                                Lieutenant Governor, and makes the term of these officers to
                                commence this day; and that he had issued a notification to the
                                Senate to appear, as the constitution requires, for the purpose of
                                witnessing this trrnsaction. As soon as the Senators appeared, he
                                should proceed. The Door-keeper will prepare seats for the Senators
                                on the right.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted a formal order of invitation for the Senate
                                which was adopted. 


                            
                                JOINT SESSION OF INAUGURATION.
                                 The President, members and officers of the Senate appeared and
                                    took seats in the Hall the President of the Senate on the right
                                    of the Speaker.

                                The PRESIDENT of the Senate. Gentlemen of the Senate and House of
                                    Representatives: The two Houses of the General Assembly having
                                    been called together in compliance with section 4 of the 5th
                                    article of the constitution of the State of Indiana, [which he
                                    read] the Speaker of the House of Representatives will now
                                    proceed to the discharge of that duty.

                                The SPEAKER of the House of Representatives thereupon proceeded
                                    to open and rend the returns of election of Governor and
                                    Lieutenant Governor, as polled at the last October election, in
                                    the several counties of this State, as far as they had been
                                    returned to him. He then announced the result, to wit: For the
                                    office of Governor-

                                
                                     Thomas A. Hendricks had received 126,768
                                            votes.
                                     Henry S: Lane " 136,125 "

                                

                                Henry S. Lane having received the highest number of votes given
                                    to any one person, was thereupon declared to be duly elected
                                    Governor of the State of Indiana for the constitutional term of
                                    four years.

                                For the office of Lieutenant Governor-

                                
                                     David Turpie received 126,292
                                            votes.

                                     Oliver P. Morton received 136,470
                                        "

                                

                                Oliver P. Morton having received the highest number of votes cast
                                    for any one person, he was declared to be duly elected to the
                                    office of Lieutenant Governor for the term of four years from
                                    and after the 14th day of January, 1861.

                                Mr. Representative HEFFREN submitted an order, which was adopted,
                                    that a committee of five, three on the part of the House and two
                                    on the part of the Senate, be forthwith appointed to wait upon
                                    their Excellencies, the Hon. Henry S. Lane and the Hon. Oliver
                                    P. Morton, and inform them of their election, whereupon-

                                The PRESIDENT of the Senate appointed Messrs. Steele and
                                    Hamilton.

                                The SPEAKER of the House appointed Messrs. Heffren, Bundy and
                                    Veatch.

                                The joint committee presently performed the duty assigned them,
                                    and the Governor elect first appearing on the forum-

                                The PRESIDENT of the Senate introduced him to the General
                                    Assembly, and through that body to the people of the
                                    Commonwealth of Indiana.The Governor elect now received the
                                        Constitutional oath of
                                    his office at the hands of Judge Perkins, and proceeded at once
                                    to deliver his inaugural address. It is as follows: 
                            
                            

                            
                                GOVERNOR'S MESSAGE.
                                
                                    Gentlemen of the Senate and House of
                                        Representatives, and Fellow Citizens:

                                The people of Indiana, in adopting their present Constitution,
                                    expressed their gratitude to Almighty God for the free exercise
                                    of the right to choose their own form of government, in order to
                                    establish justice, maintain public order, and perpetuate the
                                    principles of civil and religious liberty. For the present
                                    enjoyment of these inestimable rights and privilages; for the
                                    blessings of peace and order within our borders; for bountiful
                                    crops and for general health and prosperity throughout the year
                                    which has just closed, our most heartfelt thanks and gratitude,
                                    individually, and collectively as a people, are due to the same
                                    almighty, allwise, and beneficent Being. I feel the strongest
                                    degree of confidence, Senators and Representatives, in the
                                    belief that you will, in the exercise of those high and
                                    important legislative powers with which you are invested by the
                                    Constitution, be constantly governed by strong motives impelling
                                    you to adopt wise measures for the advancement and maintenance
                                    of the true interests of the people of the different sections of
                                    Indiana; and also by a patriotic desire to prevent or allay all
                                    unnecessary and injurious local political excitement, and to
                                    promote and secure as far as possible the general prosperity,
                                    safety, and honor of our beloved State.

                                The annual reports of the several State officers for the fiscal
                                    years ending in 1859 and 1860 have been laid before both
                                    branches of the Legislature, and these documents present an
                                    official exposition of the business and operations of the
                                    various department of the State government. They are worthy of,
                                    and will doubtless receive, your most careful examination and
                                    consideration, in order that the proper legislative remedies may
                                    be applied for the removal of any defects that may be found to
                                    exist, either in the laws relating to these departments or in
                                    the administration of those laws. Entertaining as I do the
                                    strongest confidence in the honesty and capacity of the recently
                                    elected Treasurer of State; and without intending to cast any
                                    reflection upon the official conduct of any of his predecessors
                                    in office, still I deem it proper at this time to recommend to
                                    you such changes in the law regarding the Treasurer's office as
                                    will most effectually prevent any mis appropriation of the
                                    public funds, or their use for any purpose of private
                                    speculation or gain, and which shall insure the availability and
                                    safety of money in the public treasury at all times. Changes
                                    calculated to effect these desirable and important objects, will
                                    receive my most cordial approbation and support

                                Our common school system, from its importance, demands and will
                                    doubtless receive your careful consideration. It is believed
                                    that such a modification of the school law can be made as will
                                    make the system more useful and less burthen-some to the people.
                                    In your efforts to secure these objects you may rely upon my
                                    co-operation.

                                From the report of the Auditor of Public Accounts it appears that
                                    the total receipts from all sources for the fiscal year ending
                                    the 31st of October, 1860, amounted to $1,658,217 87. The total
                                    expenditures during the same period were $1,621,108 48, leaving
                                    in the treasury at the close of the fiscal year an actual
                                    balance of $134,660 39. From the same report it appears that the
                                    domestic debt of the State on the 31st of October amounted to
                                    $2,008,993 59, and the foreign debt to $7,770,273 50. By a
                                    careful revision of all the laws which relate to the mode of
                                    conducting the financial affairs of the State, and by the
                                    application of the most rigid economy to all the various
                                    departments of the State administration, the present Legislature
                                    will, it is confidently believed, be enabled to provide ways and
                                    means less onerous and more effectual than those which have
                                    heretofore been in operation for the gradual reduction and final
                                    extinction of our State debt. In the administration of every de
                                    partment of the State Government, the strictest economy that can
                                    be introduced, consistently with a steady maintenance of the
                                    public interest, will be in accordance with the wishes and just
                                    expectations of the people of Indiana; and in all your efforts
                                    to make provisions for a faithful and economical administration
                                    of the State Government, you will have my earnest, active and
                                    honest co-operation and support. And in this connection permit
                                    me to suggest the importance of instituting a rigid inquiry, by
                                    a joint committee of the Senate and House of Representatives,
                                    into the past management and present condition of the various
                                    benevolent institutions of the State, and also of our State
                                    prisons; and if extravagance and mismanagement are found to
                                    exist in the administration of either or all of those
                                    institutions, to take such steps as shall in future prevent a
                                    recurrence of such abuses. The honor and interests of the
                                    citizens of the State of Indiana alike demand a thorough
                                    investigation in reference to the manner in which the swamp
                                    lands given to the State by the Congress of the United States
                                    have been disposed of. 

                                The importance of a well organized and thoroughly drilled
                                    militia, in the present critical condition of our National
                                    affairs, can not be over-estimated; and I will most heartily
                                    concur with you in any measures which you may devise, for the
                                    purpose of giving greater efficiency to the present very
                                    defective militia laws of our State. A possible, (I hope not a
                                    probable,) contingency may arise during the present session of
                                    the Legislature, which will make it necessary and proper for you
                                    to appropriate a sum sufficient to equip a portion of the
                                    Indiana Militia for the purpose of aiding in the prompt
                                    execution of the laws, and in the maintenance of the Government.
                                    If this contingency shall occur during your session I doubt not
                                    that you will meet it in a spirit becoming freemen and
                                    patriots.

                                The present laws in relation to the mode of conducting elections
                                    are not sufficient to protect the purity of the ballot-box, nor
                                    to prevent frauds upon the inestimable privilege of the elective
                                    franchise; and I therefore recommend such a revision and change
                                    of the election laws as will most effectually accomplish these
                                    objects.

                                Within the last few months, gentlemen of the Senate and House of
                                    Representatives, we have been compelled to be unwilling witnesses of the rapid progress
                                    of certain events which have seriously threatened the integrity
                                    of the Constitution and disturbed the harmony of the Union. In a
                                    few of the Southern States a treasonable conspiracy, originated
                                    by pestilent demagogues, has been allowed to grow and spread
                                    unpunished and even unrebuked, until, overrating its own
                                    strength and vastly underrating the patriotism of the people, it
                                    assumed form and boldness immediately after the late
                                    Presidential election, and now declares its objects to be the
                                    dismemberment of the United States and the founding of a
                                    Southern Confederacy of seceding States. To those who have
                                    carefully observed the rise and progress of this scheme of
                                    treason, it is evident that no compromises or concessions, which
                                    the people of the United States ought to make, in order to
                                    preserve the peace of the country, would be sufficient to
                                    satisfy the disunionists of South Carolina; and I regret to say
                                    that it seems to be almost certain that the people of a few of
                                    the Southern States are inclined, if not determined, to resist,
                                    by armed force, any attempt to hold South Carolina, or any other
                                    seceding State, in the Union, by means of the military and naval
                                    forces of the United States. But, notwithstanding the
                                    extraordinary and treasonable proceedings, and partial success
                                    of a large class of disunionists, I do not, at present believe
                                    it will become necessary to use any considerable part of the
                                    military power of the National Government, in order to punish
                                    overt acts of treason in any part of the Union. Every citizen of
                                    the Union is under an obligation to de fend the country, and its
                                    Constitution and laws, against the attacks of foreign enemies
                                    and the assaults of domestic traitors; and if ever a majority of
                                    the people of the United States shall deliberately repudiate
                                    this patriotic obligation, and shall wilfully and submissively
                                    permit treason to walk abroad in our fair land, defy our
                                    Constitution and laws, and assail our National Government, then
                                    our once magnificent, powerful and fraternal Union will sink
                                    into a state of hopeless anarchy and decay, and thus expose to
                                    the nations of the earth a chaotic mass of mighty ruins, upon
                                    which the friends of free popular government, throughout the
                                    world, may look with sorrow and despair. 

                                My faith in the power of American patriotism compels me to hope
                                    that a majority of the citizens of those States in which the
                                    greatest amount of angry excitement now prevails, will be found,
                                    in the hour of trial, ready to support and defend the
                                    constitutional authorities of the government of the United
                                    States, to baffle and defeat all the mad schemes of traitors and
                                    disunionists, to reestablish, in their respective States, the
                                    majesty of the laws and the supremacy of the Constitution, and
                                    to save our beloved country from the horrors of civil warfare
                                    and fraternal bloodshed. However alarming the present crisis in
                                    our affairs may be, still I hope, by prudent, firm, and
                                    patriotic action on the part of the people and their
                                    representatives, the right of every individual and State in the
                                    confederacy may be preserved inviolate, and that order, law, and
                                    justice may. soon be permitted to resume authority in those
                                    portions of the Republic where mob law has been too long
                                    tolerated in its murderous assaults on the persons and
                                    constitutional rights of American citizens. The novel, alarming,
                                    and treasonable assumption that any State in the Union has a
                                    right under the Federal Constitution to secede at pleasure, is a
                                    doctrine unknown to the Constitution, at war with the principles
                                    on which our government was established, and destructive of
                                    those high and sacred objects sought to be accomplished by the
                                    confederation. If the anti-Democratic and anti-Republican
                                    position now assumed by a large party at the South be true, "
                                    that the result of a Presidential election, legally and
                                    constitutionally conducted in all respects, is to be held a good
                                    reason for a dissolution of the Union," then the Union can only
                                    be preserved by a base surrender of the right of the majority to
                                    rule, and by striking down that liberty and equality which the
                                    Constitution was ordained and established to guarantee and
                                    perpetuate. The present disastrous agitation now existing in the
                                    Southern portion of the United States has been caused by the
                                    disingenuous and dishonest charges of unscrupulous and reckless
                                    partisans; who, in their madness and folly, have given to party
                                    that love which the patriot only bestows upon his country. Our
                                    Southern brethren have been taught to believe that the party
                                    lately triumphant in the Presidential election meditate an
                                    attack upon their domestic institutions and a violation of their
                                    constitutional rights. The history of that great party shows the
                                    utter groundlessness of these charges. A remote cause of the
                                    present hostile attitude of South Carolina may be found in the
                                    treasonable doctrines taught in 1832 and 1833 by the leaders of
                                    the nullification movement. These doctrines were temporarily
                                    crushed out by the firmness and patriotism of President Jackson,
                                    and by the almost universal disposition shown in all parts of
                                    the country to support him in the execution of the laws, and in
                                    the preservation of the Union. But, in an evil hour for the
                                    Republic, under a weak and wicked administration of the General
                                    Government, similar doctrines have again found utterance and
                                    support. But the immediate cause of the present crisis was the
                                    repeal of the Missouri compromise. That act of bad faith and
                                    worse statesmanship, that sin against the cause of freedom and
                                    the cause of peace, raised the storm which now threatens to
                                    destroy the freest, happiest and grandest government upon the
                                    earth. Another cause which has contributed largely to the
                                    present state of things in the South is this: Appeals are made
                                    by speeches and papers sent from the North, and freely
                                    circulated in the Southern States, conveying a false impression
                                    as to the objects, aims and doctrines of the great body of the
                                    Northern people. The answer to these incendiary and treasonable
                                    appeals is never suffered to reach the Southern States, and
                                    hence, many honestly believe that a large and organized party
                                    exists at the North, banded together to make war upon the
                                    interests and institutions of the Southern people, when every
                                    intelligent man here knows that no such party does or can exist.
                                    If secession in South Carolina be treason, and no one doubts but
                                    that it is, to aid and abet secession in other parts of the
                                    Republic is no less treason. If the South has her peculiar
                                    grievances, the North also has many and just causes of
                                    complaint. Many of her citizens have been deprived of property,
                                    liberty and life without evidence, without trial, without crime. Mob violence
                                    has perpetrated such outrages upon American citizens as would
                                    lead inevitably to a state of war if committed by the subjects
                                    of a foreign power. If permanent peace is to be restored to our
                                    unhappy and distracted country, it must be done by the removal
                                    of all real causes of offense, North or South. 

                                 The doctrine of secession, peaceable or forcible, now or at any
                                    other time, is a dangerous heresy, fraught with all the terrible
                                    consequences of civil war and bloodshed, and leading directly to
                                    the utter ruin of all our free institutions. This heresy has not
                                    yet poisoned the public sentiment of Indiana, and may God in his
                                    kind providence put afar off the evil day which shall witness
                                    its prevalence amongst us. I most sincerely believe, and am
                                    proud to declare, that the people of Indiana of all parties are
                                    true to the Constitution, and loyal to the Union; and that they
                                    will always be in the future as they have shown themselves to
                                    have been in the past, willing to yield a ready and cheerful
                                    obedience to all the requirements of the Constitution and laws
                                    of the United States, and to maintain and uphold at all times,
                                    under all circumstances, and at every hazard, the glorious form
                                    of free government, under which we live. The people of our noble
                                    State, with very few exceptions, are, I think, resolved to
                                    support the President of the United States in the free exercise
                                    of his constitutional powers, with the manliness and courage
                                    worthy of a free people. The f people of Indiana fully
                                    appreciate the importance of the Union, and all the blessings
                                    which it confers upon us as a nation. They do not believe that
                                    secession or nullification can furnish a remedy for any
                                    political evil, present, past or to come; they are resolved to
                                    transmit to the coming ages undiminished, the rich inheritance
                                    of freedom, civilization and glory, bought for us by the blood
                                    of the Fathers. The light of no single star which blazes on our
                                    national flag shall ever be dimmed by the unconstitutional
                                    action of either the people or Legislature of our noble
                                    commonwealth.

                                A voluntary and prompt repeal of all State legislation, (either
                                    by Northern or Southern States,) contrary to the letter or
                                    spirit of the Constitution and intended to defeat the execution
                                    of any of the laws of Congress, would be a peace-offering worthy
                                    of a great, intelligent and free people, and would be hailed
                                    with joy by every patriot in the land. Indiana has not now, and
                                    never had, any such legislation upon her statute books.

                                Whatever may be the condition of public sentiment in other
                                    sections of the Union, the people of our State would favor an
                                    amicable settlement of the existing difficulties between the
                                    different parts of the Republic; but such settlement, to be
                                    permanent and final, must be based upon measures equal and just
                                    in their operation, and alike honorable to all portions of our
                                    common country. 

                                In all the official relations of Indiana with her sister States,
                                    I hope her conduct will be characterized by courtesy and
                                    fraternal feeling, and that we shall cheerfully and promptly
                                    yield to them all their just rights as equals under the
                                    Constitution, and that in all our actions as a State or as
                                    individuals, we shall be governed by a high sense of justice,
                                    and by a sincere desire to advance the peace and prosperity of
                                    the people of all the States in the Confederacy. While we are
                                    prepared to respect and observe all the just rights of the
                                    citizens of all other Strtes, we should be careful to assert,
                                    maintain and protect all the rights of our own citizens at home
                                    and abroad. Standing as the main pillars which support our noble
                                    Christian civilization and our boasted freedom, there are
                                    certain inestimable rights which belong to every citizen of the
                                    United States by the laws of God and man. These rights rise in
                                    importance immeasurably above all party triumphs and party
                                    creeds, all local laws and false political theories. The liberty
                                    of speech, the freedom of the press, the freedom of religious
                                    worship under just and reasonable laws must and will be
                                    maintained and perpetuated by the people of these United States,
                                    in defiance of all opposition, and even by the free use of the
                                    sword, if all other means should fail.

                                In conclusion, Senators and Representatives, I rest in the firm
                                    belief that you will labor dilligently and successfully in the
                                    discharge of your difficult and important duties; and that the
                                    results of our legislation will promote the general welfare of
                                    the State, and improve the condition of the various public and
                                    private interersts confided to your care by the people of
                                    Indiana; and to that end may all your deliberations be guided by
                                    "that wisdom which cometh down from on high."
                                HENRY S. LANE. 

                                 The PRESIDENT of the Senate now expressed his thanks for the
                                    consideration extended to him while he had enjoyed the honor of
                                    Presiding over the Senate, and announced his retirement, in
                                    connection with the introduction to that body ef his Excellency,
                                    the Lieutenaut Governor elect, the Hon. Oliver P. Morton, who,
                                    under the constitution, becomes ex officio,
                                    President of the Senate.

                                His Excellency Lieut. Governor MORTON, having received the oath
                                    of his office at the hand of the same official qualifying the
                                    the Governor, desired, through the Senate, to tender his sincere
                                    thanks to the people for calling him to preside over their
                                    deliberations, and entered at once upon his duties, and added
                                    that he would endeavor to perform his duty faithfully and
                                    impartially in the Senate ; but having no experience in such a
                                    position, and but limited knowledge of parliamentary law, he
                                    should be obliged to rely on their kindness and assistance to
                                    enable him suitably to discharge the obligations which he this
                                    day assumed.

                                He then added officially: The object of the joint committee
                                    having been accomplished, Senators will now return to their
                                    Chamber. 

                            
                            

                            
                                SENATE MESSAGE-ELECTION OF U.S. SENATOR

                                 A message from the Senate by Mr. Sec'y Tyner, announced that
                                    that body had concurred in the resolution of the House to go
                                    into the election of the U. S. Senator next Wednesday at 2
                                    o'clock. 
                            
                            

                            
                                PRINTING THE MESSAGES.

                                 Mr. CAMERON submitted an order to print 5,000 copies of Governor
                                    Lane's inaugural and 2,000
                                    copies in the German language, for the use of the House of
                                    Representatives.

                                Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend by adding the same number of copies
                                    of the message of Ex-Governor Hammond, less the 500 copies
                                    heretofore ordered.

                                The amendment was accepted, and the order made accordingly.

                                Mr. STOTSENBURG introduced a bill [R. K. 30.] to amend the 78th
                                    section of the practice act of June 17, 1852; which was passed
                                    to the second reading to-morrow.

                                And then the House adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         IN SENATE.

                        
                            TUESDAY, January 15,1861.
                        

                        The LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR called the Senate to order, and after the reading
                            of the Journal, laid before the Senate a communication from the
                            Doorkeeper, stating that the Sentinel and Journal Companies refused to receive the subscription of the
                            Senate to their daily papers upon the terms dictated by the Senate on
                            yesterday.

                        The LIEUT. GOVERNOR announced the committee of reception and
                            correspondence with Hon. A. Lincoln, on the part of the Senate to be
                            Senators March, Anthony, Steele, Conner, Line, and Hamilton.

                        Mr. MURRAY. I am instructed by a portion of my constituents to lay before
                            the Senate of Indiana, a series of resolutions, which I send to the
                            Clerk's desk.

                        [The resolutions are fourteen in number, as adopted by a meeting in
                            Goshen, Elkhart county, on the 5th inst., reciting that in casting their
                            votes for Abraham Lincoln for President of the United States, they were
                            actuated by a high sense of duty ; giving expression to Union loving
                            sentiments; protesting against the spread of slavery; sustaining the
                            conduct of Major Anderson at Fort Sumpter, &c., &c.,
                            &c.]

                        The resolutions were referred to the Committee on Federal
                                Relations.

                         Mr. RAY. I have a document I desire to submit for the consideration of
                            the Senate; and I am somewhat uncertain as to whether it is in order.
                            While it is a memorial, it is at the same time a joint resolutiona
                            document, sir, which I think will form a fit response to the very
                            extraordinary message which we heard yesterday from His Excellency the
                            Governor in the other end of the Capitol. A document, sir, which I
                            think, in view of the fact that the President elect is soon, as we learn
                            from a resolution adopted by this and the other branch of the
                            Legislature, to pass through the capital of Indiana, on his way to
                            Washington to be inaugurated, is appropriate at this time. It is a
                            fitting response also, sir, I think to the resolutions which we have
                            just heard read at the Secretary's desk. At a time like this, sir, when
                            the fabric of our Government is trembling around our heads, it is
                            fitting-

                         Mr. WAGNER. (Interrupting,) Mr. President, what is the question before
                            the Senate ? 

                         The LIEUT. GOV. I would suggest that there is nothing before the
                            Senate.

                        Mr. RAY. With all due deference to the gentleman raising the point of
                            order, it is a rule recognized in deliberative bodies that when a party
                            offers a resolution, and before it is read at the desk, he may explain
                            its object and purpose.

                        The LIEUT. GOV. The right of explanation I recognize.

                        Mr. RAY. I was going on to explain that this document is intended as a
                            declaration by the Senate of Indiana, and also by the General Assembly
                            of Indiana, if the House concur, of the sentiments which they hold in
                            relation to the crisis which is upon the Federal Government. Without
                            then troubling the Senate with any further remark than simply to say
                            that we think the conservative sentiments that are declared in the
                            preamble and resolutions should actuate all parties in the land, and are
                            the sentiments alone upon which this Federal Union can be preserved, I
                            submit the document.

                        The LIEUT. GOV. decided the resolutions to be out of order at this time. 

                        
                            STATIONERY.
                             Mr. ANTHONY, from the select committee appointing to provide a plan
                                for the procurement and proper distribution of stationery for the
                                use of the Senate, submitted a report in writing directing the State
                                Librarian to procure the stationery, and to deal it out upon the
                                written order of Senators-blanks for that purpose to be printed.

                            Mr. SLACK suggested an amendment that blanks be printed, with a bond
                                and security clause, for the good behavior of Senators during the
                                session. [Laughter.]

                            Mr. SLACK and Mr. TARKINGTON opposed, and Mr. CRAVENS sustained, the
                                report of the committee.

                            Mr. MURRAY offered as a substitute for the report a plan by which
                                each Senator shall be charged with the stationery he procures the
                                same as was in force last session.

                            The substitute on motion by Mr. ANTHONY was laid on the table-yeas
                                28, nays 18.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB and Mr. MARCH favored the adoption of the committee
                                report-the latter with an amendment that the Librarian procure
                                stationey from the Secretary of State.

                            Mr, ANTHONY accepted the amendment.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend by providing that the Secretary of the
                                Senate procure the stationery for the use of the Senate.

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT the amendment was laid on the table.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER the report was adopted, with an amendment
                                that the Librarian make a report to the Senate every two weeks. 
                        
                        
                        

                        
                            RULES AND ORDERS.
                             Mr. LINE, from the select committee on the revision of
                                    rules, reported no amendment to the rules of the last
                                session ; but several joint rules with a recommendation that 200
                                copies be indexed and printed for the use of the Senate.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER the report was adopted with an amendment,
                                including the standing committees and order of business. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEWSPAPERS FOR MEMBERS.
                             Mr. SLACK offered a resolution directing the Doorkeeper to procure
                                three copies each of the Daily Sentinel and Daily Journal, and two each of the Free Press and Volksblatt-two of each
                                paper to be enveloped and stamped.

                            Mr. STONE moved to amend by striking out the word "three," and
                                inserting the word "one."

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to amend the amendment, by providing that each
                                Senator may subscribe for blank copies of any of the city papers,
                                report his choice to the Senate, and that they be paid for out of
                                the State Treasury, at a rate not exceeding the price paid at the
                                last session.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL favored this latter proposition, and would like to see
                                the blank filled with six copies, four of them stamped.

                            Mr. JOHNSON made an ineffectual motion ayes 13, nays 33-to lay the
                                amendment to the amendment on the table.

                            Mr. Newcomb's amendment was agreed to.

                            Mr. Stone's amendment as amended by Mr. Newcomb was agreed
                                to-affirmative 29.

                            Mr. LINE moved to fill the blank with the word "six."

                            Mr. MELLETT was opposed to the amendment to the resolution. He made
                                an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution and pending amendments
                                on the table.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB explained that Senators preferring to take weekly papers
                                would be entitled to thirty-six.

                            Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual motion to refer the matter to a select
                                committee of three. He then moved to fill the blank with the word
                                "nine."

                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, this amendment to the amendment was laid on
                                the table-yeas 32, nays 11.

                            Mr. SLACK moved to amend by adding three copies of the Free Press and the Volksblatt, in
                                addition to the number prescribed.

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY this amendment was laid on the table-yeas 31,
                                nays 13.

                            Mr. Line's motion to amend was agreed to by yeas 31, nays 14.

                            The resolution, as amended, was then adopted by yeas 24, nays 20.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
                             Was received, announcing the passage by that body of a joint
                                resolution [H. R. 9] in regard to the postage, pay and mileage of
                                members of the General Assembly; and a joint resolution [H. R. 11]
                                in relation to the free navigation of the Mississippi. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EMPLOYEES OF THE SENATE.
                             Mr. MELLETT offered a resolution, which was adopted, requiring
                                officers of the Senate to report to-morrow the number of assistants
                                employed by each, and the duties discharged by them. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CALUMET DAM.
                             Mr. TURNER submitted a preamble and resolutions, setting forth the
                                grievances of the inhabitants of Lake county, in regard to the dam
                                across Calumet River, asking the Judiciary
                                    Committee to act in the matter; adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CLAIMS AGAINST THE SENATE.
                             Mr. BEESON offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Finance to allow no claims
                                submitted within ten days of the close of the session, unless
                                accrued within that time. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SETTLEMENT WITH THE STATE AUDITOR.
                             Mr. TARKINGTON offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing
                                the appointment of a committee of three to examine the books of the
                                retiring State Auditor, and report the result of their
                                investigations to the Senate. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RE-DISTRICTING THE STATE.
                             Mr. WILLIAMS offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing
                                the appointment of a committee of one from each Congressional
                                District for the purpose of re-districting the State for Senatorial
                                purposes. 
                        
                        

                        
                            VOTERS IN SCHOOL MEETINGS.
                             Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Education to enquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the school law as to define who are
                                entitled to vote at school meetings. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CLERKS TO COMMITTEES.
                             Mr. MELLETT offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing that
                                no committee shall employ a clerk without authority of the Senate.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            IN RELATION TO EXECUTIONS.
                             Mr. FERGUSON offered a resolution, which was adopted, enquiring of
                                the Judiciary Committee what legislation is
                                necessary in regard to proceedings supplementary to executions. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A RESOLUTION OF THANKS.
                             Mr. LINE offered a resolution, which was adopted unanimously,
                                tendering thanks to Hon. John R. Cravens for the able and impartial
                                manner in which he has presided over the deliberations of the Senate
                                during the present session. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                             Mr. HAMILTON. I offer the following joint resolution, [S. 3.] These
                                resolutions are forwarded to me by a gentleman of high standing, and
                                high literary attainments, who 
                                has a deep and abiding interest in the affairs of the country. He is
                                anxious they should be presented to the country.

                            The resolutions,which are very lengthy,were read and referred under
                                the rule to the Committee on Federal
                                Relations.

                            Mr. RAY then submitted the series of resolutions on the State of the
                                Union, which he offered early in the morning hour: and they were
                                read. Joint Resolution [H. R. 4.] 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            To the Honorable the Senate and House of
                                                Representatives of the United States in Congress
                                                assembled;
                                        

                                         The State of Indiana, by her Senators and
                                            Representatives in General Assembly convened,
                                            respectfully memorializes and represents to your
                                            honorable bodies that she views with the utmost anxiety
                                            the perilous condition of the American Union; that she,
                                            moved by an imperative sense of duty to our common
                                            country in addressing the Congress of the United States
                                            on the portentious condition of public affairs,
                                            imploring prompt action on some scheme of pacification
                                            that will preserve the Federal Union and restore
                                            tranquility to the country.

                                        Entertaining, as your memorialist does, the most profound
                                            conviction of the blessings, as well as the threatened
                                            dangers of the Union, she is ready to make great
                                            sacrifices to perpetuate the one and avert the
                                            other.

                                        At a time like this, when the foundations of the National
                                            government are shaken and its pillars crumbling away, it
                                            is the solemn duty of every State in the American Union
                                            to discard all specious fallacies in regard to
                                            slavery-all blind resentment for supposed agressions-all
                                            pride and sectional animosities, and all partisan
                                            criminations, and forgetting the mutual provocations of
                                            the past, bring all offensive doctrines and platforms,
                                            all abstract theories aud barren creeds, as sacrifices
                                            upon the altar of a common country.

                                        The State of Indiana, not unmindful of her position and
                                            duty in this respect as a conservative State of the
                                            Union, solemnly invokes the wisdom and patriotism of the
                                            national Congress to the noble work of fostering loyalty
                                            to the Federal Government, strengthening the bonds of
                                            the Union, removing all disturbing causes, staying the
                                            tide of revolution and giving a peaceful solution to the
                                            great problem of the age.

                                        The labors and sacrifices of an immortal ancestry in
                                            devising this beautiful and complicated form of Federal
                                            Government, the experiment of civilized man for
                                            self-government, the happiness, the prosperity, the
                                            civilization and the destiny of the American race hang,
                                            it is believed, upon the speedy and effective action of
                                            the American Congress. Events of an age are crowding
                                            themselves into hours, events of an incalculable
                                            magnitude, fraught with the issues of Union or Disunion,
                                            peace or war, the rise or fall of a great empire.

                                        The State of Indiana can not but deplore the sectional
                                            madness and party infatuation that would suffer the
                                            dismemberment of this confederacy on any theory that the
                                            supposed integrity of platform is of greater consequence
                                            than the existence of this Government. 

                                         She takes great pride at this critical junction in
                                            declaring to her sister States that the records other
                                            past legislation are not sustained by nullifying laws or
                                            personal liberty bills.

                                        While the State of Indiana is firmly attached to the
                                            Union of the States, and regards the un broken peace of
                                            the country as an indispensible condition of its
                                            continuance, and while she denies the asserted
                                            Constitutional right of any State to secede from the
                                            Federal Union, and while she recognizes a plain duty in
                                            the Federal Government to enforce the Federal laws, and
                                            maintain Federal supremacy over Federal property, yet
                                            she recognizes the duty and policy of moderation and
                                            forbearance on the part of the Federal Government toward
                                            the seceding States, and that at this junction, only the
                                            civil powers of the Government can safely be used to
                                            enforce the laws, and in behalf of the Union and
                                            peaceful enforcement of the laws, the State of Indiana
                                            exhorts the National Government to second, by
                                            legislation, the efforts of the Executive to enforce the
                                            laws by civil process.

                                        And while the State of Indiana recognizes, as a last
                                            resort, the inalienable right of revolution by a State
                                            for sufficient cause, and she does not regard the
                                            election of Mr. Lincoln to the Presidency alone a
                                            sufficient cause for revolution, yet in frankness and
                                            justice to her sister States, she is bound to say, that
                                            the aggregate of grievances which the South has
                                            sustained at the hands of the North, including the
                                            election of a sectional President, upon a simple
                                            anti-slavery issue, does furnish good ground of alarm to
                                            the slaveholding States, and justifies them in demanding
                                            concessions and new guarantees for the safety of their
                                            institution.

                                        The State of Indiana, therefore, not wholly despairing of
                                            the Republic, but greatly at a loss for an adequate
                                            remedy for the impending catastrophe of a disrupted
                                            Government, regards with great favor the series of
                                            propositions lately submitted by the Hon. John J.
                                            Crittenden to the Senate of the United States, as
                                            furnishing a basis for an adjustment which shall
                                            withdraw the further agitation of slavery from the
                                            National councils, as well as from Northern politics;
                                            correct public sentiment in the North; secure the return
                                            of the disloyal States; save the land of Washington from
                                            a sanguinary war; preserve the honor and prestige of the
                                            American name, and perpetuate the liberties of a people
                                            who have wantonly put them at stake to abide the
                                            fortunes of Revolution, and the arbitrament of the
                                            sword.

                                        For these, among other reasons, the State of Indiana
                                            prays for prompt action by the Congress of the United
                                            States in the passage of said propositions, looking to
                                            an amendment of the Federal Constitution, to meet the
                                            exigencies of the case; and further, the State of
                                            Indiana looking to the possible defeat of said scheme of
                                            adjustment, and looking to the fearful progress of the
                                            revolution, which must inevitably carry with it the
                                            pillars of the Constitution and insure the horrors of
                                            civil war, she prays, in that event, that your Honorable
                                            bodies will unite in calling a National Convention of
                                            the States to consider amendments to the Constitution of
                                            the United State. In conclusion, your memorialist
                                            repeats that the solution of the impending calamities is
                                            to be found in conciliation and compromise, and not in
                                            the power of the sword, which, if once drawn, will never
                                            be returned until
                                            every State in the Union has become a blood-stained
                                            desert. She asks that the people of the nation may have
                                            an opportunity of speaking with their own lips, and
                                            their own tongues, and from their own hearts, and not
                                            through the doubtful and uncertain medium of political
                                            oracles. Therefore, 

                                        Resolved by the House of Representatives,
                                                the Senate concurring, That copies of the
                                            foregoing memorial, certified by the President and
                                            Secretary of the Senate, and by the Speaker and Clerk of
                                            the House of Representatives, be and they are hereby
                                            directed to be forwarded to Washington City, and one
                                            copy to the Vice President of the United States, and the
                                            other to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, to
                                            be by them laid before the bodies over which they
                                            respectively preside.

                                        Mr. JOHNSON moved to suspend the rule referring the
                                            resolution to the Committee on Federal
                                                Relations.

                                        On motion of Mr. WAGNER,this motion was laid on the
                                            table-yeas 25, nays 21.

                                        The joint resolution was then referred, under the rule,
                                            to the Committee on Federal
                                            Relations.

                                        Mr. SLACK offered a resolution, directing the
                                                Committee on Federal Relations to
                                            report back the joint resolution just referred to them,
                                            on to-morrow, without amendment.

                                        On motion by Mr. WAGNER-yeas 25, nays 21-this resolution
                                            was laid on the table.

                                        And then-

                                        On motion, the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             The LIEUT. GOV. laid before the Senate the printed reports of each
                                of the Benevolent Institutions of the State, which were laid upon
                                the table without reading. 


                            
                                POSTAGE STAMPS FOR THE LIEUT. GOVERNOR.
                                 Mr. BEARSS offered a resolution which was adopted by consent,
                                    that the Doorkeeper purchase three dollars worth of postage
                                    stamps for the use of the President of the Senate. 
                            
                            

                            
                                STATIONERY FOR REPORTERS.
                                 Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was rejected upon a
                                    division, allowing the same privileges as respects stationery to
                                    reporters admitted to seats on the floor of the Senate to report
                                    its proceedings as are allowed members and officers. 
                            
                            

                            
                                BANK AND CANAL REPORTS.
                                 The LIEUT. GOV. laid before the Senate the report of the
                                    Trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal, and the report of the
                                    officers of the Bank of the State, and its Branches ; which were
                                    laid on the table without reading and 100 copies ordered
                                    printed. 
                            
                            

                            
                                HOUSE OF CORRECTION FOR JUVENILES.
                                 Mr. BLAIR offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing
                                    the appointment of a select committee of five to inquire
                                    concerning the procurement of a site for a House of Refuge for
                                    juvenile offenders. 
                            
                            

                            
                                A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
                                 Was received announcing the passage by that body of a joint
                                    resolution [H. R. 8.] instructing and requesting our
                                    Representatives in Congress to take such action as will secure
                                    to actual settlers on the public lands a homestead of 160 acres.
                                    Also a joint resolution [II. R. 7.] instructing and requesting
                                    Representatives in Congress to procure further aid or relief for
                                    the soldiers of the war of 1812. 
                            
                            

                            
                                BILLS INTRODUCED.
                                 The following new propositions were submitted, and passed the
                                    first reading.

                                By Mr. ANTHONY: [S. 28.] For the organization of the Indiana
                                    Militia, prescribing the duties of certain officers, providing
                                    for a military fund and its disbursement. &c., and repealing
                                    all existing laws.

                                On motion by Mr. ANTHONY the rules were suspended-yeas 34, nays
                                    8-and the bill read by title only, the first and second time;
                                    and 300 copies ordered printed.

                                By Mr. TURNER: [S. 29.] To amend section 14 of an act defining
                                    misdemeanors c., approved June 1(5, 1852; increasing the
                                    punishment by adding imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                                    twelve months.

                                By Mr. BLAIR: [S. 30.] To amend sections 4, 5, 18, 20, 21, and 22
                                    of an act regulating general elections, c., approved June 7,
                                    1852.

                                [This bill amends the law now regulating general elections so as
                                    to require a residence in the township of thirty days
                                    immediately preceding any election to eniitle any person to vote
                                    at such election-defines what shall constitute a residence-and
                                    the manner of testing the qualifications of persons offering to
                                    vote and whose votes are challenged, &c., &c.]

                                By Mr. HAMILTON: [S. 31.] To perfect title to purchasers of
                                    Railroads sold by foreclosure or other proceedings in law or
                                    equity, or in pursuance to provisions of mortgages or deeds of
                                    trust, &c., and to enable them to organize corporations and
                                    assume corporate powers.

                                 On motion of Mr. ANTHONY the rules were suspended-yeas 42, nays
                                    0-and the bill was read by title only.

                                By Mr. MURRAY: [S. 32.] Changing the law for the assessment of
                                    property, the levying and collection of taxes, &c., as
                                    follows: 

                                 1st. Township assessors to make their return at the March
                                    instead of the June session. 2d. Taxes for county and township
                                    purposes to be levied at the March session, enabling the auditor
                                    to complete his duplicate by the 15th Sept., also to have the
                                    road tax worked out in the spring. 3d. Settlements of
                                    collections of delinquency to be made 15th August instead of
                                    October. 4th. The period of tax-paying without penalty to
                                    terminate last Saturday in 
                                    December. 5th. Settlement of auditor and treasurer to commence
                                    first Monday in January. 6th. On fourth Monday of January,
                                    auditor to forward abstract of settlement to Auditor of State,
                                    by mail, and abstract of school taxes to Superintendent of
                                    Public Instruction. 7th. The auditor and superintendent
                                    determine the amount of school money for each county, and
                                    forward statement to county auditor. 8th. Treasurer makes his
                                    settlement by the first Monday in March. 9th. On second Monday
                                    in March pays over school money to township.

                                By Mr. WILSON : [S. 33.] To punish employees of railroad
                                    companies for embezzling or stealing railroad tickets or moneys
                                    belonging to such companies, and prescribing the mode of
                                    punishment thereof.

                                [A message from the House announced the passage of a resolution
                                    authorizing a joint committee-three on the part of the Senate
                                    and four on the part of the House-to apportion the State for
                                    representative and senatorial purposes.].

                                By Mr. WOLFE : [S. 34.] To amend sec. 2 and 5 of the liquor law,
                                    approved March 5, 1859; construing "intoxicating liquors" to
                                    mean spurious and distilled liquore only, and reducing license
                                    from $50 to $20.

                                By Mr. WAGNER: [S. 35.] To apportion Senators and Representatives
                                    for the next six years.

                                By Mr. MILLER: [S. 36.] to amend sec. 49 of an act for the
                                    opening, location and change of highways, approved June 17,
                                    1852, so as to facilitate the opening of private roads.

                                By Mr. WOLFE: [S. 37,] to amend sec. 1 of an act relative to the
                                    salaries of public officers, &c., approved March 5, 1859, so
                                    as to reduce the salary of the President of the Sinking Fund
                                    from $3,000 to $1,500.

                                By Mr. LINE, as chairman of a select committee, [S. 38,]
                                    authorizing county auditors to purchase dockets for justices of
                                    the peace, to pay for the same out of the county treasury, and
                                    providing for the safe keeping of said dockets.

                                By Mr. FERGUSON : [S. 39.] To give the same force and effect to
                                    surveys made by city surveyors in certain cases, as if made by
                                    the county surveyor.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: [S. 40.] For the protection of fish; making it
                                    unlawful to catch fish in the inland waters of the State by drag
                                    net, heel net, seine, or obstructing in any way the transit of
                                    fish up or down stream.

                                And then-

                                On motion the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            TUESDAY, January 15,1861.
                        

                         The House met at 9 o'clock.

                        On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, the Hon. Cutler S. Dobbins, ths member elect
                            from the county of Martin, came forward, presented his credentials,
                            received the oath of a member and took his seat.

                        The journal of yesterday having been read-

                        Mr. DAVIS said we had agreed to take upwards of 10,600 copies of the
                            Governor's Messages, and he was apprehensive that they would not be
                            distributed before the end of the session. We might get 15 or 16 copies
                            apiece, and the balance would remain in the stationery rooms. He would
                            vote to move a re-consideration. If we could get them in due time, he
                            would like to take them.

                        The SPEAKER. There is nothing before the House. 

                        
                            THE CLERICAL AND POLICE FORCE OF THE HOUSE.
                             The SPEAKER laid before the House communications from the Clerk and
                                Doorkeeper respectively responding to the order moved by Mr. Packard
                                yesterday.

                            The Doorkeeper reported that he had appointed John Johnson principal
                                assistant Door-keeper, and other asssstants, viz: Samuel Hazard, J.
                                N. Johnson, R. A. Vance, Jno. Campbell; also, David Hurley and B. C.
                                Hoyt, firemen, and Erastus Jennerson, messenger. His employees were
                                sufficient until the Committees should be organized.

                            The Clerk reported names, but that he had not yet fully organized his
                                clerical force. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMITTEE OF THIRTEEN.
                             The SPEAKER announced the Committee of Thirteen
                                to consider all propositions on the State of the Union, viz Messrs.
                                Bundy,; Veatch, Jenkinson, Heffren, Branham, Prosser,Grover,
                                Burgess, Newman, Knowlton, McLean, Hord and Hull. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INSURANCE LAW.
                             The SPEAKER also announced the Special Committee under Mr. Packard's
                                order to consider the Governor's recommendation with respect to the
                                law of Insurance, viz: Messrs, Packard, Hopkins, Lee, Pelts and
                                Bryant.

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Mr. Roberts submitted joint resolution [12] rehearsing
                                            that whereas, treason, as defined by the Constitution of
                                            the United States, exists in one or more of the States
                                            of this Union; and whereas, the insurgent State of South
                                            Carolina, by seizing the Postoffice, Custom house,
                                            moneys and fortifications of the General Government, and
                                            by firing into a vessel ordered by the Government to
                                            convey troops and provision to Fort Sumter in that
                                            State, has virtually declared war; and whereas, the
                                            forts and property of the Untied States Government in
                                            Georgia, Alabama and Louisiana have been unlawfully
                                            seized, with treasonable and hostile intentions; and
                                            whereas, certain Senators and Congressmen avow and
                                            sanction their treasonable acts ; therefore resolved,
                                            &c., 1.-That being profoundly impressed with the
                                            value and importance of the American Union, and being
                                            determined to preserve it at all hazards, we hail with
                                            joy the recent bold, firm, dignified and patriotic
                                            position assumed in the special message of the President
                                            to the  Congress of
                                            the United States, in regard to the rebellious
                                            proceedings of the State of South Carolina; That we
                                            tender him, through the Chief Magistrate of our own
                                            State, whatever aid in men and money may be required to
                                            enable him to enforce the laws and uphold the authority
                                            of the Federal Government, and in defence of the Union,
                                            which has conferred happiness and prosperity on the
                                            American people-renewing the pledge given and redeemed
                                            by our fathers, we are ready to devote "our lives, our
                                            fortunes, and our sacred honors" in upholding the Union
                                            and the Constitution.

                                        2. That the Union-loving citizens and representatives of
                                            the States of Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North
                                            Carolina, Kentucky, Missouri and Tennessee, who labor
                                            with devoted courage and patriotism to withhold their
                                            States from the vortex of secession, are entitled to the
                                            gratitude and admiration of the whole American
                                            people.

                                        3. That the Governor forward a copy of these resolutions
                                            to the President of the United States, to each of our
                                            Senators and Representatives in Congress, and to each of
                                            the Governors of the States of this Union, with a
                                            request that the same be laid before their respective
                                            Legislatures. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. Roberts said : Mr. Speaker, these resolutions are a verbatim, copy of the resolutions which were unanimously
                                adopted by the New York Legislature on Friday of last week. I
                                devoutly hope, Sir, that the Legislature of Indiana will adopt these
                                resolutions, and then join hands with the General Assembly of the
                                "Empire Strte" in rebuking treason, and in defence of the liberties
                                of the people. I move, Sir, that they be referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            The resolutions were referred accordingly. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.
                             Mr. FRAZIER introduced a bill [31] to repeal sec. 15 of the act
                                concerning promissory notes and bills of exchange, approved May 12,
                                1852, also to repeal sections 881 and 445 of the Practice act,
                                approved June 18,1852, so as to provide a uniform rale for the sale
                                of property on execution or other process:

                            Mr. BUNDY: [32.] To provide for the rights of married women in cases
                                of the sale of lands on execution, or by virtue of any judicial
                                proceeding, and in all other cases where the wife does not consent
                                to the sale :

                            Mr. McLEAN: [33.] To perfect the title of purchasers of railroads by
                                foreclosing mortgage or other proceeding either in law or equity,
                                &c., and to enable them to organize corporations and exercize
                                corporate powers:

                            [A message from the Senate announced that that body had concurred in
                                the House resolution of invitation to the Honorable Abraham Lincoln
                                to visit the General Assembly.]

                            Mr. McLEAN, as this was a long bill, to save time, he moved to
                                suspend the rules, so that it may be read the second time by its
                                title now.

                            The SPEAKER (Mr. Sherman in the chair) stated the constitutional
                                provisition requiring the yeas and nays on this motion, and they
                                were orderd ; being taken, resulted-yeas 45, nays 46, so (two-thirds
                                not voting in the affirmative) the order was not suspended.

                            Mr. ORR: [34.] Authorizing any and all persons to prevent any affray,
                                or an assault and battery, or breach of the peace, and providing
                                punishment for any one holding back or preventing any person from
                                hindering an affray:

                            Which were severally passed to the second reading to-morrow. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RIGHT OF TRANSIT WITH SLATES.
                             Mr. WARRUM submitted a resolution directing the Judiciary
                                    Committee to inquire whether there is now in force in
                                the State of Indiana any law authorizing slaveholders to pass
                                through this State with their slaves, and if not, that the committee
                                report a bill giving the right of transit to slaveholders with their
                                slaves.

                            Mr. FISHER objected to the imperative terms of the resolution.

                            Mr. LANE moved to lay it on the table, but did not press the
                                motion.

                            Mr. FRASIER moved to refer it to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen.

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG. Why refer this to a Committee to consider national
                                affairs ? He desired to get rid of the matter now, and proposed to
                                amend so that the committee report as to the expediency of such a
                                bill.

                            The SPEAKER, The amendment is inadmissible.

                            Mr. PROSSER moved that it be referred to a select committee.

                            Mr. MOODY made a point of order against debate. There was a rule that
                                all resolutions of this character should go to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen without debate.

                            Mr. NEBEKER desired to keep this eternal nigger question out. It had
                                split the Democratic party, and he supposed gentlemen on the other
                                side hoped it would split the Republican party. All he wanted was to
                                stop its discussion here.

                            Mr. PROSSER supposed the number five would be proper for the
                                amendment he had offered. He concurred with the gentleman from
                                Warren in his desire to get rid of the nigger question.

                            Mr. NEBEKER desired to amend so as to take away its imperative
                                character.

                            Mr. BUNDY. The resolution was imperativeit requires the Committee to
                                report a bill. It was immaterial what committee received itit was
                                imperative to bring in a bill. He moved that the resolution and
                                amendments be laid on the table.

                            The yeas and nays being demanded, ordered and taken on the question,
                                resultedyeas 59, nays 38. 

                            

                            So the resolution and amendments were laid on the table.

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.
                             Mr. CASON submitted a bill [35] to amend section 238 of the Practice
                                act of June 18. 1852, so as to admit parties in civil actions to
                                testify in their own behalf:

                            Mr. WOODHULL: [36.] For the relief of the heirs of Michael O Brien
                                deceased :

                            Mr. EDSON: [37.] To amend section 8 of the liquor law of 1859, and to
                                allow boards o commissioners to make locations of school-house
                                sites, and to erect and repair school-houses:

                            Which were severally passed to the second reading to-morrow.

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                            Mr. HOLCOMB submitted a joint resolution [14] being a memorial to
                                Congress on the State of the Union. [It is identical with that
                                printed in the Senate proceedings of this day submitted by Mr.
                                Ray.]

                            Mr. HEFFREN would make a statement that gentlemen might understrnd
                                the reason of a motion he desired to make. These resolutions were
                                the production and result of the Democratic cuacus of memkers last
                                night. He asked not to debate them, but that the question might be
                                taken on a motion to suspend the rule-the operation of the
                                resolution of the gentleman from Spencer, (Mr. Veatch,) and a vote
                                directly upon the adoption of the memorial. The paper should not be
                                regarded as coming from a party. It was in the name of the whole
                                body of the General Assembly.

                            Mr. BINGHAM concurred heartily with the gentlemen from Washington and
                                Harrison, that propositions looking to the condition of the country
                                at the present time ought not to be regarded as of a partizan
                                character. But the gentleman had announced that it was the united
                                voice of the Democratic party. Under these circumstances, when it
                                was asked to suspend a rule of the majority to enable gentlemen to
                                consider such a proposition, he objected.

                            Mr. HEFFREN did not regard it as a partizan proposition.

                            Mr. BINGHAM. But at the same time it was announced that it was
                                adopted by a party in caucus, lie saw no good reason for making the
                                exception sought in the case of this memorial. With the same
                                propriety other gentlemen might prepare other plans for the
                                adjustment of national disturbances, and insist that they should be
                                exempt from the operation of the resolution of the gentleman from
                                Spencer. He opposed all exemptions unhestitatingly, and insisted
                                that this matter should take the course of every resolution of a
                                similar character.

                            The SPEAKER decided Mr. Heffren's motion out of order. The Chair did
                                not understand Mr. Veatch's resolution as a rule of the House, and
                                the only way its effect could be obviated would be by repeal.

                            Mr. HEFFREN acquiesced. He had simply asked it as a matter of
                                courtesy.

                            Mr. MOORMAN submitted two resolution declaring that the provisions of
                                the Constitution are ample for the preservation of Union and
                                protection of all the national interests of the country; that it
                                needs to be obeyed rather than amended, and our release from our
                                present difficulties is to be looked fof in strenuous efforts to
                                preserve and protect public property and enforce laws, rather than
                                new guarantees for particular intent, or compromise, or
                                concession.

                            2. That all attempts to dissolve the or to overthrow the
                                Constitution, or even to call a convention under the present excite,
                                ment, are dangerous and illusory, and in the opinion of this House,
                                no compromise is practicable, and, therefore to the maintainance of
                                the existing Union and Constitution should be directed all the
                                energies of the government.

                            They were referred to the Committee of
                                Thirteen.Mr. PACKARD offered a resolution in reference
                                <o the inaugural of Governor Lane-regarding it as incendiary in
                                the present crisis, and as not representing the views of the people
                                of Indiana.

                            They took the same direction. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.
                             The SPEAKER laid before the House, the Report of the Trustees of the
                                Wabash and Erie Canal.

                            Mr. NEBEKER submitted an order that it be referred to the
                                    Committee on Canals and Internal
                                Improvements, and that 500 copies be printed.

                            Mr. JENKINSON proposed 2,000.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Why print it at all.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. We want to know by what means the canal is kept up. It
                                is a question of vast interest to us, but we ask only the usual
                                number. If the gentleman can spare any of his copies, let him send
                                them to the Wabash region.

                            Mr. Jenkinson's amendment was rejected.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. It seems unusual to refer a thing for a committee when
                                the House know nothing about it.

                            Mr. NEBEKER had received the report from the resident, trustee on the
                                part of the bondholders, and he had no doubt it was the report of
                                the trustees of the Wabash and Erie Canal. If the House would order
                                the printing, gentlemen could read it at their leisure.

                            Mr. BRANHAM desired the gentleman to withdraw the reference-he
                                desired merely to lay on the table and print.

                            Mr. NEBEKER acquiesced, and the order was made accordingly. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COLONEL JOHN VAWTER.
                             Mr. FEAGLER submitted an order rehearsing, that, whereas, Col. John
                                Vawter, the first U. S. Marshal for the District of Indiana, a
                                soldier in the war of 1812, and for many years a member of the
                                Legislature of the  State, now
                                in this city, Be it resolved, that he be invited to a seat inside of
                                the Hall during the time the remains in the city.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend by extending the invitation to all
                                soldiers of the war of 1812.

                            Mr. PARRETT would like to provide against the soldiers coming here
                                for the purpose of getting a seat.

                            Mr. FEAGLER was willing to accept the amendment of Mr. Heffren. Col.
                                Vawter was an old veteran. He received the appointment of Marshal of
                                Indiana from President Madison.

                            Mr. ORR did not consider that there was anything to prohibit these
                                characters from the floor.

                            Mr. PROSSER. It would give him pleasure to vote for the resolution.
                                Col. Vawter was his neighbor.

                            Mr. MOORMAN was willing to extend all honor to the soldiers of the
                                war of 1812, but there was danger of inviting a crowd.

                            Mr HEFFREN was willing to accept the invitation in all its
                                extent.

                            Under the operation of the previous question demanded by Mr. McLEAN,
                                the resolution was adopted as amended. 
                        
                        

                        
                            LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
                             Mr. FERGUSON asked and obtained leave of absence for Mr. Stephenson,
                                whose son died yesterday morning. 
                        
                        

                        
                            POSTAGE STAMPS
                             Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, from the Committee on
                                    Stationery, reported that in the apportionment of
                                postage stamps for members, each member must be minus one three cent
                                stamp for the cost of exchange on the gold to purchase them.

                            Mr. WOODHULL submitted a resolution, which was adopted, requesting
                                the Auditor of State to procure of the several county auditors a
                                statement of the whole amount for which warrants or orders were
                                drawn on the Treasury of their respective counties in favor of said
                                auditors for official services rendered by them, from the 18th of
                                June, 1859, to the 1st of June, 1860 ; and that he report the same
                                to this House.

                            Mr BRUCKER introduced a bill [H. R.38,] to amend sections 2, 4, 5, 6,
                                8 and 11 of the act to regulate the sale of liquors, approved March
                                5, 1859; which was passed to the second reading to-morrow.

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Mr. GRESHAM submitted a joint resolution, [14,] declaring
                                            that the people of this State still retain their
                                            affection for the Union inherited from the generation of
                                            men who achieved our liberties in the great struggle for
                                            independence, and secured them in that sacred instrument
                                            the Constitution, in which justice is established,
                                            domestic tranquility is insured, and the common defense
                                            and general welfare are provided for; and they regard
                                            its perpetuation as the only safe guaranty for the
                                            continuance of the wonderful prosperity and happiness
                                            which have led us to our present high position amongst
                                            the great powers of the earth; and they deny the right
                                            of any member of tin's confederacy to repudiate the
                                            Constitution made by all the people of the States, by
                                            seceding from the Union, and thereby disturbing the
                                            harmony and periling the happiness of the whole.

                                        2. That while they would not deny to any State a right
                                            guaranteed by the Constitution, they insist that the
                                            authority of the general government shall be maintained
                                            and the constitutional laws of Congress impartially
                                            enforced in all the States and Territories; and that the
                                            armed resistance to the execution thereof, on the part,
                                            of the citizens of any State is treason.

                                        3. That the people of Indiana are opposed to any
                                            interference by the Government or people of our State
                                            with the domestic institutions of another; that they
                                            ever have and always will maintain the same respect for
                                            the rights of other States which the zealously exact for
                                            their own ; that they will scrupulously discharge all
                                            their constitutional obligations toward sister States,
                                            and they demand a like observance of the same from the
                                            other States of the Union.

                                        4. That if any State of this Union has enactments on its
                                            statute books in conflict with the provisions of the
                                            Federal Constitution, or any of the laws of Congress
                                            passed in pursuance thereof, it is the duty of such
                                            State to repeal the same.

                                        5. That it is the duty of the Federal Government, and of
                                            the several States, to secure to the citizens of each
                                            State all the privileges and immunities of citizens of
                                            the several States as guaranteed in the Constitution,
                                            and a failure to discharge this obligation will destroy
                                            that harmony and paternal feeling which lie at the
                                            foundation of our free institutions.

                                        6. That the conduct of these patriotic men, who in the
                                            midst of the tide of disunion which is sweeping over a
                                            portion of our once happy country, still retain their
                                            affection for the Union and are bravely battling for the
                                            preservation of the authority of the General Government,
                                            excites our earnest sympathies and challenges our
                                            admiration.

                                        7. That, in view of the fact that a portion of the
                                            citizens of some of the States of this Union are in open
                                            armed rebellion against the power and authority and
                                            threaten the overthrow of the General Government, we
                                            hereby pledge, whenever necessary and demanded, in
                                            strict subordination to the civil authority, for the
                                            maintainance of the Constitution and laws of the General
                                            Government, the entire power and resources of the State
                                            of Indiana.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            


                            They were referred to the Committee of Thirteen.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            NEWSPAPERS.
                             Mr. BOBBINS, from the Special Committee on
                                    Newspapers, reported an order that the Door-keeper procure three copies of the
                                Daily Journal and the Daily Sentinel, two of which shall be enveloped and stamped;
                                also one copy of the Volksblatt and of the Free Press, both to be enveloped and stamped; also
                                one copy of the Weekly American-all to be placed
                                upon the desk of each member.

                            Mr. HEFFREN objected to the Free Press or account
                                of one of the articles in its last issue

                            Mr. FISHER proposed to strike out all except the Journal and Sentinel, which was accepted
                                by Mr. Heffren. But without coming to any conclusion thereon-

                            The House took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. MOODY demanded the previous question on the adoption of the
                                    Newspaper Committee's report, and the demand
                                was seconded by the House.

                            The SPEAKER. According to Jefferson's Manual the previous question
                                cuts off all amendments, which will not be the case under the rules
                                we will adopt.

                            Mr. HEFFREN demanded the yeas and nays, which being ordered and
                                taken, resulted-yeas 64, nays 32.

                            So the report was adopted.

                            Mr. FRASIER made an ineffectual effort to resolve the House into
                                    Committee of the Whole upon the consideration
                                of Ex-Governor Hammond's message. 

                            
                                POSTAGE STAMPS.
                                 On motion by Mr. BUNDY it was ordered that the Principal and
                                    Principal Assistant Clerk be allowed each three dollars' worth
                                    of postage stamps. 
                            
                            

                            
                                BANK REPORT.
                                 The SPEAKER laid before the House the report of the Bank of the
                                    State and the various Branches thereof.

                                On motion of Mr. BRANHAM it was ordered that they lie upon the
                                    table and 200 copies thereof be printed for the use of the
                                    House. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW BILLS.
                                 Mr. NEBEKER introduced a bill [39] to authorize the formation of
                                    new counties, to change county boundaries and to repeal all laws
                                    inconsistent therewith.

                                Mr. McCLURG. [40] To amend sec. 3 of the act providing for the
                                    protection of wild game, approved February 26, 1857.

                                Mr. NEWMAN. [41] To amend the 12th sec. of the act to authorize
                                    the construction of levees and drains, approved June 12th,
                                    1852.

                                Mr. HOLCOMB. [42] To authorize the Gibson County Circuit Court to
                                    hear testimony and make a decree in reference to the erection
                                    and sale of the county seminary of said county.

                                Mr. Williams : [43] To repeal the act to regulate the license of
                                    pilots in the falls of the Ohio, requiring bond and security of
                                    such pilots, &c., approved June 15, 1852; also to repeal the
                                    act amendatory thereof, approved Dec. 22, 1852.

                                Mr. McLEAN: [44] To amend the first section of the act providing
                                    for the management and disposal of the estates of persons who
                                    have absented themselves from their usual place of residence and
                                    gone to parts unknown, approved March 5, 1839.

                                Which were severally passed to their second reading to-morrow.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                STANDING RULES.
                                 On motion of Mr. HEFFREN the House took up the consideration of
                                    the report of the special committee on rules and joint rules and
                                    adopted it, exepting the third clause of the 16th section of the
                                    joint rules; which was referred back to the Committee.

                                Mr. HORTON submitted a resolution to the effect that no part of
                                    the expense to be incurred on account of the invitation for Mr.
                                    Lincoln to visit the General Assembly, shall be paid out of the
                                    State Treasury.

                                On motion by Mr. BUNDY, it was laid on the table. 
                            
                            

                            
                                APPORTIONMENT FOR REPRESENTATION.
                                 Mr. HAYES submitted a resolution, which was adopted, for a joint
                                    committee of seven, four on the part of the House and three on
                                    the part of the Senate, whose duty it shall be to report a plan
                                    of apportioning the State of Indiana for Senatorial and
                                    Representative purposer for the next six years. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE CAPITOL FLAG.
                                The SPEAKER laid before the House a statement from the Doorkeeper
                                    that he had procured the flag ordered by the Heuse for the dome
                                    of the Capital, and would be prepared to raise the same next
                                    Friday, at 2 1/2 o'clock.

                                The SPEAKER also laid before the House printed reports from the
                                    President and Trustees of the varions benevolent institutions of
                                    the State.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         IN SENATE.
                        
                             WEDNESDAY, January 16, 1861.
                        

                         Mr. MILLER presented a memorial from the Board of Commissioners of St.
                            Joseph county, reciting that the law exempting from taxation Personal
                            property and real estate of manual labor schools or colleges, operates
                            very injuriously to the citizens of said county, and praying that the
                            law in that particular be amended, so as to remove the difficulty; which
                            was read and referred to the Judiciary Committee.

                        Mr. LINE and Mr. CLAYPOOL presented petitions praying for the passage of
                            a law for protection of fish, and providing for an amendment to the game
                            law ; which were referred to a select committee of three, without
                            reading. 

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
                             Announced the passage of a resolution by that 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 21, 1861
                        No. 4
                    

                    
                        

                        

                             body inviting the Senate to a joint convention at 2 o'clock, for the
                                purpose of electing a United States Senator; and asked the return of
                                the House resolution authorizing a joint committee on apportionment.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            CLERICAL AND POLICE FORCE OF THE SENATE.
                             The LIEUT. GOVERNOR laid before the Senate communications from the
                                officers thereof, stating the number of assistants employed by each,
                                to wit: By the Principal Secretary, four clerks; by the Assistant
                                Secretary, four clerks; by the Doorkeepers, four assistants
                                each-sixteen, besides the four principals-total, twenty clerks and
                                doorkeepers. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW COUNTIES AND COUNTY LINES.
                             Mr. CONLEY, from a majority of the select Committee to which was
                                referred his bill, [S. 6,] repealing the new county and county
                                boundary act of March 7, 1857, reported it back with an amendment
                                repealing the act of '59 also.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. This seems to be a matter of great importance. Two years
                                ago, those of us not directly interested in the matter voted for the
                                passage of the bill more out of personal friendship to members
                                urging it, than anything else: thus we pass general laws for local
                                purposes, and the consequence is we are getting upon our statute
                                books a kind of legislation which a provision of our Constitution is
                                designed to prevent. I object to this report being acted upon at
                                this time. I am satisfied the committee has not had time to make the
                                proper investigation of the subject. It seems that one of the
                                special reasons assigned why the law of '59 should be repealed is
                                that there is some informality appertaining to its passage, upon the
                                journals of the House, by reason of which they say it is wholly
                                invalid. If so, they ought not to desire its repeal. I move the
                                reference of the whole matter to the Committee on County
                                    and Township Business.

                            Mr. CONLEY. I hope the reference will not be made. There is not a
                                county in the State having a surplus of territory but that has
                                experienced various difficulties growing out of the passage of the
                                act of 1859. I have no objection to the formation of new counties
                                out of certain territory, if the consent of the whole people to be
                                affected could be obtained.As a matter of justice to the older
                                counties, we ask protection from the injurious effect of these
                                laws.

                            Mr. WAGNER. This is a perfect exemplification of hasty and
                                inconsiderate legislation ; and this kind of action always affects
                                persons which never were intended to be affected by it. I ask
                                Senators to take time and think before passing this bill. I move to
                                recommit with instructions to strike out all that relates to the law
                                of 1859, as an amendment to the motion submitted by the gentleman
                                from Floyd, [Mr. Anthony.]

                            Mr. BLAIR. I hope this bill will be re-committed to the proper
                                committee. There are conflicting opinions in regard to the passage
                                of this bill. I voted for the passage of the law of 1859, and have
                                heard of no inconvenience to my constituents resulting therefrom. If
                                gentlemen want amendments to the law let them come up and propose
                                them without endeavoring to strike out all the provisions in
                                relation to this matter.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. The only difference between the law of 1857 and the law
                                of 1859 is, the former prescribes that the limits of a county shall
                                not contain less than 400 square miles, while the latter reduces the
                                number of square miles to 200.

                            Mr. WOLFE. I believe the statute of 1857 ought to be repealed.
                                Therefore I am opposed to a reference. Under the statute of 1857
                                permitting a change of county boundaries, a county may be cut wholly
                                in two without the consent of any considerable portion of its
                                citizens. A more outrageous law was never upon our statute book. 

                            Mr. STEELE was in favor of referring to a committee with instructions
                                to strike out the law of 1859. Nine-tenths of his constituents were
                                opposed to that law. It was rushed in at the close of the session,
                                and rushe through, when he voted for it without knowing its effects.
                                He was now in favor of its repeal.

                            Mr. TURNER regarded the law of 1857 more objectionable than the law
                                of 1859. He was in favor of repealing both the law of 1857 and the
                                law of 1859.

                            Mr. MARCH had no local interest in the law, but preferred to have
                                further reflection before voting squarely upon the repeal of the
                                law, and would vote to refer the matter to the 
                                Committee on County and Township Business.

                             Mr. HULL. Ripley county feels deeply interested in the repeal of the
                                law of 1859. He should vote for re-committal with the instructions
                                proposed by the Senator from Warren, [Mr. Wagner.]

                            Mr. WAGNER wanted to vote for the unconditional repeal of the law of
                                1859, but not for the repeal of the law of 1857. No Senator can
                                justify the law of 1859. He would like to see a law passed leaving
                                this matter to a majority of the parties interested.

                            Mr. ANTHONY had reason to believe there were political considerations
                                connected with this subject, though probably not confined to any one
                                party. He regarded these laws to be exponents of the doctrine of
                                popular sovereignty, and was surprised to see the Senator from
                                Green, [Mr. Conley] and from Harrison, [Mr. Wolfe,] opposing
                                them.

                            Mr. WOLFE, (interrupting) more properly squatter sovereignty.
                                [Laughter.]

                            Mr. ANTHONY confessed lie was at a loss to tell the difference. There
                                was great impropriety in legislating upon this report, because it
                                comes from the friends of the measure. This discussion proves the
                                necessity of sending this bill to a disinterested committee, that it
                                may report what legislation is necessary.

                            Mr. STEELE. If the question were submitted to his county, there would
                                not be more than one township out of the thirteen that would vote
                                for the law of 1859.

                            Mr. CONNER moved to refer to the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business, with instructions to report by bill
                                what legislation they deemed necessary on the subject.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN was anxious that this matter should be freely
                                investigated. Under the act of 1859 there was an effort made to take
                                a slice out of his county to its injury. Three-fourths of his
                                constituents would favor a repeal of that act. He favored the
                                reference of this subject to a committee.

                            Mr. CONLEY urged immediate action by the Senate, and hoped the matter
                                would not be sent back to a committee.

                            Mr. Conner's amendment to the amendment was agreed to: affirmative
                                20; negative 17.

                            The amendment as amended was rejected upon a division.

                            Mr. WAGNER moved to concur in the report by striking out all that
                                refers to the law of 1857. The objectionable feature in both laws
                                is, that it gives the right to a few to dismember a county.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON, as a test vote, moved to lay Mr. Wagner's motion on
                                the table.

                            This motion was agreed to by yeas 30; nays 14.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS made an ineffectual motion to concur and re-commit, with
                                instructions to strike out all that relates to the law of 1857.

                            The report of the Committee was then concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF U. S. SENATOR.
                             Mr. MURRAY moved to suspend the regular order, and take up the House
                                resolution calling for a Joint Convention to elect a U. S. Senator
                                this afternoon.

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            Mr. STEELE moved a concurrence in the resolution by the Senate.

                            Mr. MARCH desired to elect a United States Senator this day. The true
                                rule is to elect in separate session. The Republican party in this
                                body to be consistent, must vote for this proposition. The very
                                object of having two Houses in the General Assembly is, that one may
                                act as a check upon the other.

                            Mr. SLACK. In order for the Republican party to be entirely
                                consistent they ought not to go into an election at all. [Laughter.]
                                I recollect four years ago the Republican party absolutely refused
                                to go in.

                            Mr. CONNER. How was it in 1844-5?

                            Mr. SLACK. I was not here then. But I approbate the proposition of
                                the Senator from Delaware, [Mr. March.] I do hope to see, in that
                                party of which he is so prominent a member, something like
                                consistency. 

                            Mr. BEARSS. The Senator from Huntington, [Mr. Slack,] is mistaken. We
                                were invited thereat least we did not refuse to go there. They went
                                in such haste that they would not wait till the time came. 

                            Mr. SLACK. Are you sure the clocks agree now ? [Laughter.] 

                            Mr. MARCH. As I. recollect, we did not refuse to go, but they left us
                                as Joseph left Potiphar's wife. [Laughter.]

                            Mr. STEELE withdrew his motion to concur.

                            Mr. MURRAY renewed it.

                            Mr. WAGNER moved that the consideration of the resolution be
                                postponed till 2 o'clock.

                            Mr. SHOULDERS made an ineffectual motion to adjourn.

                            Mr. MURRAY. There never has been a question raised in regard to the
                                legality of election of U. S. Senator, either by joint ballot, or
                                concurrent resolutions ; and as the House has signified its desire
                                to go into the election at 2 o'clock to-day, I think the best plan
                                is for the Senate to concur in that resolution.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I do not hold myself responsible for previous
                                legislation, and have no desire to maintain a consistent record for
                                any party or for myself. Whenever I am satisfied that a principle of
                                action is right, I shall so vote, and it seems to me a very poor
                                argument for gentlemen to say that we may not act consistent with
                                former proceedings. It is a matter of no importance to the party to
                                which I belong whether the election be by joint session or by
                                separate action ; but a different state of affairs may happen two
                                years hence. We may have the control of but one House, and if that
                                should be the case, I am in favor  of joint action of the two Houses. Let the public will be carried
                                out, no matter what party be in power. I am, therefore, against
                                post-ponement and for immediate action. 

                            Mr. MURRAY made an ineffectual motion to lay Mr. Wagner's motion on
                                the table.

                            The motion was then agreed to, upon a division. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SOLDIERS OF 1812.
                             Mr.DICKINSON offered a resolution, which was adopted, inviting Col.
                                John Vawter, and any other soldier of the war of 1812, to seats on
                                the floor of the Senate.

                            And then-

                            On motion, the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. CRAVENS offered the following : 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Senate and House of
                                            Representatives shall, upon the passage of this
                                            resolution by either House, proceed immediately
                                            thereupon to choose a person to represent this State in
                                            the Senate of the United States for six years from and
                                            after the fourth day of March.

                                        Second. That the person who shall receive a majority of
                                            the votes given in both Houses, shall be declared duly
                                            elected to serve as such Senator.

                                        Third. The President and the Secretary of the Senate, and
                                            the Speaker and Clerk of the House of Representatives
                                            shall, immediately upon the choice, as herein provided
                                            for by their respective Houses, certify the same to the
                                            Governor, who shall commission the person so chosen as
                                            such Senator. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. SLACK, made an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution on the
                                table yeas 16, nays 31. 

                             Mr. SLACK. This seems to me to be a strange sort of proceeding. It
                                is the first time in the history of the State that an attempt has
                                been made to reverse the rule which has worked so well for nearly
                                half a century in the State of Indiana. I can see no good reason for
                                it. Though I presume the gentleman who introduced the resolution can
                                give one.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. I will say in reply that we are to-day as we have been
                                since the adoption of the present State Constitution without any law
                                regulating the choosing of U.S. Senators, and inasmuch as the
                                Constitution of the United States prescribes that they shall be
                                chosen by the Legislatures of the several States, we go back to that
                                Constitution to ascertain what is 'our Legislature. We find that it
                                shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives. Now, sir, we
                                choose this method, for we have no law in our Constitution
                                authorizing a joint convention. The only instance wherein that
                                instrument contemplates a union of the two Houses, is that which
                                prescribes a certain duty of the Speaker of the House in opening the
                                votes cast for Governor and Lt. Governor, and in my opinion it does
                                not contemplate a joint session then. It is the duty of the Speaker
                                to count the votes in the presence of both Houses: he may first go
                                to one House and then to the other, or he may stand between the two.
                                In my opinion the way proposed is the only way we can proceed to
                                choose the Senator.

                            Mr. SLACK did not say that the way proposed was illegal, but he could
                                see no reason why we should be called upon to do away with a rule
                                which has succeeded so well for so long a time.

                            Mr. RAY thought if the reasoning of the Senator from Jefferson, [Mr.
                                Cravens,] be valid, a Senator could only be elected by a bill, and
                                if by a bill, then the bill must be read a first, second and third
                                time taking the regular constitutional mode of maturing a bill. This
                                proposition is but a proposition to check a time-honored custom. He
                                would make no factious opposition to the resolution, but insisted
                                that no invasion should be made upon the practice heretofore
                                obtaining in our Legislature. We ought not at this time to set a bad
                                precedent when there is no need of it. 

                            Mr. TARKINGTON raised a point of order, that the first business of
                                the Senate was to dispose of the House resolution, which was made
                                the special order for two o'clock.

                            The point was sustained. 

                             Mr. CRAVENS, with the consent of the Senate, withdrew his
                                resolutions, and on his motion the House resolution was laid on the
                                table by yeas 25 nays 20.

                            Mr. CRAVENS again offered his resolution, demanding the previous
                                question; the demand was sustained by yeas 28, nays 20.

                            The main question being ordered-

                            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR declared the resolution adopted.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage of a resolve to elect
                                a United States Senator by concurrent vote of the two Houses ; which
                                resolution the Senate concurred in after casting its vote for
                                Senator.]

                            Mr. SLACK offered a resolution identical with the one offered by
                                Representative Heffren at the organization of the House, [printed on
                                page 7 of these Reports.]

                            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR decided nothing to be in order but the vote for
                                Senator.

                            Mr. WAGNER. In accordance with the decision of the Chair, I nominate
                                Henry S. Lane as a candidate for that office.

                            Mr. LINE. I present the name of Joseph A. Wright.

                            The roll was called and the following the viva voce
                                vote resulted: for Henry S. Lane, 27; for Joseph A. Wrigt, 21.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. I believe Henry S. Lane has received a majority of the
                                vote cast.

                            The LIEUT. GOVERNOR. Yes, sir.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. I move that the House be immediately informed of the
                                action of the Senate.

                            The motion was agreed to by consent.

                            [The last message received from the House was taken up, and the
                                accompanying resolution concurred in by the Senate.] 



                            
                                 NEWSPAPERS FOR MEMBERS.
                                 Mr. SLACK offered a resolution directing the Doorkeeper to
                                    subscribe for the use of the members and officers of the Senate,
                                    for three  copies each of
                                    the Daily Sentinel and the Daily Journal, two to be enveloped and stamped, and three
                                    copies each of the Volksblatt and the Free Press, enveloped and stamped.

                                The resolution was decided out of order until the resolution
                                    subscribing for newspapers, adopted yesterday morning, should be
                                    rescinded.

                                Mr. LINE made a motion to reconsider the vote adopting the
                                    resolution of yesterday.

                                After some remarks by Messrs. Bearss, Claypool, Murray, Ray and
                                    others-

                                Mr. WAGNER made an ineffectual motion yeas 20, nays 26-to lay the
                                    motion on the table.

                                The motion to reconsider was then agreed to by yeas 32, nays
                                    15.

                                An ineffectual motion was made to adjourn.

                                On motion by Mr. SLACK, the resolution of yesterday was laid on
                                    the table.

                                Mr. SLACK then offered his resolution printed above.[A message
                                    from the House announced the concurrence of that body in the
                                    Senatorial resolutions relating to the mode of electing U. .S.
                                    Senators; also, that "the House has elected Henry S. Lane U. S.
                                    Senator for six years from the 4th of March, 1861;" also, the
                                    adoption of resolution inviting the Senate to repair instanter
                                    to the Hall of the House to witness the inauguration of the Hon.
                                    Oliver P. Morton as Governor-he becoming such in consequence of
                                    the resignation of Hon. Henry S. Lane.]

                                On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the resolution before the Senate was
                                    laid on the table, in order to accept the invitation from the
                                    House.

                                The LIEUT. GOVERNOR laid before the Senate the resignation of the
                                    Hon. Henry S. Lane of his office as Governor of the State.

                                On motion by Mr. TEEGARDEN, this letter of resignation was
                                    ordered spread upon the journal of the Senate.[It is
                                    substantially recited in the House proceedings of this day.

                                The LIEUT. GOVERNOR called Senator Cravens to the Chair.

                                The invitation of the House was then accepted, and Senators
                                    immediately left the Chamber to respond thereto.

                                When the Senate returned-

                                On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the newspaper resolution was taken from
                                    the table.

                                An ineffectual motion was made to adjourn.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB moved to amend the resolution by adding the words
                                    "three copies of the American"

                                Mr. SLACK demanded the previous question; and the demand was
                                    seconded by yeas 32, nays 15.

                                The amendment was agreed to by yeas 25, nays 23.

                                The resolution as amended was adopted by yeas 24, nays 23.

                                And then-

                                On motion, the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            WEDNESDAY, January 16, 1861.
                        

                        The House met at 9 o'clock-Mr. Branham in the chair.

                        Mr. WOODHULL submitted a resolution inviting the Senate to participate
                            with the House of Representatives in raising the National Flag on the
                            dome of the Capitol next Friday, at 2 1/2 o'clock.

                        Mr. HEFFREN. It was still uncertain whether we would be ready at the hour
                            designated.

                        Mr. WOODHULL withdrew the proposition.

                        Mr. BUNDY submitted an order, which was adopted, inviting the Senate to
                            meet the House in joint convention this day at 2 o'clock p.m., for the
                            purpose of electing a United States Senator. 

                        
                            THREE PER CENT FUND.
                             Mr. DOBBINS submitted a resolution instructing the Auditor of State
                                to report to the House a statement showing as early as possible the
                                amount, if any, of the Three per cent. Fund due the State of Indiana
                                from the General Government; also the amount distributed to the
                                various counties in this State.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. In the county of Martin there are some $400 or $500 of
                                this fund, belonging to our citizens, and if the General Government
                                owes the State any of this fund, he suggested that it would be
                                proper to collect it while we may.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. CRAIN submitted a resolution, which was adopted, tendering the
                                thanks of the. House of Representatives to the Hon. Judge Perkins
                                for his attentions in the qualification of the Governor and Lieut.
                                Governor last Monday. 
                        
                        

                        
                            APPORTIONMENT.
                             Mr. HEFFREN moved to reconsider the vote of yesterday adopting the
                                order for the appointment of the joint Committee on
                                    Apportionment.

                            The SPEAKER. It is a concurrent resolution, and has gone to the
                                Senate.

                            Mr. HEFFREN then moved that the Clerk be directed to ask for its
                                return to this House, and the order was made by consent.

                            The SPEAKER now announced the order of business of the House.

                            The Committee on the Capitol Flag was announced,
                                namely: Messrs. Heffren, Bryant and Veatch.

                            Mr. FRASIER submitted a resolution, which was adopted, requesting the
                                Treasurer to make a report to this House at as early a day as
                                practicable of the amount of all sums of money paid out of funds
                                belonging to the State not appropriated by law, specifically stating
                                to whom such payments have been made, and by what authority.

                            Mr. McLEAN made an ineffectual motion to suspend the order of
                                business, so as to enable him to move to take up the consideration
                                of bills on the second reading. 

                        
                        

                        

                        
                            E. PLURIBUS UNUM.
                             Mr. ORR submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                Doorkeeper be directed to procure and fix in the beak of the eagle
                                surmounting the clock behind the Speaker's Chair an appropriate
                                scroll, bearing the National motto-"E. Pluribus
                                    Unum."
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            ROADS.
                             Mr. HAWORTH submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                constitutionality of enacting a law, providing that residents on the
                                location of turnpike and plank roads may levy a tax on real estate
                                for the purpose of constructing said roads.

                            Mr. WOODS submitted an order that John A. Henricks and A. Hurd be
                                added to the committee to investigate the affairs of the Northern
                                State Prison.

                            Mr. JENKINSON hoped that would not be done.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The Speaker had declared his purpose to appoint a
                                perfectly disinterested committee-had evidently desired to avoid the
                                charge of appointing a whitewashing committee. The committee was
                                large enough, and the State would have to pay enough for it. He
                                remembered the $20,000 cost of the Bank Frauds
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. PARRETT did not want to see the committee enlarged. Coming from
                                the north part of the State, he thought it preferable to have just
                                such a committee as had been selected from the South part of the
                                State.

                            On motion by Mr. ORR, the order was laid on the table.

                            Mr. WARRUM submitted a resolution, which was adopted, requesting the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expediency of requiring all civil cases of appeal from justices to
                                be decided on the papers and evidence reduced to writing before the
                                justice. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE PRINTER'S PRICES.
                             Mr. RANDALL submitted a resolution for a select committee of seven
                                to inquire in to the prices paid to the State Printer, &c., and
                                report on the same.

                            Mr. FISHER suggested that it go to the Committee on
                                    Printing.

                            The SPEAKER. There is none.

                            Mr. RANDALL. The object is to give the matter to a committee of
                                practical printers.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. PROSSER submitted an order, which was adopted, that the
                                Doorkeeper be instructed to procure scales and a list of prices of
                                postage for use in the stationery room.

                            Mr. COOPRIDER submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing
                                the Committee on Education to inquire whether
                                there is any law authorizing the loaning or distributing school
                                money arising from estates without heirs. 

                            
                                
                                    
                                         Mr. DOBBINS submitted a resolution, instructing the
                                                Committee on Right and Privilege
                                            to inquire into the expediency of so amending the law in
                                            reference to stock killed by cars or locomotives of
                                            railroads, as to compel the owners of railroads under
                                            proper penalties to deposit bonds or securities not more
                                            than $50,000, nor less than $10,000, with the auditor of
                                            the county in which their principal office is
                                            established.

                                        2. That in case of any railroad failing to fence their
                                            roads according to law, or to pay a just valuation for
                                            stock killed by them, the owners of stock so killed
                                            shall have a lien upon such securities for damages ; and
                                            in case of failure to realize damages by execution and
                                            sale of other railroad property, then they have recourse
                                            on said bonds.

                                        3. The Ohio and Mississippi railroad having no principal
                                            office in the State, that they be compelled to deposit
                                            securities with the auditor of Knox county. 

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. DOBBINS considered it was high time the Representatives of the
                                people began to legislate for the benefit of the people of the
                                State. We had been legislating for the benefit of these corporations
                                for a number of years. The people of the County of Martin were
                                imposed upon by the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad in the destruction
                                of their property along the line of that road, nearly every clay;
                                and when the bill for damages is presented, they say they are too
                                poor to pay. When they are asked to fence their road, they are still
                                too poor. But recently, when the Prince of Wales passed over the
                                State, the President, of the road, at Cincinnati, was not too poor
                                to fit up a car in a style of regal magnificence to transport the
                                future King of England from St. Louis. About the same time the Road
                                Agent answered a claim of damages for killing a poor widow's cow,
                                that the Company was too poor. He appreciated the general value of
                                railroads to the country, but still the rights of private property
                                should be respected.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. NEBEKER made an ineffectual effort to reconsider the order for
                                Cushing's Manual, and make it Jefferson's because, he said a
                                sufficent number of Cushing's could not be supplied from the
                                Library.

                            Mr. WHITE submitted an order which was adopted that no committee of
                                the House should employ a clerk at the expense of the State without
                                being previously authorized.

                            Mr. BOBBINS submitted an order, that the Doorkeeper, mark the
                                enveloped newspapers order for the use of members so as to
                                distinguish their political character.

                             Mr. PROSSER proposed that the Free Press
                                newspaper, instead of being marked with the letter F, should be
                                marked with the " let-her-rip."

                            Mr. CAMERON looked upon the order as entirely unnecessary. He
                                believed the publishers had some understanding about wrapping, so as
                                to be distinguished. At any rate, at present, the JOURNAL was larger than the Sentinel,  and that would do, unless the
                                    Sentinel should enlarge. He moved to lay the
                                resolution on the table.

                            The motion was agreed to. 

                             Mr. BUNDY submitted a resolution which was adopted that the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the law regulating the jurisdiction of
                                courts as that the court of common pleas shall have jurisdiction of
                                all crimes and misdemeanors, except such as belong to the
                                jurisdiction of justices of the peace.

                            Mr. OWENS submitted a resolution directing the Committee on
                                    County and Township Business to inquire into the
                                ezpediency of changing the laws so as to require the jails to be ke
                                kept by coroners instead of sheriffs.

                            Mr. McCLURG submitted an order which was adopted, requiring the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expediency and constitutionality of granting to the county
                                commissioners power to levy taxes for local improvements.

                             Mr. WOODS, submitted a resolutioon which was adopted directing the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire into the
                                expediency of increasing the levy so as to insure a school for at
                                least six months of each year.

                            Mr. WARRUM submitted an order, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Roads inquire into the propriety
                                of making it the duty of supervisors to clear out obstructions in
                                rivers and water-courses in their districts.

                            Mr. VEATCH submitted an order, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Roads to inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the road law as that no person shall be
                                required to work on the road more than two days in each year; and
                                providing for keeping up the highways by a tax on all the property
                                in the township.

                            Mr. WOODRUFF submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Roads inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the law for the election of supervisors as
                                to require them to execute a bond for the faithful performance of
                                their duties.

                            Mr. TURNER submitted an order for the Judiciary
                                    Committee to inquire into the expediency of so
                                amending the Practice Act that bills of exception shall not pe
                                signed in vacation , and so modifyinff the privilege that the
                                opposite party shall have notice of the time and place of tendering
                                such bill to the judge.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted an order which was adopted, that the
                                    Stationery Committee furnish the Doorkeeper
                                with three dollars worth of stamps. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONVENTION OF THE BORDER STATES.
                             Mr. POLK submitted a resolution that the Committee on
                                    Federal Relations, inquire and report at an early day
                                on the expediency and propriety of the State of Indiana recommending
                                a convention of the Border States, free and slave States, to meet at
                                Louisville not later than the 22d day of February, and of sending
                                delegates thereto to consider the State of the Union, who shall
                                report to this body before its adjournment.

                        
                        

                        
                            ENROLMENT OF THE MILITIA.
                             Mr. MOODY submitted a resolution, directing the Committee
                                    on Military Affairs to port a bill providing for the
                                immediate enrolment of the Militia of this State.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Put it in the form of an inquiry.

                            Mr. MOODY said there had been no adequate enrolment of the Militia of
                                the State for the last thirty years; and consequently had not
                                received our quota of arms from the General Government. We were now
                                without public arms-had no provision for defence-and in the present
                                aspect of affairs it was expedient that we should be in readiness to
                                draw such arms from the United States as we are entitled to. He
                                thought the case needed no inquiry. It was well known that there was
                                no adequate law of enrolment. There was a sort of a Militia Law
                                passed a few years ago; but it has been disregarded, because there
                                was nothing in it-no pay-no penalty-no adequate sanction.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. If the gentleman desired the Militia law to be
                                perfected, why did he not do it himself, instead of creating a
                                committee He should not shirk the labor and responsibility of a
                                bill, by compelling a committee to report one.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend by inserting appropriately the
                                words, "enquire into the propriety or expediency of."

                            The amendment was agreed to, and so the resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, submitted a resolution, which was
                                rejected, declaring the opinion that there had been more resolutions
                                offered to inquire into the expediency of reporting bills, than
                                there was likely to be bills reported during the session. 
                        
                        



                        
                            BILLS INTRODUCED.
                             By Mr. WILLIAMS. [45] To regulate Insusurance Companies not
                                incorporated by the State of Indiana:

                            By Mr. GROVER, [46] To regalize the acts and proceedings of certain
                                special terms of the Circuit Court:

                            By Mr. COLLINS, of Adams. [47] To amend the 29th section of the act
                                for the election of supervisors of highways, and prescribing certain
                                duties of township officers ; approved March 5, 1856:

                            By Mr. BLACK. [48] Supplemental to the act regarding estrays and
                                articles adrift; approved June 16, 1852:

                            By Mr. ATKINSON. [49] To prevent hogs from running at large without a
                                ring in the nose:

                            By Mr. CAMERON. [50] To repeal the act to provide for the return of
                                juries in the Common Pleas Court on the third day of the term;
                                approved March 5, 1859:

                            By Mr. JONES, of Vermillion. [51] To fix  the time of holding the Circuit Court
                                in the 8th Judicial Circuit, and to repeal all laws in conflict
                                therewith:

                            By Mr. COLLINS, of Huntington. [52] To authorize justices of the
                                peace to administer any oath required by law :

                            By Mr. GRESHAM. [53] To amend the 6th section of the Practice Act of
                                June 18th, 1852:

                            By Mr. ORR. [54] To repeal the sections 113, 117 of the act to
                                provide for a general system of Common Schools, &c., approved
                                March 1, 1855:

                            By Mr. FERGUSON. [55] To provide for fencing at ferry crossings of
                                county and township roads:

                            By Mr. HEFFREN. [56] To repeal the act prescribing the duties and
                                fixing the compensation of Agent of State:

                            Which were severally passed to the second reading to-morrow.

                            On motion by Mr. HOLCOMB, his bill [12] To amend the third section of
                                the act entitled an act to amend the third section of the act to
                                establish the Court of Common Pleas, &c., was taken up, passed
                                the second reading, and referred to a Select Committee, namely :
                                Messrs. Holcomb, Edson, Hopkins and Fisher. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION. ELECTION OF UNITED STATES
                                SENATOR. 
                             Mr. NEBEKER submitted a resolution (the Senate concurring) that the
                                General Assembly now proceed to the election of United States
                                Senator by concurrent vote.

                            Mr. FISHER. The hour for the election heretofore appointed having
                                passed, he proposed to make it 3 o'clock.

                            It was agreed to and so adopted.

                            A message from the Senate now announced that that body had adopted a
                                joint resolution for the election of United States Senator this day
                                by separate action of the two Houses-the President of the Senate and
                                Speaker of the House to certify the same.

                            On motion bs Mr. HEFFREN the joint resolutions communicated from the
                                Senate were taken up.

                            Br. BINGHAM moved that the House concur.

                            The SPEAKER ordered the yeas and nays, and they were taken.

                            Mr. BINGHAM, perceiving that some gentlemen present did not vote,
                                called the attention of the House to the rule requiring all to
                                vote.

                            Mr. HEFFREN, and Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, each stated that they had
                                refused to vote, not factiously, but because they could not think
                                that the election of United States Senator, under such a regulation,
                                could be constitutionally made, &c.

                            The result of the vote was-yeas 82, nays 9:

                            So the Senate joint resolution was concurred in.

                            A message from the Senate now announced on the part of that body the
                                election of His Excellency, the honorable Henry S. Lane, to the
                                office of Senator of the United States for the State ot Indiana-to
                                serve from the 4th of March, 1861, to the 4th of March, 1867.

                            The SPEAKER announced the order of the election of U. S. Senator
                                under the joint resolution just adopted.

                            Mr. BUNDY, For that office I nominate the Hon. Henry S. Lane.

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG. I nominate Joseph A. Wright.

                            The vote being ordered and taken-

                            The SPEAKER announced the whole number of votes cast, 97; necessary
                                to a choice, 49. Of the whole number. Henry S. Lane received 61,
                                which being a majority of all the votes cast, he is hereby declared
                                on the part of the House of Representatives, duly elected Senator to
                                represent the State of Indiana in the Senate of the United States,
                                for the term of six years from and after the 4th day of March,
                                1861.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from His
                                Excellency, Governor Lane, resigning the office of Governor of the
                                State of Indiana, returning thanks to the people for electing him to
                                that high official position, and alleging that nothing but a high
                                sense of public duty had induced him to tender this resignation,
                                which he asked to be placed on the Journal of the House of
                                Representatives.

                            Mr. CAMERON submitted an order to inform the Senate of the election
                                just taken on the part of the House which was concurred in. 



                            
                                INAUGURATION OF GOVERNOR MORTON, 
                                 Mr. BUNDY submitted a resolution, which was adopted, inviting
                                    the Senate to joint convention in this Hall, instanter. to
                                    witness the formal investment of the Hon. Oliver P. Morton with
                                    the office of Governor of the State of Indiana, devolved upon
                                    him by the resignation of Governor Lane.

                                The Senate responded promptly; and order having obtained in the
                                    joint convention-

                                The Presiding Officer of the Senate said : By the resignation of
                                    the late Governor Lane, on account of his election to the office
                                    of United States Senator for the State of Indiana, the office of
                                    Governor has become vacant. By virtue of the Constitution, the
                                    Hon. Oliver P. Morton becomes now Governor of the State. If Mr.
                                    Morton is present, he will step forward, and the oath of his
                                    office will be administered to him.

                                The oath was administered by Judge Perkins.

                                His Excellency, Governor Morton, then returned his thanks to
                                    Senators for the kindness ind indulgence received at their hands
                                    in the brief term of his official intercourse with them. In the
                                    new position to which he had been called,he trusted that their
                                    social and official relations would be equally satisfactory and
                                    pleasant. 

                                

                                It could haldly be expected of him to deliver an inaugural
                                    address. He could only pledge himself to a faithful and
                                    economical administration. The financial affairs of the State
                                    were in great confusion and embarrassment. It would be one of
                                    the first duties of the General Assembly to investigate them.
                                    The people had been promised reform. That promise would, and
                                    must be, redeemed. The times in which we were called to act,
                                    were full of solemn portent, counselling discretion and
                                    firmness. He would co-operate heartily with the Legislature in
                                    all measures having in view the well-being of the community and
                                    the preservation of the Union of these States.

                                The Governor having retired from the forum-

                                The PRESIDENT of the Senate prorogued the joint session, and
                                    Senators returned to their Chamber. 
                            
                            


                            
                                BILLS INTRODUCED. 
                                 By Mr. WELLS : [57] To amend sections 2, 3, 5 and 6, of the act
                                    to provide for the re-location of county boundaries, &c.,
                                    approved March 2, 1855.

                                By Mr. CAMERON: [58] To repeal the act to amend section 42 of the
                                    act to establish the Court of Common Pleas, &c.. approved
                                    May 14, 1852, so as to regulate the docketing and dispasal of
                                    business thereof-approved March 5, 1859:

                                Which were severally passed to the second reading.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 17, 1861.
                        
                         Mr. WILLIAMS. Inasmuch as we have no presiding officer for this House, I
                            move that we proceed to elect one.

                        The motion was agreed to by consent.

                        The PRESIDENT pro tem. [Mr. Wagner in the Chair.]
                            Nominations are now in order,

                        Mr. CONNER. I will put in nomination for that office the Hon. John R.
                            Cravens, of Jefferson.

                        Mr. LINE. I present the name of the Hon. Wm. C. Tarkington.

                        The roll being called, 25 Senators voted for Mr. Cravens, and 18 for Mr.
                            Tarkington.

                        The PRESIDENT pro tem declared Mr. Cravens to be
                            elected President of the Senate.

                        On motion by Mr. MURRAY, a committee of two, which the President made to
                            consist of Senators Murray and Tarkington, were appointed to conduct the
                            President to the Chair.

                        The PRESIDENT said: Gentlemen of the Senate-I beg leave to assure you of
                            my profound and heartfelt thanks for this renewed obligation which you
                            have placed me under to you. And let me assure you of another thing,
                            although this office is no sinecure, as you well know, I feel that
                            during the time I have had the honor of presiding over your
                            deliberations, I have been assured by the kind and courteous feeling
                            that encourages me to enter upon the discharge of my duties with
                            confidence of your aid and assistance, I shall, therefore, not detain
                            you with any further remarks from the business of the Senate.

                        On motion of Mr. LINE, these remarks were ordered spread upon the Senate
                            journal.

                        Mr. SHIELDS presented a petition from a portion of his constituents,
                            praying that certain moneys belonging to the school fund which has been
                            diverted from its proper course, may be restored at once; which was read
                            and referred to the Judiciary Committee. 

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                             Mr. CRAVENS. As chairman of the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations, I will submit for the consideration of the
                                Senate the following preamble and Resolutions. I will say that it
                                was not the intention of the Committee on this occasion to present
                                anything in the form or shape of a remedy for the present
                                difficalties, but on the other hand simply to make some declaration
                                to the Government, and to the people of the other States as to the
                                position of Indiana in this crisis. It is thought advisable by a
                                majority of the Committee to pursue this course in order that
                                Indiana might be upon the record; and as a response to other States
                                who have spoken upon this question. And I will take occasion to say,
                                in behalf of some members of the Committee, that many of them
                                objected to the resolutions, not to the manner, or spirit, or
                                expression, but because they stopped short of the object which they
                                thought ought to be obtained. With these remarks I will read the
                                resolutions: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        STATE OF INDIANA AS A MEMBER OF THE
                                            FEDERAL UNION.


                                        WHEREAS, The peace and harmony of the
                                            Republic is so disturbed as to excite in the minds of
                                            all patriots the most serious apprehensions of the
                                            public welfare; and

                                        WHEREAS, It is the duty of all loyal
                                            citizens of our beloved country to exert themselves to
                                            the utmost to avert the dangers that threaten to
                                            overthrow the stability and permanence of our free
                                            institutions, and to remove the cause or causes, if any
                                            such exist, that have arrayed one portion of a once
                                            happy and united people against each other; and

                                        WHEREAS, We duly appreciate the
                                            blessings of the Union under the operation and control
                                            of the Federal Constitution, as they were devised and
                                            intended by the founders of the Republic; and

                                        WHEREAS, We regard the dissolution of
                                            the Union and the subversion of the Constitution as a
                                            calamity so terrible in its consequences that we can
                                            contemplate it only as a mighty evil, the extent of
                                            which we can estimate when we shall have become a
                                            broken, disjointed people, at war among ourselves, and a
                                            prey to our enemies; and

                                        WHEREAS, In view of all these
                                            considerations we, as a part of the people of this
                                            Republic, inviolably attached to this Government, and
                                            rendering the most undivided allegiance to all its laws
                                            enacted by authority, and in compliance with the
                                            provisions of its Constitution, do hereby earnestly
                                            pledge ourselves, and

                                        Resolved, by the Senate, (the House of
                                            Representatives concurring therein.) That as we have
                                            not, in the past, contributed in any degree to bring
                                            about that state of things which threatens to result in
                                            overwhelming calamity and unparalleled crime,we will not
                                            hereafter do any act or acts that will tend to weaken
                                            the bonds of this Union, violate the Constitution of the
                                            United States, or oppose or otherwise interfere with any
                                            of the laws passed under and by authority of the
                                            same.


                                        

                                        Resolved, That the maintenance of the
                                            rights of the states, and especially the right of each
                                            State to order and control its own domestic
                                            institutions, according to its own judgement
                                            exclusively, is essential to that balance of powers on
                                            which the perfection and endurance of our political
                                            fabric depends, and that we, as a portion of the
                                            people,will abide by, maintain and uphold the same, both
                                            in theory and practice.

                                        AND in view of the fact that several
                                            of the States in the Federal Union have placed
                                            themselves in an attitude of hostility towards the
                                            Government, in our opinion, without justifiable cause,
                                            therefore

                                        Be it Resolved by the Senate, (the
                                            House of Representatives concurring therein,) That all
                                            firm, wise, dignified and patriotic measures, having for
                                            their object the preservation of the Union, and the
                                            maintenance of the National authority under the
                                            Constitution of the United States, whether adopted by
                                            the present or incoming Administration should be
                                            sustained with firmness and determination'; and, on
                                            behalf of the people of the State of Indiana,'we hereby
                                            pledge to the Federal Government whatever of power or
                                            purpose a loyal and patriotic State should contribute in
                                            the effort to preserve the only Government on earth
                                            wherein the rights of man constitute the foundation of
                                            its laws and the measure of its civil authority.

                                        Resolved, That the citizens and
                                            Eepresentatives of Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, North,
                                            Carolina, Kentucky, Missouri and Tennessee, who have
                                            patriotically resisted the progress of secession, are
                                            entitled to the admiration and gratitude of all other
                                            Union-loving citizens. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. MURRAY moved to concur in the report of the committee, with an
                                amendment, adding a resolution requesting the Governor to transmit
                                copies to each of our members of Congress and governors of the
                                several States.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I offer the following amendment to the amendment:

                            [This amendment is identical with the preamble and resolutions
                                offered by Senator Ray, and printed in Tuesday's proceedings.]

                            Mr. CONNER. I regret exceedingly, Mr. President, that the honorable
                                Senator from Monroe, [Mr. Tarkington,] has felt it to be his duty to
                                present at this time the amendment that has been read. In the first
                                place it seems to me, under the rules which we have adopted, that it
                                should go to the Committee on Federal Relations.
                                It cannot be regarded in the relation of an amendment to the
                                resolution reported by the committee, for it is a memorial addressed
                                to Congress, and is therefore not germain to the resolutions on
                                hand. But that is not what I desire to say to the Senate.

                            Although the Republican party has a majority in this Senate, and
                                although it be true there is a majority of our political friends
                                upon that committee, I am proud to know that the committee have upon
                                this occasion rose above mere party considerations, and have labored
                                to pen a preamble and resolutions in such terms as that it may not
                                be regarded as offensive to any party in this land; and I had hoped
                                that Senators on this floor would meet them with an accommodating
                                spirit. I think it eminently proper that we as citizens should
                                define our position in such terms as will cause no reflection upon
                                either of the two great parties of this commonwealth. I have not
                                nsen for the purpose of making a speech, for I seldom indulge in
                                speech making; I only desire to remark, in conclusion, and to appeal
                                to Senators to allow the resolutions reported this committee to pass
                                without giving them any party character whatever, and without
                                protracting discussion. The character of what is termed " the
                                amendment," must necessarily provoke discussion, and no one will see
                                that more clearly than the Senator from Monroe. At an early day
                                questions will arise, looking to a remedy for our national
                                difficulties, and then the Senator may have the glorious privilege
                                of defining his position. 

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. Upon the point of order I presume the gentleman must
                                be mistaken. Last, night was the first meeting of the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations, and the
                                discussions were all of the most pacific, quiet and conciliatory
                                character. I announced in that Committee, notwithstanding I did not
                                particularly object to the matter of the report submitted, that I
                                objected to a report coining from the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations at this time, unless it embodied something
                                like a compromise upon the question now agitating the country. I
                                said I was not willing to vote for the resolutions isolated and
                                alone, because they would go to the country as our ultimatum. I
                                therefore object to the resolutions, because they do not contain a
                                proposition for a compromise. They are simply a declaration, a
                                Fourth of July speech, and nothing else. The amendment, which I had
                                the honor to introduce, makes a proposition to the border States,
                                who are waiting to see what we are going to do upon this subject,
                                that they can rally around. But when we make the simple declaration
                                that we will stand by the Union, and erect a flag on the dome of the
                                Capitol, it simply amounts to nothing. Every school boy knows we are
                                in favor of the Union now and forever. I have no sentiments in
                                consonance with South Carolina or any other seceding State, neither
                                do my views agree with the Crittenden amendment; and I disclaim the
                                charge of the Senator from Wabash, [Mr. Conner] that this amendment
                                is thrown in here for party purposes or for political speech-making.
                                * * * * * There will be a party in the Union, I have no doubt, that
                                will stand back until a compromise is proposed, and for that reason
                                I am willing to make it at an early day.

                            Mr. RAY. In behalf of a minority of the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations, I present a minority report.

                            [Mr. Ray read the report, which recommended the adoption, by the
                                Senate, of a preamble and series of resolutions, identical with
                                those offered in the Senate by Mr. Ray, and in the House by Mr.
                                Holcomb, on day before yesterday. They are printed in the Senate
                                proceedings of that day.]

                            Mr. RAY. I believe it due from me, Mr. President, as one of the
                                Committee on Federal Relations, to make some observations, sir, upon
                                the pending question. I feel it due to myself to say, while I do not
                                object to the tone and spirit of the majority report, yet I feel that it falls so far short of
                                the demands of the crisis, that this Senate, looking to the
                                condition of public affairs, should adopt the amendment instead of
                                the majority report. We are, sir, now in the throes of revolution,
                                and I shall be the last man to introduce partisan discussions in
                                this Hall further than is necessary, sir, to explain my own position
                                and the position of the party to which I have the honor to belong.
                                It does not become that conciliatory and amiable spirit which
                                prevailed last evening in the Committee on Federal Relations to drag
                                in party politics in this discussion ; but, sir, I do think that the
                                portentous position of public affairs demand that the State of
                                Indiana, through her representatives. should make a broad, tangible
                                declaration of sentiments that will be received by our Southern
                                States as the sentiments of a magnanimous and conservative people-a
                                people who are opposed to the shedding of brothers' blood. I think,
                                sir, at this time we ought to rise] above ail partizan feeling-the
                                patriot alone ought to speak in a perilous crisis like this and
                                whoever would bring about party discussion for the purpose of
                                upholding his own; party or defaming the opposition ought not to be
                                ranked as a patriot in times like this. Then, sir, what is the duty
                                of Indiana? I hold that her duty rises higher than the raising of a
                                flag from the dome of our State House, or the passage of empty and
                                harmless resolutions of attachment to the Union. It is a cheap
                                declaration of sentiment, that we are in favor of the perpetuation
                                of the Union; this is but a regular Fourth of July declaration for
                                the last seventy-five years. The times demand something more
                                practical, something more tangible, something that the country can
                                form around to save this tottering, trembling j Republic.[Mr. RAY
                                continued nearly an hour and a half. His speech will be written out
                                by the Reporter and printed hereafter.] 

                            Mr. CRAVENS. [Mr. Wagner in the chair.] Mr. President: I regret that
                                the word " party" has been mentioned in this connection. I submit to
                                this Senate whether there was a single thing in the preamble and
                                resolutions introduced by myself, as chairman of the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations, which would
                                warrant a bitter partizan discussion and a review of the political
                                parties of this country. Are they not conceived in a spirit of
                                candor and compromise? Is there a single shadow of any political
                                platform about them? Then, sir, I say I earnestly deplore the
                                dragging in even the name of party in the consideration of questions
                                of the magnitude that we are called to examine at this time. I trust
                                some of us will be pardoned if. as humble citizens who have by
                                accident or combination of circumstances obtained seats upon this
                                floor, if we occupy a few moments in the expression of our
                                sentiments in this matter.

                            As the gentleman [Mr. Ray] has well said,terrible clouds are
                                overhanging this country which overwhelm the public mind, and render
                                is almost powerless to seize upon anything which promises relief.
                                Yet we are called upon by that Senator to take the matter into o
                                hands and propose a remedy. Sir, we have high-minded Union-loving
                                men at Washington who are to-day seeking a remedy; let us not take
                                the van, but rather let us follow in their lead. Let us pledge the
                                people of Indiana, who have faith in their devotion to the Union and
                                the Constitution, to abide their decision. If they propose measures
                                of peace let us follow in their lead; but if they propose war let
                                the people of Indiana, without distinction of party buckle on their
                                armor and fight for the maintenance of the Constitution and the
                                Union. [Applause.]

                            [The remainder of Mr. Cravens's remarks will be written out by the
                                Reporter and appear hereafter.]

                            Mr. STEELE obtained the floor-

                            And on his motion the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        


                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. STEELE and Mr. MELLETT spoke in favor of the resolution, and Mr.
                                WOLFE and Mr. SLACK against it, occupying the session till about 5
                                o'clock. Their speeches will be written out by the reporter and
                                printed hereafter.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB obtained the floor-

                            And on his motion the Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 17, 1861. 
                        
                         Mr. ROBBINS and Mr. WILLIAMS asked and obtained leave to record their
                            votes in the election of United States Senator, yesterday-the former
                            voting for Joseph A. Wright, and the latter for Henry S. Lane.

                        The SPEAKER laid before the House the report of the State Librarian. 

                        
                            STANDING COMMITTEES OF THE HOUSE. 
                             The SPEAKER announced the Standing Committees, under the rule of the
                                House of Representatives, as follows:

                            

                                
                                        On Elections
                                    -Messrs. Ragan, Lightner, Pitts, Lods, Campbell, Feagler,
                                    Henricks. 

                                
                                        On the Judiciary
                                    -Messrs. Veatch, Bundy, Edson, Cason, Bingham, Jenkinson,
                                    Woodbull, Gresbam, Heffren. 

                                
                                        On Ways and Means
                                    -Messrs. Branham, Fisher, Heffren, Jones of Wayne, Sherman,
                                    Fordyce, Gifford. 

                                
                                        On Agriculture
                                    -Messrs. Thompson, Moorman,Harvey, Hudson, Davis, Turner,
                                    Collins of Adams.

                                
                                        On Banks 
                                    -Messrs Hopkins, Nebeker, Cram, Veatch, Owens, Trier. 

                                
                                         On Federal Relations
                                    -Messrs. Bundy, Gresham, Jones of Vermillion, Parrett,
                                    Newman, Ford, McLean.

                                
                                        On Education
                                    -Messrs. Grover, Lane, Orr, Collins of Adams, Veatch,
                                    Holcomb, Moss. 

                                
                                         On the Organization of Courts of Justice
                                    -Messrs. Bingham, Newman, McLean, McClurg, Parrett, Jones
                                    of Vermillion, Stotsenberg.

                                
                                        On the Penitentiary
                                    -Messrs. Jones of Vermillion, Grover, Bryant, Brucker,
                                    Dobbins, Owens, Collins of Huntington, Horton.

                                
                                         On Claims
                                    -Messrs. Sloan, Brucker, Boydston, Dobbins, Stephenson,
                                    Black, Atkinson.

                                

                                
                                         On Fees and Salaries
                                    -Messrs. Gresham, Burgess, Moody Roberts, Prosser, Cameron,
                                    Jones of Vermillion.

                                
                                        On Rights and Privileges of the Inhabitants of the
                                            State
                                    -Messrs. Orr, Hurd, Smith of Bartholomew, Lee, McClurg,
                                    Prosser, Sherman.

                                
                                         On Roads
                                    -Messrs. Wells, Hull, Holcomb, Fleming, Epperson, Randell,
                                    Prow.

                                
                                         On Manufactures and Commerce
                                    -Messrs. Burgess, Dobbins Dasheil, Orr, Moss, Wilson,
                                    Stephenson.

                                
                                        On County and Township Business
                                    -Messrs. Frasier, Grover, Brett, Jones, of Wayne, Lane,
                                    Ford, Wilson.

                                
                                         On Swamp Lands
                                    -Messrs. Moody, Bryant, Brett, Gore, Randall, Sherman,
                                    Dobbins.

                                
                                        On Benevolent Institutions
                                    -Messrs. Cameron, Kendrick, Woodruff, Branham, Heffren,
                                    Packard, Lee.

                                
                                         On Temperance
                                    -Messrs. Jones, of Tippecanoe, Wells, Turner, Prosser,
                                    Atkisson, Parrett, Frasier.

                                
                                         On Affairs of the Town of Indianapolis
                                    -Messrs. Kendrick, Ferguson, Warrum, Gore, Polk, Hays,
                                    Underwood.

                                
                                        On Canals
                                    -Messrs. Hopkins, Brett, Lee, Frailey, Ragan, Bryan,
                                    Howard.

                                
                                        On Public Expenditures
                                    -Messrs. Nebeker, Sherman, Smith, of Bartholomew, Knowlton,
                                    Lane, Woods, Robbins.

                                
                                         on Corporations
                                    -Messrs. Parrett, Hurd, Ford, Combs, Collins, of
                                    Huntington, Erwin, Cooprider.

                                
                                        On Enrolled Bills
                                    -Messrs. McLean, Frasier, Orr, Horton, Williams, Nebeker,
                                    Thomas.

                                
                                         On Engrossed Bills
                                    -Messrs. Anderson, Woodruff, Huts, McClurg, Kitchen,
                                    Thompson, Jones, of Wayne.

                            
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                             Mr. WOODHULL submitted a resolution, which was referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen, declaring that the
                                provisions of the Constitution of the United States are ample for
                                the preservation of the Union and the protection of the National
                                interests; that it needs to be obeyed rather than amended; and that
                                the remedies for present difficulties are to be looked for in
                                efforts to preserve and protect the property and enforce the laws,
                                rather than in new guarantees, compromises, and concessions to
                                unreasonable demands.

                            Mr. BUNDY submitted a joint resolution, which was referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen, setting forth, that
                                whereas the preservation of the Federal Union is an object of such
                                transcendent importance as to demand of every patriot the use of all
                                just means to prevent its dismemberment; and whereas, a friendly
                                interchange of opinion by people bound together by a common origin,
                                language, laws and literature, tends greatly to strengthen the bonds
                                of union and friendship; and whereas, the opinions and purposes of
                                the people of the Northern or non-slaveholding States of the Union
                                in reference to the domestic institutions of the Southern States
                                have been greatly misrepresented, and are very much misunderstood by
                                the people of those States; therefore resolved, &c., That His
                                Excellency, the Governor, be requested to appoint one or more of the
                                most eminent citizens of the State to proceed to such of our sister
                                slaveholding States of the border, whose Legislatures are now or
                                shortly hereafter may be in session, as he may deem proper ; and it
                                shall be the duty of such commissioner, by public addresses or
                                otherwise, to assure the people of those States of the sincere
                                desire of the people of Indiana to preserve the American Union, and
                                to protect all the' Constitutional rights of such slaveholding
                                States. 

                            Mr. ORR submitted resolutions, which go to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen, declaring that, whereas, there has been
                                great complaint made by certain of the States of the United States
                                against certain of the other States of the Republic, that they have
                                existing on their statute books laws conflicting with the
                                Constitution of the United States and the laws of Congress,
                                particularly the law known as the Fugitive Slave Law: therefore be
                                it resolved, that the Judiciary Committee shall
                                examine the statutes of the State of Indiana to ascertain if they
                                are in conflict with, or if there is any act or part of act now
                                having the form of law in the State of Indiana, which, is in
                                conflict with, or which will tend to hinder or prevent the just and
                                faithful execution of the laws of the United States, made in
                                pursuance of the second section of article four of the Constitution
                                of the United States, &c., and report to this House as soon as
                                practicable. 

                        
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                             Mr. NEWMAN presented the petition of sundry citizens of Wayne
                                county, asking for a modification in the law for the protection of
                                wild game-diminishing the time to from. March 1 to November 1-which
                                was referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. HOWARD presented the petition of N. Field, and other citizens of
                                Clark county, praying for authority for the admission of persons to
                                the Lunatic Asylum who have been rendered insane from epilepsy ;
                                which was read and referred to the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions.

                            Mr. HENRICKS presented the memorial of the Board of Commissioners of
                                the county of St. Joseph, praying for a repeal of the act exempting
                                from taxation the property of manual labor schools, to the extent of
                                350 acres of land. The memorial gives an example of the injurious
                                operation of said law in said county, in the incorporation of a
                                society of monks in Clay township-the same parties being also
                                incorporated as the University of Notre Dame du Lac, and asks that
                                manual labor schools be placed on the same footing with regard to
                                taxation, with other literary institutions.

                            On motion of Mr. HENRICKS, it was referred to the Committee
                                    on Ways and Means.

                            Mr. VEATCH presented the petition of four citizens of Spencer county,
                                asking for an efficient law for the protection of sheep against,
                                their destruction by dogs; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture. 

                        
                        

                        
                            GIBSON COUNTY COMMON PLEAS.
                             Mr. HOLCOMB, from the select committee thereon, returned the bill
                                [H. R. 12] to change the time of holding the Common Pleas Court in
                                Gibson county, recommending that it lie on the table, and reporting
                                a bill [No. 69] in lieu thereof for the same object, recommending
                                its passage. The bill [59] was accordingly passed the first and
                                second readings, under a suspension of the rules, and ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            

                            On motion by Mr. JENKINSON, it was ordered that the select
                                    committee on the Northern State Prison be
                                authorized to employ a clerk.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS submitted a resolution which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means in consideration
                                of the present financial embarrassments, to inquire into the
                                expediency of extending the time for the collection of taxes for
                                town county and State purposes.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, submitted a resolution which was adopted, for
                                the appointment of a special committee of three to inquire into the
                                powers and duties of county commissioners and township trustees in
                                regard to the construction of embankments for highways, &c.

                            The SPEAKER appointed Messrs Collins of Adams, Hopkins and Lee said
                                committee.

                            Mr. EDSON submitted an order which was adopted, authorizing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to employ a clerk.

                            Mr. RAGAN submitted an order, which was adopted by consent, that 200
                                copies of the Standing Committees of the House of Representatives
                                announced this morning be printed for the use of members.

                            Mr. ATKINSON submitted an order, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire into the
                                expediency of abolishing the Township Library system, and of
                                applying the Library Fund to the Common School Fund.

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, submitted an order to employ documentary
                                clerks for the business of the stationery room; which he withdrew,
                                with the understanding that the Stationery
                                    Committee first report the service to be
                                performed.

                            Mr. WOODRUFF submitted an order, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the law providing for the settlement of
                                decedants' estates, so as to authorize executors and administrators
                                to administer the necessary qualifications to appraisers of personal
                                property of estates. 

                        
                        

                        
                            NEGROES AND MULATTOES.
                             Mr. PROW submitted a resolution, that in the opinion of this House,
                                it is inexpedient to allow negroes and mulattoes to attend as
                                scholars in the common schools of the State, or to give testimony
                                against white persons.

                            On motion by Mr. BUNDY, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted an order, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Roads inquire into the
                                expediency of keeping the highways in repair by a poll and ad valorem tax, instead of by the present
                                system.

                            Mr. ROBBINS submitted an order, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Roads to inquire into the
                                expediency of requiring the supervisors of roads to require the two
                                days' work required annually by law to be applied between the first
                                day of June and the first day of October. 

                        
                        

                        
                            IDIOTS AND INSANE.
                             Mr. EDSON submitted a resolution directing the Committee on
                                    Benevolent Institutions to inquire into the expediency
                                of establishing a school for idiots, and an asylum for the benefit
                                of those unfortunate persons who have been admitted to the hospital
                                for the insane and pronounced incurable.

                            Mr. E. said: According to the present law we had no provision for
                                this class of persons The regulations of the Hospital provide that
                                no idiot shall be admitted; and that persons pronounced incurably
                                insane shall be sent back to their respective counties. It seemed to
                                him that the same benevolence which was extended to the curable
                                insane should not be withheld from idiots and the incurable insane.
                                The object of the resolution was to inquire into the expediency of
                                either establishing anew institution or making such additions to the
                                Insane Asylum as will accomplish the object.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. WARRUM submitted an order, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Roads to inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the Road law, so as to require a certain
                                number of days on the roads for personal privileges by such person
                                as are required by law to work on the roads. 

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                             Mr. STOTSENBURG submitted a resolution declaring that whereas this
                                House, in passing the resolution to refer all motions and
                                resolutions of a national character to the special
                                    Committee of Thirteen, expressed a desire to
                                have a report from that committee at an early day ; and whereas it
                                is due to the conservative people of this State that the voice of
                                Indiana should be heard on the side of peace and harmony amongst the
                                States of the Union, and in favor of measures of peacification and
                                conciliation ; therefore, resolved, that the said Committee of
                                Thirteen be required to report to this House next Monday the final
                                result of their action on all motions and resolutions of a national
                                character, that have been or may have been then brought before
                                them.

                            Mr. S. urged the adoption of this order from various considerations.
                                We had been officially informed by the late Governor, that we were
                                now unwilling witnesses of events pressing upon and imperatively
                                demanding our attention. The Governor elect had also informed us
                                that we were in the midst of events tending toward the disunion of
                                the States. Now it was important that the voice of this General
                                Assembly should be heard at an early day on the side of conciliation
                                and harmony, he felt that he would be false to the interests of the
                                county he represented here if he did not urge it upon the House that
                                a fair expression of the sentiments of the people of Indiana may be
                                given here speedily, such as shall assure the border States that we
                                are on the side of peace. His
                                people were suffering deeply in the present condition of affairs.
                                They earnestly desire this expression to be made. He could not speak
                                with the same assurance as to other counties, but he believed of the
                                whole State were anxious that this committee should report at an
                                early day. It was a matter conceded by every member that this thing
                                demands our immediate attention; and he hoped every member would be
                                willing now to instruct this committee to report. 


                            Mr. VEATCH. As a member of the Committeee of
                                    Thirteen, he would say merely that he represented a
                                district of country occupying the same position toward the border
                                slave States with that of the gentleman from Floyd; and he was
                                certainly just as anxious to have a report made at an early day as
                                that gentleman could be. But he did think it an unprecedented thing
                                to begin to urge upon a committee charged with such a grave matter,
                                to report within an hour after they had been announced. This
                                committee had riot yet had time to meet. Surely the gentleman would
                                restrain his impatience till the committee should have time to see
                                each others' faces. Expedition, he knew, was required, but indecent
                                haste, never.

                            Mr. PACKARD. I most heartily concur in the resolution of the
                                gentleman from Floyd, and the remarks he has submitted for its
                                support; and I certainly hope it will prevail. We have already been
                                in session a week, and yet no voice has gone up from this House in
                                reference to those matters which are of such vital importance, not
                                only to the people of this State, but our common country. It is far
                                from my purpose, Mr. Speaker, to urge forward this matter in order
                                to drag before this body a lengthy, partizan discussion. I trust
                                there is patriotism enough in this Chamber at this painful juncture
                                in our national affairs to sink all partizan feeling-all pride of
                                opinion-and rise to the rescue of a country our forefathers
                                purchased at so costly a sacrifice, and around which our dearest
                                hopes and interests cling.

                            Were each of us at this hour to appear before our constituents, what,
                                Mr. Speaker, would be the first question asked of us? Is there any
                                difference of opinion as to what that question would be? Would it
                                not be, " What are you doing at the capitol to avert the disasters
                                which so imminently threaten our country?" "Is not the great
                                conservative State of Indiana, through her General Assembly, to be
                                heard, and that too speedily, in this fearful crisis ?" In the face
                                of what we have done in this body, how would we answer that
                                constituency? Would we not hang our heads in confusion, and the
                                blush of shame mantle our cheeks ? Would we dare to answer them that
                                in our judgment matters of State legislation were of more importance
                                than questions o this kind, and that therefore we had deferred them
                                to a more convenient season? I tell you, Mr. Speaker, I fear our
                                delay will be more fatal than that of Felix when he said to Paul, go
                                thy way this time ; when I have a more convenient season I will send
                                for you."

                            The concerns of our State are of importance, I grant, but are they,
                                at this particular crisis, of that moment that measures are that
                                look to the pacification of our troubles, and the preservation of
                                the integrity of this Union. No, Mr. Speaker; all excuses of this
                                kind would fall to the ground, before the face of an indignant
                                constituency.

                            As I said before, we have already been in session about a week, and
                                we have, in the mean time, introduced several bills, elected a
                                number of officers, passed a series of unimportant resolutions,
                                spent considerable time discussing the number of pages we would have
                                upon this floor, qualified and inaugurated two Governors, but not
                                one thing has been done for our distracted and divided country. On
                                the contrary, we have ignored the fearful crisis, by refusing to
                                hear and discuss any question looking to the disturbed condition of
                                federal relations. Was this the case, Mr. Speaker, when events of no
                                greater importance were crowding themselves upon an assembly in the
                                city of Philadelphia, a little more than 84 years ago ?

                            I don't know how it is with other gentlemen upon this floor, but I do
                                know that my constituents are looking with intense anxiety to the
                                action of this Legislature in behalf of the Union. Irrespective of
                                party they demanded of me, as a member of this body, that there
                                should be prompt and early action in this behalf, and that Indiana
                                should early show herself to be on the side of the Union, and for
                                the peaceable adjustment of all the difficulties surrounding our
                                country.

                            The citizens, in various parts of the State, irrespective of party,
                                are holding Union-meetings, and in speeches and resolutions,
                                expressing the sentiments that inspire them, and shall we, alone, be
                                silent? We, of all the people, stand with folded hands, and look
                                with indifference upon the events and issues s,o thickly crowding
                                upon us? We, alone, turn a deaf ear to the mutterings of the
                                gathering storm, and heed not the voice of patriotism calling upon
                                us for help to save a common country ? God forbid that we should
                                thus betray the sacred trust reposed in us that we should thus prove
                                recreant to our high duty! It is a time for action-a time for
                                counsel-as was expressed in the noble address introduced by the
                                gentleman from Gibson, on Thursday morning, " events of an age are
                                crowding themselves into an hour." At such a crisis, then, inaction
                                becomes something more than impolitic, it becomes criminal. Let us
                                then- 

                             "Act, act in this living present, Heart within,
                                and God overhead." 

                            For these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I earnestly  hope the resolution of the gentleman
                                from Floyd will prevail.

                            Mr. HEFFREN was sorry the resolution had been introduced. If it were
                                proper to rehearse private conversation, Democrats here, he
                                supposed, would be satisfied with an explanation he could make. He
                                made this explanation in justice to the chairman of that Committee,
                                Mr. Bundy.

                            Mr. BUNDY. In addition to the explanation of the gentleman from
                                Washington and Harrison, it might be proper for him to say, for
                                himself, that he did not yet know, and had not been able to find all
                                the members of the Committee: and such had been the press of
                                business, that it had been utterly impossible for him to do more
                                than be had done. To satisfy those desiring an early report, he
                                would say, that such of the members of the Committee as he had been
                                able to see and converse with, had agreed that we should have an
                                early report. He had no doubt that, by the middle of next week, the
                                Committee would be ready to submit a report. Whether it would be
                                such a report as all could agree upon or not, he could not say, of
                                course; but he trusted that it might be so. He would say further,
                                that there was no desire on the part of" the Committee to delay
                                action.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG had no desire to cast any reflection upon the
                                Committee. He did not press for a report before the Senatorial
                                election. He was willing, under the circumstances, to withdraw the
                                resolution. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JUSTICES' JURISDICTION.
                             Mr. HAWORTH submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expediency ot so amending the 10th section of that act providing for
                                the election of a justice of the peace, and defining their
                                jurisdiction, as to give them jurisdiction in cases founded on
                                contract and tort, where the sum does not exceed $300. 

                        
                        

                        
                            EPILEPTICS AND IDIOTS.
                             Mr. CAMERON submitted an order, which was adopted, requiring the
                                    Committee on Benevolent Institutions to
                                inquire into the expediency of taking the initiative at the present
                                session of the General Assembly for establishing an asylum for
                                epileptic patients and for the care of idiots. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ADJOURNMENT FOR SATURDAYS.
                             Mr. BUNDY submitted an amendment of the rules requiring the
                                adjournments on Saturdays to be from 11 o'clock a.m., till Monday 2
                                o'clock p.m.; which lies over one day. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFFAIRS OF THE NORTHERN STATE PRISON.
                             Mr. VEATCH submitted an order to increase the number of the
                                    Committee to Investigate the Northern State
                                    Prison to nine.

                            Mr. V. said this matter had been suggested to him. He had. no
                                interest in it, himself, but supposed there would be something of a
                                spicy war got up over it between his friends from the North. All he
                                desired was that they might have a fair hearing. As the Committee
                                was now constituted, there was no member to represent the present
                                location He asked that at least one member be added to have an eye
                                to that.

                            Mr. JENKINSON hoped the House would not increase the Committee. There
                                appeared to be a peculiar concern on the part of the Directors of
                                the Prison, and a great deal of outside pressure. Let the Committee
                                stand, and if he did not show that a baser fraud was never
                                committed, he would give it up. 

                            The SPEAKER stated again that he had endeavored carefully to fill the
                                Committee with disinterested men.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The Committee were only to inquire into the alleged
                                frauds in the case.

                            Mr. CAMERON. The eligibility of the location was part of the inquiry.
                                His amendment to leave that out did not prevail. He understood that
                                it was the intention of the gentleman from Allen to show that the
                                location was bad. Why. then, should not at least, one man be added
                                to the Committee, knowing something of the location, &c. There
                                was one thing in favor of the present location. It was where all the
                                goods manufactured would be carried out of the State.

                            Mr. BINGAAM was in favor of increasing the number, as asked in the
                                resolution.

                            Mr. GRESHAM thought it evident there was going to be a strike against
                                the location at Michigan City, and that it was no more than right
                                that the friends of that location should be represented on the
                                Committee.

                            Mr. PACKARD was about midway between Fort Wayne and Michigan City. He
                                concurred with the gentleman from Porter, thinking it inexpedient to
                                revise the location. But since it was to be done, Michigan City
                                ought to be represented.

                            Mr. VEATCH modified his resolution so ns to ask for but an increase
                                of one instead of two-making eight members.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend by submitting that the committee
                                inquire what amount of money has been expended in the location and
                                construction of said prison ; how much it would require to finish
                                the same; and what it would cost to add 400 cells in a suitable and
                                proper addition to the old prison at Jeffersonville, sufficient to
                                provide for the accommodation of 400 additional convicts. 

                             The SPEAKER ruled the amendment out of order.

                            Mr. JENKINSON spoke of $91,000 of expense incurred-of the equivocal
                                position of parties concerned-of the disadvantages of the location
                                at Michigan-six miles to haul sand! He did riot think anything
                                obtained in fraud could be right.

                            Mr. GRESHAM did not think this the proper time to make charges.

                            

                             Mr. SHERMAN concurred. When the proper time should come, they would
                                be ready to vindicate the claims of the present location. It was
                                certainly the object in the proposed investigation to give the North
                                a fair represention. But in the organization of the
                                    Standing Committee on the Penitentiary he
                                perceived that there was not an individual on it presenting the
                                North. So the Standing Committee could not be expected in this
                                respect to operate as a check on the Special Committee. If the
                                committee were to investigate the claims of the location, he held
                                that there should be some person on it acquainted with the location
                                and the amount of work done. He denied the right of the Special
                                Committee to assume the duties of the Standing Committee.

                            Mr. JENKINSON demanded the yeas and nays, which were taken, and the
                                order was adopted by yeas 84, nays 13.

                            The SPEAKER accordingly appointed Mr. Sherman the additional member
                                of the committee.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted an order, which was adopted, that the committee
                                to investigate the Northern State Prison inquire and report what
                                propositions have been made by any person or persons in any part of
                                the State for the location of the prison, site at any given point. 

                        
                        

                        
                            RAILROAD APPRAISEMENTS.
                             Mr. GROVER submitted a resolution which was adopted, requiring the
                                Auditor of State to inform the House what railroads have been
                                re-appraised under the provisions of the 86th section of the
                                appraisement law of 1852, &c.; and whether, &c.

                            Mr. BURGESS submitted an order that the committee to
                                    investigate the affairs of the Northern State Prison
                                be allowed the privilege of employing one or more messengers, as may
                                be necessary for their investigation.

                            Mr. PARRETT proposed to amend by making the number definite-one or
                                two.

                            Mr. BURGESS. One man could not do the work. He was willing to accept
                                two.

                            And so the order was adopted.

                            Mr. FRASIER moved to reconsider the vote adopting Mr. Heffren's order
                                above. Me lived in a town where no proposition had been made for the
                                location of the prison, and could speak without any suspicion of
                                interested motives. He considered that the people of the State could
                                not be concerned to know what inducement may have been offered for
                                the location, and that this proposition would result in nothing but
                                waste of money.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG seconded the motion. The only proper inquiry at this
                                time was, whether we ought to go on and finish this Northern Prison,
                                or whether money would not be saved by throwing away what has been
                                done, and making additional cells to the Jeffersonville Prison. He
                                was opposed to inquiring into alleged frauds when nothing practical
                                could be gained by it.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. It was well known that excitement had been raised in
                                Fort Wayne and Logansport about this location ; and it had been
                                alleged that citizens of the latter place had raised and tendered a
                                certain sum of money for the location. If madam rumor was to be
                                credited, these places were as deep in the mire as Michigan City. He
                                was sorry to hear the gentleman from Allen say there had been fraud
                                ; but since there was to be an examination, let it be seen if those
                                of any other locality have been trying to get their hands
                                fraudulently into the people's pockets. He hoped this would not, be
                                made a one-sided investigation. Let us approach the question as we
                                ought to-probe it, to the bottom. It seemed to be a, case of
                                rivalship between two or three cities. May be some of them had been
                                cheated. For all the purposes of fairness and impartiality, he
                                believed the business of the committee, would have been better done
                                without, either the gentleman from Allen or the gentleman from
                                Laporte. 

                             Mr. FRASIER. If he understood it, the inquiry was whether any fraud
                                had been committed either in the location or construction. But this
                                resolution directed an inquiry into all kinds of frauds, if any have
                                been made, to influence the location. What matters it if the
                                citizens of Fort Wayne had offered lands or if they had corruptly
                                offered the commissioners money, so long as their money had not been
                                accepted? If he understood it, the investigation does not
                                contemplate matters of this kind. If the bribe offered had not been
                                received, did it import anything? Were the commissioners chargeable
                                with fraud? It might be a different question if it could, be proved
                                that a corrupt bribe had been offered received. But the allegation
                                did not cover that.

                            Mr. CAMERON. The history of this Northern Prison had placed a figure
                                on the history of the State; therefore it, had been proposed to
                                investigate it. Let it be thorough and complete. It was well known
                                that the commissioners at the first made the location at Fort Wayne.
                                Now we wish to know by what means it was located at Fort Wayne, as
                                well as by what menas Michigan City was able to over-size her
                                pile.

                            Mr. JENKINSON had seen the record-wanted a full investigation. Fort
                                Wayne would meet the gentleman, and if she didn't show a clean
                                record, he would give it up. But if a damnable conspiracy were
                                proved, he wanted the House to condemn it.

                            Mr. PARRETT saw no good to result from going into an investigation
                                for the purpose of ministering to the passions of gentlemen. It
                                would be wholly useless expense. He would vote for the
                                reconsideration.

                            Mr. BUNDY concurred. He had no preference as to where this
                                institution should be located. He would vote for the
                                reconsideration,  but was
                                opposed to the whole of it-opposed to the investigation
                                itself-because we did not need this Penitentiary. He was for
                                repealing the law authorizing this prison, and establishing a House
                                of Correction. We did not want this Northern Prison. It was the
                                original intention that it should cost but $50, 000. Now it appeared
                                that it was to cost three-quarters of a million. It might be the
                                cheapest investment the State could make of this $50,000 just to let
                                it go.

                            On motion of Mr. GRESHAM the motion to reconsider was laid on the
                                table.

                            The SPEAKER announced the Committee of Invitation to the
                                    President elect of the United States, viz : Messrs,
                                Cameron, Branham, Jones of Vermillion' Veatch, Henricks, Stotsenberg
                                and Packard. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SCHOOL MONEY.
                             Mr. STOTSENBERG presented a preamble and resolution, which was
                                adopted, setting forth, that it appears from the 8th annual report
                                of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, that there is now
                                $255,000 which has not been distributed amongst the counties, and
                                directing the Committee on Education to inquire
                                into the expediency of authorizing the several County Treasurers to
                                retain their pro rata shares, &c.

                            On motion by Mr. WOODS, the Committee on Public
                                    Expenditures was authorized to employ a clerk.

                            Mr. KITCHEN submitted an order, that the Committee on
                                    Mileage report on the expediency of changing the law
                                regulating the mileage of sheriffs earring convicts to the
                                Penitentiary, &c.

                            The SPEAKER. There is no Committee on Mileage
                                under the rules of the House.

                            On motion by Mr. STOTSENBERG, it was referred to the
                                    Committee on Public Expenditures.

                            On the motion of Mr. TURNER, the Auditor of State was directed to
                                inform the House what sums have been paid to the Attorney General
                                since the 1st of January, 1859, on account of cases attended in the
                                Supreme Court. 

                        
                        

                        
                            LAW OF DESCENT.
                             Mr. BRUCKER submitted a resolution which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary to inquire into
                                the expediency of amending the law for descent of lands held by
                                foreigners having declared their intention to become citizens in
                                such manner that their property shall descend to their heirs the
                                same as though they had been citizens of the United States.

                            The House then adjourned. 
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            FRIDAY, January 18, 1861.
                        
                         On motion by Mr. SHIELDS the joint resolution [H. R. 9] directing the
                            State Auditor to draw his warrant upon the Treasury for any moneys
                            ordered for postage stamps, or mileage and per diem of Members, and per
                            diem of Officers, on the order of the Presiding Officer of either House,
                            was taken up and adopted by yeas 40, nays 9. 

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
                             Announced the passage of a resolution invit ing the Senate to a
                                joint convention at 10 o'clock this day for the purpose of electing
                                a State Librarian, Canal Trustee and Agent of State.

                            On motion by Mr. CONNER the invitation was accepted. 

                        
                        

                        
                            PRINTING OF EXECUTIVE MESSAGES.
                             Mr. TURNER, by leave, offered a resolution ordering the printing of
                                2000 copies of Ex-Governor Lane's Message in English and 2000 in
                                German ; which he amended at the instance of Mr. WAGNER so as to
                                provide for the printing of 4000 copies each of Ex-Governors Lane
                                and Hammond, in English and 1000 of each in German.

                            Mr. LINE. I move to amend the resolution by including General
                                Washington's Farewell address. If there ever was a time when the
                                American people ought to listen to the warning voice of the Father
                                of his country, the present is the time. Certainly no evil could
                                grow out of printing that Address with the Governors' Messages.

                            The amendment was agreed to, and the resolution, as amended, was
                                adopted.

                            [Mr.NEWCOMB presented a petition from members of the bar of Marion
                                county in reference to a change of circuit; which on his motion was
                                referred to the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, without reading.] 

                        
                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE GOVERNOR
                            Announced the appointment of William R. Holloway as his Private
                                Secretary. 

                        
                        

                        
                            COUNTY TREASURERS.
                             Mr. SHIELDS offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Judiciary Committee to inquire into
                                the expediency of amending the law in relation to the receipt of
                                taxes so that the Collector shall visit the various townships in the
                                month of January. 

                        
                        

                        
                            BANK SECURITIES.
                             Mr. NEWCOMB offered a resolution, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Banks, instructing that
                                Committee to inquire into the expediency of amending the Free
                                Banking Law; first, that hereafter, no other than Indiana State
                                Stocks shall be received as security for the circulation of said
                                Banks, &c. &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NORTHERN STATE PRISON.
                             Mr. WOLFE offered a resolution authorizing the appointment of a
                                select committee of five to visit the Northern Penitentiary, examine
                                minutely into the affairs, &c., with power to send for persons
                                and papers, and report at an early day.

                            Mr. CONNER. There has already a resolution been adopted, instructing
                                the Standing 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 24, 1861
                        No. 5
                    

                    
                        

                        

                            
                                Committee on the State Prison to make this very
                                investigation alluded to. It seems to me to be incurring an
                                additional expense which is not called for, inasmuch as the Standing
                                Committee is entirely competent.

                            Mr. HAMILTON. I hope this matter will be thoroughly investigated. It
                                might appear to Senators that I have personal considerations in the
                                matter, and I merely rise to disclaim that, while I hesitate not in
                                giving my opinion that a more corrupt transaction has never taken
                                place in Indiana than the location of that prison. I have confidence
                                in the Committee on the State Prison.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. If our Standing Committees are worth anything, they
                                ought to do their business. I insist upon a fair and impartial
                                investigation of this matter by a fair and impartial jury, created
                                without direct reference to this particular question. We have heard
                                of packing juries, and I opine we have all heard of packing select
                                committees.

                            Mr. WOLFE. My recollection in regard to the action taken heretofore
                                is, that it does not go to the proper extent. It is possible the
                                resolution may be modified so as to suit gentlemen. I have no
                                sinister motives in the matter, but I desire an impartial
                                investigation.

                            The resolution was amended without objection, by directing the
                                resolution to the Committee on the
                                Penitentiary.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, the Committee were instructed to act in
                                conjunction with the House Committee on the State
                                    Prison.

                            The resolution, as so amended, was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RENT OF THE FEDERAL COURT ROOM. 
                             Mr. LINE offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                instructing the Committee on Federal Relations to
                                inquire whether a claim has been presented to Congress for rent for
                                the Federal Court Room in the State House in compliance with joint
                                resolution No. 14, of the last Legislature.

                            [Mr. WAGNER presented a memorial from Benjamin F. Gregory and others,
                                which, on his motion, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Claims, without reading.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            KILLING OF STOCK BY RAILROAD COMPANIES. 
                             Mr. COBB offered a resolution, instructing the Judiciary
                                    Committee to report a bill giving a more perfect
                                remedy against railroad companies in the State to owners of stock
                                killed by locomotives and cars.

                            Mr. COBB. In my own county in the past twelve months, there has not
                                been a loss of less than $2,500 by the Mississippi R. R. and the
                                Louisville, New Albany and Chicago R. R. and although I believe my
                                constituents are as loyal to the laws of the country as any other
                                gentleman's, yet I do believe if things go on as they have done in
                                the past year, it will not be twelve months until the track of these
                                railroads will be torn up.

                            Mr. RAY. I desire to urge upon the Senate the necessity of taking
                                some action in this matter. It is a very serious grievance to the
                                portion of my constituents living upon the line of railroads.

                            Mr. SHIELDS. The people of Jackson and Jennings counties are well
                                know to be for the maintainance of the laws, but I have feared for
                                the last few years as to what would be the result unless some more
                                stringent legislation were had on this subject.

                            Mr. JOHNSON moved to amend the resolution by making it one of
                                expediency.

                            The PRESIDENT. The hour of 10 o'clock having arrived, and the House
                                being in waiting for the Senate, Senators will at once repair to the
                                Representatives' Hall.

                            When the Senate returned-

                            [Mr. LINE asked and obtained leave of absence for Mr. Ferguson during
                                the coming week.]

                            The amendment was agreed to, and the resolution, as amended, was
                                adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SPECIAL TERMS OF CIRCUIT COURTS.
                             Mr. WOLFE offered a resolution, which was adopted, inquiring of the
                                    Judiciary Committee whether there is any law
                                for the holding of special terms of Circuit Courts, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SHEEP-KILLING DOGS.
                             Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, instructing the Committee
                                    on Agriculture to report a, bill for the better
                                protection of the wool-growing interest of the State, having for its
                                basis compensation to persons sustaining loss by sheep-killing
                                dogs.

                            Mr. JONES urged the passage of a law upon this subject, otherwise we
                                might as well abandon the idea of raising sheep in Indiana.

                            Mr. LINE. It is true the agricultural interests are suffering largely
                                from the destruction of this
                                kind of stock, and calls loudly for protection at our hands.

                            Mr. MILLER. A number of my constituents regard this as a matter of
                                some importance. In my section the sheep-growing community seriously
                                suffer by dogs in consequence of the great number of these animals
                                which are allowed to run at large. I doubt not the
                                    Agricultural Committee will devise some means
                                by which this evil may be done away with.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            [On motion it was ordered that, when the Senate adjourn this
                                afternoon, it be till Monday next at 2 o'clock P. M.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            NUMBERING COMMON PLEAS DISTRICTS.
                             Mr. MILLER offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts to
                                inquire into the expediency of numbering the districts established
                                for common pleas purposes. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF U. S. SENATOR.
                             Mr. DICKINSON offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                authorizing the appointment of a committee of seven to inquire what
                                legislation is necessary in relation to the manner of electing U. S.
                                Senators. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SCHOOL LAW AND SCHOOL FUND.
                             Mr. JOHNSON offered resolutions, which were adopted by consent,
                                instructing the Committee on Education to inquire
                                into the expediency of amending the school law, so as to allow
                                widows having children to vote at school meetings; and whether there
                                is any law authorizing the loaning or distributing of the school
                                funds arising from estates without heirs, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SMOKING IN LOBBIES. 
                             On motion by Mr. BEESON, it was ordered that the Doorkeeper prevent
                                smoking in the lobbies while the Senate is in session. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION.
                             Mr. MARCH offered joint resolutions proposing amendments to the
                                Constitution, so that towns and cities shall have power by taxation
                                to raise money for the support of common schools, and giving the
                                Legislature power to fix the qualifications of votes; which were
                                referred to the select Committee on Amendments to the
                                    Constitution. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NORTHERN STATE PRISON.
                             Mr. WAGNER offered a joint resolution providing for joint action of
                                the State Prison Committees of the two Houses in the investigation
                                of the affairs of the State Penitentiary at Michigan City.Pending
                                the consideration of which The Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. CONNER moved to amend the joint resolution by authorizing the
                                appointment of a committee of two on the part of the Senate, to be
                                selected from the Standing Committee on the State
                                    Prison, and three on the part of the House, to which
                                shall be referred ail matters relating to the Northern Prison,
                                including a personal examination thereof.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN lived in that part of the State. The charge has been
                                made boldly that there has been a swindle and bad management in the
                                location of the Penitentiary at Michigan City. Now that a committee
                                has got to investigate this matter, he would like the interests of
                                the whole State represented of the committee. The matter is worthy
                                of a thorough investigation. Some people seem to think that this
                                Prison has been built on a sand bank, and that, Lake Michigan, will
                                wash under it and sink it. On the contrary there could be no better
                                location found in the State. There is no place in the State where it
                                could be located that would work less injury to the mechanical
                                interest; while it will prove a source of more revenue to the state
                                than it could possibly if located at any other point. He was well
                                satisfied that if a committee goes up there and examines the ground,
                                they cannot report otherwise than favorable.

                            Mr. MELLETT thought it would be more likely to be a fair
                                investigation before a large than a sraall committee. For one he was
                                determined that the matter should be thoroughly investigated, and
                                insisted that it should be done by the entire Committee on the State
                                Prision.

                            Mr. LANDERS was opposed to the resolution and thought it much better
                                to have the large committee on the State Prison, which was selected
                                by the Senate without a view to personal interest. If there was
                                fraud committed he wanted it exposed.

                            Mr. MILLER objected to the amendment for the reason that the
                                committee proposed is composed of too small a number, entirely, for
                                the investigation that ought to be made. The proposition of the
                                gentleman from Warren, [Mr. Wagner,] is probably the best.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON was opposed to the amendment and preferred that the
                                responsibility should be left to the regular standing committee.

                            Mr. MURRAY agreed with the Senator from Monroe, [Mr. Tarkington,] and
                                courted a full and fair investigation.

                            Mr. MARCH hoped the amendment would be adopted; he could not think of
                                sending seventeen or eighteen stalwart men up there when five could
                                do the business as well.

                            Mr. TURNER understood that the Legislature was to be invited to visit
                                Michigan City in a body before the close of the session; to be
                                furnished with free passes over the railroads and with free
                                entertainment while there.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB thought that the best proposition yet made.
                                [Laughter.]

                            Mr. BEARSS would rather see gentlemen desirous of curtailing expenses
                                where it would  be of no
                                practical benefit, and referred to the expenses of the Committee
                                appointed to wait upon Mr. Lincoln at the State Line, to escort him
                                to the Capital. The expenses of that Committee may be as much as the
                                expenses of the Committee visiting the Northern prison.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL regarded this as an effort to take from the
                                    Prison Committee matters germain to it, and
                                give them to another Committee. With the Senator from Floyd. [Mr.
                                Anthony] he raised his voice against such proceedings.

                            The amendment was rejected, and the resolution was adopted. 


                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                 The following bills were introduced, and severally passed to the
                                    second reading:

                                By Mr. HULL: [S. 41] Supplementary to an act to amend sections 1
                                    and 2 of an act to provide for compensation to the owners of
                                    animals killed by railroads, approved March 1. 1853; and to
                                    provide the manner of the service of process, approved March 6,
                                    1859. " 

                                By Mr. CONLEY : [S. 42] To amend section 8 and 10 of the
                                    Justices' act of June 9, 1852; so that the bond shall be from
                                    two to six thousand dollars; jurisdiction not to exceed 200, but
                                    they may confess in any sum not exceeding $300.

                                By Mr. TURNER, [S. 48.] To authorize the formation of new
                                    counties, change county boundaries, and repeal all laws
                                    inconsistent therewith. On his motion the rules were
                                    suspended-yeas 40, nays 0-the bill read by title the first and
                                    second time, and referred to the special committee on that
                                    subject.

                                By Mr. WILSON. [S. 44.] To make a copy of the register, catalogue
                                    and description of land sold at any land office of the United
                                    States within this State procured by the board of commissioners
                                    of any county from the Auditor of State, prima
                                        facia evidence of the truth of their contents

                                By Mr. MELLETT. [S. 45.] To amend sec. 3 of an act to provide for
                                    the election of a Reporter of the Decisions of the Supreme
                                    Court, &c, approved February 5, 1852, to prohibit the
                                    publication of briefs in the court decisions.

                                By Mr. LANDERS. [S. 46.] To amend sections 57 and 59 of an act
                                    defining misdemeanors, approved June 14, 1852, to prevent
                                    illegal voting.

                                 By Mr. LANDERS. [S. 47.] To amend sections 5 and 21 of an act
                                    regulating general elections, approved June 7, 1852, so as to
                                    preserve the purity of elections.

                                By Mr. CRAVEN. [S. 48.] To provide compensation to owners of
                                    animals killed or injured by the cars, locomotives or other
                                    carriages of any railroad company in this State.

                                By Mr. NEWCOMB. [S. 49.] To provide for struck juries in circuit
                                    and common pleas courts. 

                                By Mr. O'BRIEN. [3.50.] To amend see. 59 of an act to repeal the
                                    general laws in force for the incorporation of cities, to
                                    provide for the incorporation of cities, &c. approved March
                                    9, 1857.

                                By Mr. MURRAY. [S. 51.] To amend sections 95, 97, 99 and 101 of
                                    an act to provide for a general system of common schools,
                                    &c., approved March 5, 1855, so as to require county
                                    auditors to send their statement of school funds collected to
                                    the State Superintendent befere the second Monday of January;
                                    the superintendent to apportion the school money by the 15th of
                                    February; the county treasurer to distribute the school money on
                                    2d Monday of March, &c., &c.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL. [S 52.] To amend sec. 852 of the Practice act,
                                    approved June 18f 1852, so that the court may grant new trials
                                    on the payment of costs.

                                [Mr. STEELE asked and obtained leave of absence for Mr. White, on
                                    account of sickness in his family.]

                                By. Mr. MILLER. [S. 53.] To provide a proper office for the use
                                    of county surveyors, providing books for recording surveys,
                                    defining duties prescribing fees.

                                By Mr. LINE. [S. 54.] Regulating docket fees in the Court of
                                    Common Pleas, and providing that the salary of district attorney
                                    shall be $600.

                                By Mr. CONLEY. [S. 55.] Providing for stationery and postage ($20
                                    each) for members of the Legislature, for the employment of
                                    reporters, and the publication of its proceedings in certain
                                    newspapers.

                                By Mr. TURNER. [S. 56.] To amend sec. 10 of an act to authorize
                                    the formation of new counties, and to change county boundaries,
                                    approved March 7, 1857, so as to allow new counties to be formed
                                    out of territories of let-a than four hundred square miles.

                                [The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate the report of the branch
                                    bank of the State at Terre Haute.]

                                [On motion by Mr. LINE, Senator Miller was placed on the
                                    committee to which is referred all proposed amendments to the
                                    Constitution.]

                                By Mr. WOLFE. [S. 57.] To amend sec. 1 of the assessment act,
                                    approved June 21,1852, authorizing the levying of a poll tax by
                                    county boards.

                                By Mr. SHOEMAKER. [S. 58.] To amend sections 4 and 5 of an act
                                    relative to the salaries of public affairs, approved March 5,
                                    1859. making the docket fees "three" and "five" dollars instead
                                    of "one" and "four" dollars.

                                And then-

                                On motion the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, January 
                                    18
                                    19
                                , 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                             Mr. ORR presented a petition, which, without reading, was referred
                                to the Committee on Rights and Privileges. 

                            

                            Mr. JONES, of Wayne, presented the petition of sundry citizens of the
                                State, asking for a law for the protection of fish, similar to the
                                Ohio fish law, which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. BLACK presented the petition of sundry citizens of Orange county,
                                asking for tin repeal of the New County Law of March 7 1857, and the
                                amendments thereto of March 6. 1859; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                business.

                            Mr. BRANHAM presented the petition of J. L. Mansfield, and others,
                                asking for such legislation as shall secure the rights of resident
                                aliens and their heirs, in the matter of holding, inheriting, and
                                conveying real estate ; which was referred to the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            LIBRARIAN, CANAL TRUSTEE, STATE AGENT.
                             Mr. BUNDY submitced a joint order, that the House will (the Senate
                                concurring proceed in joint convention this day at 10 o'clock, to
                                the election of State Librarian, Canal Trustee, and State Agent.

                            On motion by Mr. BUNDY, it was ordered that the Committee on
                                    Education be increased by two members. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS. 
                             Mr. ROBERTS submitted resolutions, which were adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Benevolent Institutions to
                                inquire into and investigate the present condition and management of
                                the Hospital for the Insane: 2. To ascertain whether the present
                                building is large enough for the reception, accommodation and proper
                                treatment of all entitled to the benefits of the same: 3. To report
                                an estimate of the cost to complete the north wing of the building,
                                according to its original design, and how many patients such
                                addition would accommodate: 4. Whether it is not expedient and
                                necessary to complete the building according to its original design,
                                within as short a time as practicable.

                            Mr. ANDERSON submitted a resolution, setting forth that there is no
                                law of the State regulating the guage of wagons, and directing the
                                proper committee to consider this subject, and report.

                            It was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.

                            Mr. MOODY submitted an order, which was adopted, that the Doorkeeper
                                procure 500 copies of the Report of the Swamp Land
                                    Investigating Committee of last session, and cause
                                them to be laid on the desks of members.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS submitted an order, which was adopted, requesting the
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction to inform this House who are
                                the Trustees of the Indiana University, when they were elected,
                                &c.

                            Mr. SLOAN submitted a preamble and resolution, requesting Messrs.
                                Jenkinson and Sherman to resign their places on the Special
                                    Committee to investigate the Northern State Prison, on
                                account of their respective interests in the location thereof.

                            Mr. PARRETT stated that this was not to be taken as a personal
                                reflection on either of these gentlemen, but only to release them
                                from an onerous duty.

                            On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, it was laid the table.

                            Mr. HURD submitted an order, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the laws relative to the distribution of
                                School Fund, so as to give to each school district in the township
                                an equal amount of money.

                            Mr. OWENS submitted on order, instructing the Judiciary
                                    Committee to inquire into the expediency of so
                                amending the law as to make it the duty of the County Recorder to
                                issue marriage licenses instead of the County Clerk.

                            A Senate message announced the concurrence of that body in the House
                                joint resolution in regard to the postage, pay and mileage of
                                members aud officers ; also in regard to the election this day of
                                Librarian, State Agent and Canal Trustee.

                            Mr. ORR submitted a joint resolution [18] in relation to National
                                Affairs, which was referred to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen. 

                            
                                
                                    
                                         WHEREAS, There are many persons
                                            living under the Government of the United States, who
                                            boldly assert and affirm that the Government of the
                                            United States is a compact to which the people of the
                                            several States, as separate and sovereign-communities,
                                            are the parties, and that each of these sovereign
                                            parties have the right, whenever they choose to exercise
                                            it, of annulling this compact, and of seceding from the
                                            Government of the United States, and organizing for
                                            themselves separate and sovereign States or National
                                            Governments, wholly and in every way independent of the
                                            Government of the United States; therefore

                                         Resolved, by the General Assembly of the
                                                State of Indiana, That the Government of the
                                            United States is one founded on the ordination or
                                            adoption of the people and creating relations between
                                            itself and individuals; that no State authority has the
                                            power to dissolve these relations, and that there is no
                                            way whereby they may be resolved other than by
                                            successful revolution.

                                        Be it further resolved, That our
                                            Senators in Congress instructed, and our Representatives
                                            requested, to use their influence to secure the adoption
                                            of such measure as will effectually secure and preserve
                                            the integrity, entirety and perpetuity of the Union, and
                                            to favor the adoption of such laws as will bring to
                                            condign punishment any person or persons who may annul
                                            or endeavor to anuul or resist the execution of any of
                                            the laws of the United States, whether the person or
                                            persons so annulling or| endeavoring to annul or resist
                                            the execution of the law acting, or professing to act,
                                            in their individual capacity as the officers or
                                            representatives of a State or any number of States.

                                        AND WHEREAS, South Carolina and
                                            certain other of the States have already seceded, or at
                                            least passed ordinances of secession from the General
                                            Government, therefore.

                                        Resolved, That we deeply deplore the
                                            hasty and precipitate action of our sister States, and,
                                            pointing them to our common origin, to our happy and
                                            prosperous history, to our present powerful and
                                            commanding position among the nations of the earth, and
                                            to the glorious future, which, if we remain united,
                                            surely awaits us, we do entreat them to retrace their
                                            steps, and to return to duty as constituent and integral
                                            parts of our common country.

                                        Resolved, That we do recommend to the
                                            General Government, that a spirit of moderation and
                                            conciliation to 
                                            pursued towards these, our States, in the hope that they
                                            may thus be won back to the path of duty.

                                        Resolved, However, that if at any time,
                                            it should become necessary to resort to force in order
                                            to secure the execution of any of the laws of the United
                                            States, anywhere within the jurisdiction of the United
                                            States, that we pledge the State of Indiana as willing
                                            and ready to furnished one hundred thousand men to the
                                            General Government, in order to enforce the laws of the
                                            Union, whenever, wherever, and by whomsoever their
                                            execution may be resisted. 

                                        WHEREAS, One reason given by the
                                            seceding States for the course they have been and are
                                            pursuing, is that certain other States have passed laws
                                            tending to hinder and prevent the execution of the law
                                            of the United States, known as the Fugitive Slave Law,
                                            approved September 18, 1850; therefore

                                        Resolved, That we do deny that the
                                            State of Indiana has, or ever had, any such law, or any
                                            law upon her statute books, the tendency of which was
                                            directly or indirectly to hinder or obstruct the
                                            execution of any law of the United States, or in any way
                                            calculated to do violence to any of the constitutional
                                            rights of any citizen of the United States, and that we
                                            successfully point to our statute books as a refutation
                                            of the charge, as far as the State of Indiana is
                                            concerned.

                                        Resolved, That we recommend to our
                                            sister States, that if any such laws are in force in
                                            their jurisdiction, that a strict regard for the
                                            constitutional rights of the citizens of our sister
                                            Southern States, would suggest a repeal of the same. 

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             [A message from the Governor announced that he had appointed Wm. R.
                                Holloway his Private Secretary, and that he was authorized to make
                                executive communications to the General Assembly.]

                            Mr. ROBBINS submitted an order, that the Committee on
                                    Education inquire into the constitutionality and
                                expediency of so amending the present school law, as to allow to
                                each township the privilege of voting for such additional school tax
                                as will support a school for six months in the year.

                            Mr. BUNDY submitted a formal order, which was adopted, inviting the
                                Senate to the joint convention for the elections for this day.

                            Mr. HAYES submitted a joint resolution [19] in reference to the
                                President, officers and citizens of the United States, and in favor
                                of the Union, the Constitution and the enforcement of the laws ;
                                which was referred to the Committee of Thirteen. 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Be it Resolved by the General Assembly of
                                                the State of Indiana, That it is the duty of
                                            the President of the United States, and all in authority
                                            under him, or enjoying the benefits of the Constitution
                                            thereof, to enforce the laws of the United States passed
                                            by Congress, and as the Courts expound them; and to do
                                            all in their power to aid the Government of the United
                                            States in maintaining the supremacy of the laws against
                                            all resistance, come from whatever quarter it may.

                                        Be it further Resolved, That it is the
                                            duty of the President of the United States to treat all
                                            attempts to break up the Union by resistance to its
                                            laws, as President Jackson did the Nulliflers in 1832,
                                            that is by declaring that "the Federal Union must and
                                            shall be preserved."

                                        Be it further Resolved, That the
                                            Governor be, and he is hereby requested to furnish a
                                            copy of these resolutions to the President of the United
                                            States, and to each of our Senators and Representatives
                                            in Congress. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.
                             By Mr. DOBBINS. [60] Providing for depositing the bonds and freehold
                                securities by the several railroad companies in this State,
                                providing penalties for violation of this act, and awarding liens on
                                said securities for stock killed by railroads.

                            By Mr. ORR. [61] Defining who shall be qualified voters at District
                                school meetings, for the selection of district directors, &c.,
                                and repealing all laws confuting therewith.

                            By Mr. VEATCH. [62] To authorize the Bank of the State of Indiana to
                                lay off and create five additioual bank districts, and to locate and
                                establish bank therein.

                            By Mr. PROSSER. [63] To repeal the act to prevent the carrying of
                                concealed or dangerous weapons, approved February 22, 1859.

                            By Mr. BRUCKER. [64] Authorizing aliens to hold lands in the State of
                                Indiana by purchase or otherwise.

                            By Mr. HEFFREN. [65] To repeal the act touching gaming contracts.

                            By Mr. ATKISSON. [66] To amend section 476 of the Practice act of
                                June 18, 1852.

                            By Mr. POLK. [67] In relation to fences along railroad lines, and the
                                killing of stock on railroads.

                            By Mr. HOWARD. [68] To amend section 466 of the Practice act.

                            By Mr. DOBBINS. [69] To amend the act providing for serving process
                                on officers, directors, attorneys or agents of any railroad,
                                approved March 4, 1853.

                            By Mr. PACKARD. [70] Supplemental to section one of the act providing
                                for the election or appointment of supervisors; approved June 18,
                                1852.

                            By Mr. MOODY. [71] To amend section 14 of the act defining
                                misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment therefor; approved June 14,
                                1852.

                            By Mr. CRAIN. [72] For the recovery of personal property, providing
                                for an execution against the body, and repealing all laws in
                                conflict therewith.

                            Thess bills were passed to the second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF LIBRARIAN, AGENT, CANAL TRUSTEE.
                             At 10 o'clock the Senate came into joint convention for the election
                                of those officers-the president of the Senate presiding.

                            The order for election of Librarian was first announced.

                            Senator Hull nominated R. Deloss Brown, of Dearborn.

                            Mr. Heffren nominated L. St. Clair Dill.

                            Senator Carnahan nominated John B. Dillon, of Marion.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg nominated John O. Green, of Floyd.

                            The PRESIDENT of the Senate announced the whole number of votes cast
                                145 ; necessary to a choice 73. Of these Mr. Brown received 87; Miss
                                Dill, 30; Mr. Dillon, 18, and Mr. Green, 10. Mr. Brown having
                                received a majority, was declared duly elected Librarian for the
                                term of two years from the expiration of the term of the present
                                incumbent.

                            In the order of the election of State Agent, Robert N. Hudson, of
                                Vigo, and Daniel C. Stover, of Montgomery, were put in nomination. 

                            

                            The PRESIDENT of the Senate announced the whole number of votes 145:
                                necessary to a choice 78. Of these Mr. Hudson received 87, and Mr.
                                Stover 58. Mr. Hudson having received a majority, was declared duly
                                elected Agent of State for the term of two years from the expiration
                                of the term of the present incumbent.

                            In the order for the election for Canal Trustree, Joseph S. Hanna, of
                                Lafayette, was the Republican caucus nominee, and Mr. Heffren
                                nominated Richard Raleigh, of Vanderburg.

                            The PRESIDENT of the Senate announced the report of the tellers,
                                viz.: whole number of votes 146, necessary to a choice 74. Of these
                                Mr. Hanna received 88, and Mr. Raleigh 58. Mr. Hanna having received
                                a majority, was declared duly elected Canal Trustee for the term of
                                three years under the provisions of the act of 1846-7 creating that
                                office.

                            The convention was then prorogued and the Senators retired.

                            Mr. Frasier made an ineffectual effort for a clerk for the Committee
                                on County and Township Business. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            
                                NEW BILLS.
                                 By Mr. HEFFREN: [73] To provide for the collection, safe-keeping
                                    and disbursement of the public moneys: [All payments and
                                    disbursements to be made in gold and silver loaning the public
                                    money to be taken as embezzlement, punished as a felony,
                                    &c.]

                                By Mr. BRETT: [74] To amend the 5th section ot the Liquor law of
                                    March 5, 1859 :

                                By Mr. McCLURG: [75] To amend the 412th section of the Practice
                                    Act of June 18, 1852:

                                By Mr. BLACK: [76] to amend section one of the act to authorize
                                    County Recorders and County Surveyors to issue fee bills;
                                    approved March 5, 1855:

                                By Mr. HENRICKS: [77] To amend the 6th section of the act to
                                    incorporate the St. Joseph Iron Company, approved January 22,
                                    1835, and to repeal sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. 12 of said
                                    act:

                                By Mr. LEE: [78] To authorize the County Commissioners to exempt
                                    the property of widows from taxation when it does not exceed
                                    $300 in value:

                                By Mr. TURNER : To amend the act for the appointment of Sheriff
                                    of the Supreme Court, and prescribe certain of his fees;
                                    approved May 13. 1852; and to repeal all laws in conflict
                                    therewith :

                                By Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe: [SO] To prevent emigration from
                                    another State, or from one county to another in this State, for
                                    the purpose of voting or influencing elections in such county or
                                    township ; to punish violations, &c., and to repeal the act
                                    of March, 1857, on the same subject,[accompanied with the
                                    petition of Jacob Benedict and other for its enactment:]

                                By Mr. HOPKINS: [81] To quiet the title to a piece of ground in
                                    Vanderburg county, the east half of lot five on part of the
                                    Northwest quarter of section 29 in township six, south of range
                                    10, west:

                                By Mr. HENRICKS: [82] To amend the 7th section of the act to
                                    incorporate the South Bend Manufacturing Company, and repeal the
                                    9th section of the same; approved December 28, 1842:

                                By Mr. HEFFREN : [83] Te provide for a general system of Common
                                    Schools,the officers thereof, their respective powers and
                                    duties, and matters properly connected therewith; to establish
                                    township libraries, and for the regulation thereof. [On his
                                    motion, under a dispensation of the Constitutional provision,
                                    this bill was read the first and second time by its title, and
                                    then referred to the Committee on Education
                                    :]

                                By Mr. ORR : [84] To regulate interest, on money, and to repeal
                                    the act concerning interest on money, approved May 27, 1852, and
                                    repeal all laws in conflict with this act: [Mr. Bundy made an
                                    ineffectual motion for a dispensation and second reading.]

                                These bills, excepting No. 83, were passed to the second reading.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                GAVIN & HORD'S STATUTES.
                                 Mr. HEFFREN, from the special committee appointed to inquire
                                    with reference to the purchase of Gavin & Hord's Statutes,
                                    reported letters from Bingham & Doughty and Gavin &
                                    Hord, the publishers and editors of said Statues, proposing to
                                    fill the State's order for three dollars a volume; and
                                    recommending a State subscription for a - number of copies for
                                    the use of the General Assembly, and - copies for the public
                                    officers.

                                Mr. NEBEKER moved to refer the report, to the Committee
                                        on the Judiciary.

                                Mr. HURD would stand in need of this work, unless he were
                                    supplied with all the acts since 1850. The House would not be
                                    capable of acting intelligently on many questions without it,
                                    and he thought it would be economy to procure it.

                                Mr. EDSON. The first volume brings up the compilation of the nets
                                    to this time, and the second volume would embrace the acts of
                                    the present Legislature. It seemed to him that the body ought to
                                    subscribe for the first volume, aud that at least 100 copies be
                                    procured for the use of the House.

                                Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, understood the the subscription for
                                    these books to be proposed for the benefit of lawyers.

                                Mr. HEFFREN. Yes, sir.

                                Mr. SMITH. Then it should be ascertained how many practicing
                                    lawyers there are in the House, that they might be supplied to
                                    the extent of their number.

                                Mr. HURD. It was not a subscription for members in the sense of
                                    taking the books home with them. They were for use in the public
                                    service.

                                

                                Mr. HEFFREN moved ineffectually to post-pone the further
                                    consideration of the report till Tuesday.

                                Mr. BRANHAM hoped the House would not vote this supply of books
                                    without the proposition first going to the committee proposed.
                                    If it was right for the House to have them he was ready to vote
                                    for the proposition.

                                The report was then referred to the Judiciary
                                        Committee. 
                            
                            

                            
                                EMBEZZLEMENT BILL. 
                                 Mr. Branham's Embezzlement Bill [H. R. 1] defining certain
                                    felonies, &c., was taken up and considered on the second
                                    reading.

                                On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, it was referred to the
                                        Committee on the Judiciary.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG desired to amend by substituting appropriately
                                    the word "felony" for embezzlement," and for "breach of
                                    trust."

                                Mr. PROSSER proposed to amend by including in its provisions and
                                    penalties "all city, town and other officers, all executors and
                                    administrators, and all persons acting in any fidiciary capacity
                                    whatever."

                                The amendments, by unanimous consent, were referred with the
                                    bill.

                                Mr. Williams' bill [2] declaring it a felony to destroy railroad
                                    cattle-guards, &c.; and

                                Mr. Cameron's bill, [3] to provide for the Common Pleas Court in
                                    Newton county, were considered on the second roading, and
                                    referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                                Mr. McLean's bill [4] to amend sections 70 and 91 of the
                                    aasessment act, June 21, 1852, was considered on the second
                                    reading, and referred to the Committee on County and
                                        Township Business.

                                Mr. Jenkinson's bill, [5] to repeal the taxing power of County
                                    Commissioners, was considered on the second reading, and
                                    referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                ADJOURNMENT TILL MONDAY.
                                 Mr. PARRETT moved that when the House adjourns, it shall be till
                                    Monday, at 2 o'clock P. M.

                                Mr. WOODHULL would know the reason for this motion. Was it to
                                    give gentlemen living on the railroads a chance to go home?

                                Mr. BUNDY, It was not for the purpose of running home, but to
                                    give time for members to employ themselves in committees, and
                                    investigate the business before them. The business of the body
                                    must be prepared outside of this Hall. It would advance the
                                    business of the session for members to employ themselves in the
                                    committees, so that the House could not sit more than four days
                                    in the week. It was a standing rule of the last session, and a
                                    good one, to adjourn from 11 o'clock Saturday till Monday, 2
                                    o'clock. He had moved the same order for the present session;
                                    but for the present, he was in favor of the motion of the
                                    gentleman from Elkhart.

                                Mr. BRANHAM. It was not so ranch what was proposed as what was
                                    completed that made the value of the session. If gentlemen would
                                    look over the files of the last session, they would find that
                                    three-fourths of the work was not completed. He was satisfied
                                    that the manner of doing business which commonly obtained in
                                    this body, was not the best. The main portion of the work should
                                    be done in the committees: and if they are not reliable, we must
                                    take them as we find them. He remembered the economical
                                    pretensions of the session of 1855, At one time in that session
                                    there were forty men on the sick list because of undue
                                    confinement in this room. Members of the Legislature, like all
                                    other men, required exercise and recreation. So far as our
                                    compensation was concerned, he did not care a fig for that. He
                                    never came here as a member but that his salary fell short of
                                    his expenses, and he never expected to. His only purpose was to
                                    use the time devoted here to the State to the best advantage.
                                    How many of the Committees now knew what was to come before
                                    them? Gentlemen should prepare themselves by examining into the
                                    past, and familiarizing themselves with the history and
                                    legislation of the State. They would then be moving in the right
                                    direction. And if they wanted to go home, he had no objection.
                                    It was not to be supposed that gentlemen coming here to serve,
                                    should be treated worse than other men. So far as he was
                                    concerned, he would be glad for every member to go home
                                    Saturday, and return Monday.

                                [A Senate message announced the passage there of a joint
                                    resolution to send the joint committee on the Penitentiary, to
                                    Michigan City.] 

                                 Mr. CAMERON. The argument that business was to be forwarded in
                                    the committees by adjourning over from Friday till Monday, he
                                    thought fallacious. The adjournment would scatter the
                                    committees. It was already intimated that the committees would
                                    not be able to meet till Tuesday. He would vote for an
                                    adjournment every day at 2 o'clock. That would give time for
                                    work in the committees.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG said this system of adjournments would throw all
                                    the important business into the heel of the session.

                                Mr. WOODHULL. He was on but one committee, and that had adjourned
                                    till Monday evening, because of this proposition. The argument
                                    of the gentleman from Porter was conclusive against the motion.
                                    The effect of the adjournment would be that we would have no
                                    committees. He also concurred with the suggestion of the
                                    gentleman from Porter, that it would be better to adjourn for
                                    the half of each day.

                                Mr. DOBBINS proposed to amend the motion by requiring the members
                                    of standing committees to come here to-morrow and set ID their
                                    rooms till 4 o'clock.

                                The SPEAKER ruled the amendment out of order.

                                Mr. GEESHAM. It was necessary that the  House should sit to-morrow to get
                                    work before the committees.

                                Mr. VEATCH cited an authority against the debateableness of a
                                    motion to adjourn to a day certain.

                                The SPEAKER. The gentleman has got hold of Jefferson's Manual.
                                    [Laughter.]

                                Mr. FRASIER was for the motion. Most of us were unacquainted with
                                    committee business. He was a member of the Committee on
                                        County and Township Business; and although he had
                                    practiced law for twelve years he yet knew very little about the
                                    law, and legislation in these matters which might guide him in
                                    the committee. He could occupy himself with researches in this
                                    direction, and in looking over these annual reports on our
                                    tables. He could put in his time pretty well between now and
                                    Monday.

                                Mr. Parrett.'s motion was adopted by yeas 51, nays 43.

                                Mr. MOODY made an ineffectual motion to adjourn.

                                Mr. Roberts's bill, [6,] to amend the act for the election of
                                    Presidential electors, was considered on the second reading, and
                                    referred to the Committee on elections. 
                            
                            

                            
                                MISDEMEANORS.
                                 Mr. Woodhull's bill [7] to amend the 13th section of the act of
                                    1852, defining misdemeanors, was considered on the second
                                    reading.

                                Mr. WOODHULL asked for its engrossment. It proposed a change only
                                    so far as the punishment is concerned. As the law now stood, If
                                    a man destroy a horse by poison, you could not send him to
                                    prison, as if he stole the horse, or stole no more than five
                                    dollars. He rehearsed a case in his county, which makes this act
                                    desirable. A man was convicted of malicious trespass in
                                    poisoning two horses-one worth $250 and the other $100-for which
                                    he was sent to the county jail for a year and fined $200. He
                                    served out his year, and was still in jail because unable to pay
                                    his fine. He considered it plain that, in such cases it ought to
                                    be left to the jury whether there should be fine or imprisonment
                                    in the penitentiary.

                                Mr. FISHER moved that the bill be referred to the
                                        Committee on Judiciary.

                                The motion was agreed to.

                                The House then adjourned till Monday 2 o'clock p.m. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            MONDAY, January 21,1861.
                        
                        The Senate was not in session this forenoon.

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             A message from the Governor was received, transmitting resolutions
                                in relation to the troubles and dissentions of the country, which he
                                had received from the Governors of the States of Ohio and New
                                York.

                            Mr. CONNER presented a series of motions adopted at a meeting of
                                citizens Of Miami, Fulton, Cass and Wabash counties held in Peru on
                                the 19th inst., in relation to the present want of organization of
                                the militia of the State ; which were referred to the
                                    Committee on Military Affairs, without
                                reading. 


                            
                                STOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
                                 Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was rejected upon a
                                    division, directing the Committee on
                                        Agriculture to inquire into the expediency of
                                    amending the law, so as to make owners of stock running at large
                                    liable for damage done to persons or property. 
                            
                            

                            
                                COLLECTION OF DEBTS.
                                 Mr. TEEGARDEN offered a resolution, which was rejected,
                                    directing the Judiciary Committee to inquire
                                    into the expediency of changing the law, so as to make the
                                    collection of debt legal, in the township where contracted. 
                            
                            

                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                 On motion by Mr. MELLETT, the rules were suspended and the
                                    following bills-described more fully on pages 6, 30, and 45 of
                                    these reports-were read the second time and severally
                                    referred:

                                Mr March's embezzlement bill, by consent, was taken from the
                                    table and read.

                                Mr. WOLFE moved to amend the bill by making it the duty of the
                                    Treasurer of State when he shall have $1,000 in bills of any
                                    bank to present them for redemption.

                                Mr. MARCH. I don't propose to discuss the policy of this
                                    amendment. It does not belong to this bill. The bill is intended
                                    as a law to provide penalties against embezzlement of the public
                                    funds.

                                Mr. WOLFE. My amendment is intended to recite what the duty of
                                    the Treasurer is, so as to prevent what is provided for in the
                                    amendment freing regarded as a misappropriation of the public
                                    funds.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB. The amendment does not go far enough if that is the
                                    object of it. The proposition ought to be that the Treasurer
                                    might present any amount of bills for redemption. I do not
                                    understand the bill takes away from the Treasurer the right
                                    anybody else would have; but this amendment would make it his
                                    duty to become a carpet bag gentleman to run over the State. If
                                    authority is necessary, I would vote to give him the right to
                                    present bank bills at pleasure for redemption.

                                The amendment was rejected.

                                The bill was referred to the Judiciary
                                        Committee.

                                Mr. Conley's [15] was read and laid on the table-in the absence
                                    of the author.

                                Mr. Jones' [16] to number sheep killed by dogs. Referred to
                                        Committee on Agriculture.

                                Mr. Wilson's [17] allowing prosecuting attorneys 10 per cent, on
                                    moneys collected by forced recognizance. To the
                                        Judiciary Committee. 

                                

                                 Mr. Conner's [18] making publication 30days before the first day
                                    of term sufficient. Ordered engrossed for the third reading.

                                [On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, the Senate agreed to take up his bill,
                                    [7] descried on page of these reports. At the suggestion of Mr.
                                    RAY, the words "circuit judge" were inserted after the words
                                    "common pleas judge." The bill was then passed by yeas 33, nays
                                    3.]

                                Mr. Claypool's [19] allowing quails to be killed in January and
                                    February.

                                Mr. BLAIR moved to amend by limiting the time to February 1.

                                The bill and amendment were referred to the Committee on
                                        Agriculture.

                                Mr. Cravens' [20] supplement to the Temperance law, To the
                                        Committee on Temperance.

                                Mr. Dickinson's [21] apportionment bill. To the Special Committee
                                    heretofore ordered, consising of Senators Williams, Anthony,
                                    ____ , Line. Mellett, Newcomb, Johnson, Wagner, Bearss and
                                    Hamilton.

                                Mr. Murray's [22] for the collection of liquor licenses, To the
                                        Temperance Committee.

                                Mr. Hall's [23] increasing the time allowed assessors to make out
                                    their lists. To the Committee on Finance.

                                Mr. Line's [24] regulating the time of meeting of the State Board
                                    of Agriculture. Ordered engrossed for the third reading.

                                Mr. Dickinson's [25] authorizing justices, judges and mayors to
                                    administer oaths. To the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                                Mr. Shoemaker's [26] supplemental to the county seat act. To the
                                        Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.

                                Mr. Lomax's [27] concerning highways. To the Committee
                                        on Roads.

                                Mr. Turner's [29] increasing punishment of depredators on lands.
                                    Passed the second reading informally.

                                Mr. Blair's [30] amending the election law, being read-

                                Mr. SHIELDS moved to strike out all that relates to producing the
                                    certificate of naturalization of foreign voters.

                                Mr. BLAIR. It is not imperatively demanded in all cases, though
                                    he must account for it in some reasonable way.

                                Mr. RAY. It is very doubtful whether the act containing such a
                                    disqualification would be constitutional or not.

                                Mr. WOLFE. I wish to see all voters put as nearly on an equality
                                    as possible. While our object should be to preserve the purity
                                    of the ballot box, we should not deprive legal voters of the
                                    right to vote.

                                The bill and amendment were referred to the Judiciary
                                        Committee. 
                            
                            

                            
                                A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE 
                                 Announced the passage of a bill [H. R. 59] to amend section 1 of
                                    an act fixing the time of holding the Common Pleas Courts in
                                    this State.

                                And then-

                                On motion the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            MONDAY, January 21, 1861.
                        

                        
                            DEFICIENCY OF TREASURY.
                             The SPEAKER laid befere the House a communication from the Auditor,
                                containing a statement of the condition of the Treasury this day,
                                and suggesting that the Legislature provide for its expenses and the
                                expenses of the State, till the revenue of 1860 can be realized. The
                                statement shows by figures an estimate that $72,712 31 must be
                                provided by loan; and the Auditon recommends that the loan be made
                                from the Sinking Fund, &c.

                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, the paper was referred to the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                             Mr. NEBEKER presented the petition of Francis H. Tebbs and other
                                citizens of Warren county, asking for the repeal of the New County
                                Acts of March 7, 1857, and March 5, 1859; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.

                            Mr. BUNDY submitted the memorial of sundry citizens of Knightstown,
                                asking the General Assembly to pass resolutions inviting emigration
                                of oppressed white citizens in the Southern States to the State of
                                Indiana.

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, from the Committee on Stationery, submitted
                                a report recommending an additional clerk and two folders for the
                                stationery room.

                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEES AND PERQUISITES.
                             Mr. VEATCH submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                Governor be requested to lay before the House any information now in
                                his possession, or that he may be able to obtain, in relation to the
                                amount of fees and perquisites which may have been received by the
                                Governor, Auditor, Treasurer and President of the board of Sinking
                                Fund Commissioners since the 5th day of March, 1859, and whether
                                said fees and perquisites have been paid into the Treasury as
                                required by law. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE ARSENAL.
                             Mr. GRESHAM submitted a resolution, authorizing the Governor to rent
                                some suitable and convenient room centrally located in this city, to
                                be used as a State Arsenal, and that he have the arms in the present
                                arsenal overhauled by some competent officer, and removed to such
                                room,

                            Mr. HEFFREN. What arms has the State in the arsenal? I understand
                                that there are 13 muskets and two rusty horse pistols.

                            Mr. GRESHAM understood there were arms there, and thought it proper
                                to take care of them.

                            On motion by Mr. HOLCOMB, it was referred to tho Committee
                                    on Military Affairs,

                            Mr. ORR submitted a resolution, that the Committee on
                                    Military Affairs, report as soon as possible a bill to
                                thoroughly organize the militia of the State; and also to provide
                                for  the organization of
                                volunteer companies, to be furnished with arms, and drilled in the
                                Man-al and Platoon exercise.

                            Mr. EDSON proposed to amend by inserting the words "inquire into the
                                expediency of."

                            Mr. ORR only wished to take the most effective and certain means to
                                have the militia organized. 

                            Mr. PROSSER, as a member of the Committee on Military
                                    Affairs, said that they proposed at as early a day as
                                possible to report a bill.

                            Mr. BUNDY did not think it worth while to be in too great haste about
                                the matter. We were not, it seemed, to be speedily plunged into a
                                war.

                            Mr GRESHAM, as chairman of the Committee, concurred with Mr, Prosser.
                                A good deal of deliberation and examination was necessary to prepare
                                the bill proposed. The Committee had had bat one meeting, and
                                unfortunately not many of them were familiar with military affairs.
                                They were not going to be idle.

                            Mr. EDSON. His object in the amendment was to give time for
                                reflection. There was a difference of opinion in regard to the
                                course that ought to be pursued. We had heretofore abstained from
                                peremptory resolutions.

                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, the resolution and amendment were laid on
                                the table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            LANDLORD'S LIEN.
                             Mr. McLEAN submitted a resolution, which was adopted, instructing
                                the Judiciary Committee to inquire whether there
                                is any statute giving to landlords a lien on the growing crops to
                                secure their rent from the tenant: and, if not, to report a bib
                                creating such lien, if deemed expedient and proper by said
                                Committee. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE LATE DR. OWEN S CABINET.
                             Mr. FRASIER submitted an order which was passed, that the
                                    Agricultural committee inquire into the
                                expediency of purchasing for the use of the State, the geological
                                and mineralogical cabinet, and chemical and philosophical apparatus
                                of the late Dr. David Dale Owen. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NORTHERN STATE PRISON INVESTIGATION.
                             On motion by Mr. BUNDY, the House took up the consideration of the
                                Seante joint resolution providing for the investigation of the
                                Northern State Prison.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Did not the resolution contemplate that all of the
                                    Prison Committee should visit the prison?

                            Mr. BUNDY understood it did.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. It was needless for so many to go. 

                             The SPEAKER The Chair supposed the committee must decide that
                                matter. A certain duty was devolved on the committee, and they must
                                discharge it as they think best.

                            Mr. BUNDY considered that it belonged to the House to designate the
                                number that should go.



                             Mr. STOTSENBERG moved that the number be limited to three of the
                                Standing and three of the Select Committee.

                            Mr. DOBBINS made a point of order that the House could not thus
                                interfere with a commitee. As one member of the committee he would
                                not be willing to report on the investigation of three. He thought
                                it might be sufficient for the Standing Committee to go.

                            The SPEAKER sustained the point Of order.

                            Mr. NEBEKER moved to repeal the resolution appointing the Special
                                Committee, wishing to avoid unnecessary expense.

                            The SPEAKER. The gentleman could not repeal a resolution by a
                                motion.

                            Mr. RAGAN understood that the committee was only invested with power
                                to send for persons and papers, and that additional powers were
                                necessary to authorize them to visit the prison.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB. If such had not been his understanding he should have
                                voted against the resolution.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG reasoned against Mr. Dobbins' point of order, and
                                insisted on reducing the number of visiting members of the
                                committee.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The resolution for the Select Committee had been passed
                                and settled by a refusal to reconsider. It might be competent for
                                the House to say that but three shall go; but he could assure the
                                House that they would not make a report unless they had their own
                                ordering of the investigation. The committee would of course abide
                                the decision of the House, but there was no reason why parliamentary
                                rule should be violated by such interference. Charges had been made
                                implicating State officers-that the Auditor of State had overdrawn
                                some $40,000, and it was but justice to that gentleman and to the
                                State, that a full investigation should be made. The House could do
                                as it pleased, but ho submitted that it would not become the body to
                                ignore such grave charges of fraud on account of the expense of
                                investigation.

                            Mr. WOODHULL thinking it competent, according to usage, for the
                                committee to go or not, as they see proper, and seeing no use in the
                                resolution-on his motion it was laid on the table.
                        
                        

                        
                            COUNTY AUDITORS AND TREASURES.
                             Mr. BUNDY submitted a resolution which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on fees and salaries inquire into
                                the expediency of amending the 127th section of the act on the 136th
                                page of the first volume of the Revised Statutes with reference to
                                the duties of these offices, and inquire whether certian fees of the
                                Treasurers are not too high, and certain fees of the Auditors are
                                not too low, &c. &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NORTHERN PRISON AGAIN.
                             Mr. CAMERON submitted a resolution to repeal the resolution of the
                                House of Representatives,
                                raising a special committee to investigate the location and
                                construction of the Northern State Prison, and transferring its
                                duties to the standing Committee on the
                                    Penitentiary.

                            He maintained that if it was unnecessary to have both committees.
                                They contained fifteen members, and it was totally unnecessary for
                                us to send such an array of members to Michigan City.

                            Mr. JENKINSON said he had always understood Mr. Cameron to be opposed
                                to this investigation. The affairs of our State Prison were in such
                                a condition that one committee could not make the necessary
                                examinations if we mean to have them properly made. Let us have
                                everything fairly discussed. A car to take the committees to
                                Michigan City has been proffered free of charge. He repeated that
                                there had been paid out $40,000 more than had been appropriated, and
                                that $40.000 more were coming on us. We should not endure this, and
                                he was certain the Democratic party would not.

                            Mr. HEFFREN raised a point of order. The House had decided not to
                                change the committee; a resolution to rescind it could not,
                                therefore, be in order.

                            Mr. PROSSER thought that the point of order was not well taken. There
                                was a necessity for the adoption of the resolution, because one
                                committee was sufficient to make all necessary investigations.

                            The SPEAKER decided the resolution to be in order.

                            Mr. CAMERON denied that he had any interest or desire to prevent
                                investigation. He had never been at the Northern Prison, and hoped
                                he never would be. But his course had been governed by a desire to
                                decrease expenses, for he represented a county that had been bled to
                                death by oppressive taxation. The nuances of the State are in such a
                                condition, that we have been told that we must borrow money to carry
                                on public affairs. Shall we now increase the demand on the Treasury?
                                The standing committee can make the investigations, and the
                                resolution confers upon it all the powers the House has given to tie
                                select committee. If the committee must go to Michigan City, let it
                                be as small as possible. The standing committee was composed of
                                talent and members sufficient to do justice to the interests of the
                                State.

                            Mr. FISHER said that when the question of examining into the affairs
                                of the Northern Prison was first introduced here, he thought an
                                investigation was necessary. As the member from Allen was the mover
                                of the resolution creating the committee, parliamentary usage
                                required him to be placed on the committee. He had strong feelings
                                and had prejudged his course. It became necessary to have the
                                present locality represented on the committee, and hence the member
                                from Laporte was placed on it. These opposing influences will lead
                                to a strong contest to a majority and a minority report, and the
                                House will thus be kept in the dark as to the true state of the
                                facts. Under such circumstances, it was best, to dispense with the
                                committee. 

                            Mr. FRASIER was glad to see the House coming to tho point he had
                                insisted upon at the beginning-the propriety of referring the
                                investigation to the Standing Committee. He had much respect for the
                                members from Allen and Laporte, but their antagonism made it better
                                to dispense with the committee. Besides this, he was opposed to
                                creating any unnecessary expense.

                            Mr. JENKINSON said that he believed the mover of the resolution was
                                unfriendly to investigation, on the principle that he who was not
                                for him was against him. Admit that there may be two reports, the
                                House could decide between them. The State, as Governor Hammond has
                                shown, was now indebted ten millions of dollars, and now it is to be
                                increased by the construction of this Northern Prison. The Illinois
                                prison, at Joliet, had cost about two million of dollars, and ours
                                at Michigan City would cost as much. The stone of ours cost more,
                                because it has to be brought from a distance. Are we to incur such
                                an expense and not investigate the charges made, lest the
                                investigation might cost the State something?

                            Mr. DAVIS proposed "to amend by adding these words: "and that all
                                resolutions referred to the select committee be referred to the
                                standing committee.

                            Mr. SHERMAN said he wished it distinctly understood that he desired
                                this matter to be thoroughly investigated. His only fear was that it
                                would not be impartial. As for the advantages claimed for the
                                location at Fort Wayne, he was ready to show that building stone
                                could be delivered at Michigan City at less expense than stone of
                                the same quality could be raised to the surface in any quarry in the
                                State of Indiana. As to the charge that we have to cart the sand six
                                miles, he would ask the gentleman whether he could get brick
                                furnished and laid in the wall for less than $6.50 per thousand
                                ?

                            Mr. JENKINLON. Yes, I can get them laid in the wall for $5.50.

                            Mr. SHERMAN was not now going into details, but pledged himself that
                                there should be no begging of the question before the Committee.

                            He would refer to one thing more alleged by the gentleman from Allen,
                                because, looking over the published journals, he had found it
                                repeated by a Senator in the other end of the building. The
                                gentleman had said that the special appropriation had been overdrawn
                                by $40,000. Would he say how he came to that conclusion? 

                            Mr. JENKINSON. I saw it in the books themselves-$90,000
                                overdrawn.

                            Mr. SHERMAN. I find, on referring to the report of the Auditor, that
                                on tho first of November last,
                                expenses on account of the Northern Penitentiary were then $69,000.
                                The special appropriation was $50,000, for a specific purpose. By
                                referring to the act authorizing this Prison, it will be seen that
                                it provides that the necessary expenses for the management of the
                                Prison and salaries of officers shall be paid out of the general
                                fund of the State. But in the gentleman's account, the whole amount
                                of expenses of the Commissioners has been charged to the special
                                fund. After the location was made, it then became virtually a
                                Prison. The bill provides that the expenses of construction only
                                shall be paid out of the special fund : and I undertake to say, that
                                not one dollar of the special appropriation has been overdrawn. If
                                our officers shall be able hereafter to manage this Prison, without
                                making an overdraft, I shall be glad of it. But I am not willing
                                that these Democratic officers shall be unjustly censured, for they
                                will have as much to answer in the matter as they can well stand
                                under. It was currently reported all over the State that these
                                commissioners had expended the whole of the appropriation for the
                                Prison before it was located. But fortunately it was not true; for
                                they were still able to commence the work. Let us figure a little
                                here. One hundred and fifty convicts were removed to the Northern
                                Prison, under the provision of the bill that they should be employed
                                upon its construction. If you count the boarding of these 150
                                convicts at 31 cents a day-the cost of their removal from, the
                                Southern Prison-the construction of their temporary cells, you will
                                will find these items will be nearly $40,000. Where were these
                                expenses to come from? If they were to come out of the special fund,
                                every cent would have been drawn before they had taken a single step
                                in the construction. There would not have been enough left for the
                                construction of a pig-pen. Still, if those commissioners have been
                                guilty of fraud, I, as a Republican from head to foot, am as anxious
                                as any to have a full investigation, and to see the censure fall
                                where it justly belongs. And I am not opposed to the adoption of the
                                present resolution. I believe that an adequate investigation can be
                                made by the Standing Committee. 

                             Mr. BRANHAM voted for the original resolution for the Special
                                Committee, believing that public justice demanded it. The object was
                                to get the facts before the House in time for action. He did not
                                pretend to decide on the evidence as to the conduct of these
                                officers. But one thing he decided ; and that was, whenever an
                                officer is charged with fraud, the State owes it to him either to
                                clear him, or convict him. The object was to lay before the people a
                                fair expose of the matter, aad the Standing Committee could not do
                                that in time. As to the expense, more money had already been
                                expended in debate than the investigation would cost. He was willing
                                to vote-millions for investigation, but not a cent to cover up
                                fraud. We owed this investigation to these Commissioners, and it
                                would afford no man more pleasure than himself to be able to
                                exculpate them.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. Did they demand it?

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Yes.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. If they did not they ought to. Money was mere dirt. To
                                prevent the demoralization of the public officers of the State was
                                the great matter. If these peculations were not stopped, the State
                                credit would not be worth a farthing. What! were we to have officers
                                sworn to support the Constitution and laws, then trample them under
                                foot in every department! He remembered his early opposition to this
                                prison. He did everything in his power to defeat it. They told us
                                $50,000 was all they wanted to complete it; but they had already
                                expended much more than that, and by a construction of law in regard
                                to this and other matters, the treasury was now bankrupt.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Huntington, concurred with Mr. Branham, and hoped the
                                Special Committtee would be retained.

                            Mr. FRASIER also wanted the investigation to proceed. If the standing
                                committee could not do it he withdrew his support of the resolution
                                of the gentleman from Porter.

                            Mr. NEBEKER would also change his course.

                            Mr. HEFFREN represented that the special committee had already
                                commenced work with a clerk, &c., and expense had been incurred
                                in messengers sent for witnesses, and it would be idle to strike it
                                down.

                            Mr. PROSSER had stated he was for doing the best for the State. If
                                gentlemen will say that both committees of the House shall not go,
                                then he was in favor of retaining the special committee, and of
                                allowing them to take their own course. 

                            Mr. BUNDY repeated what he had said before, that the law authorizing
                                this prison was a fraud, because it set out with the declaration
                                that it should not cost exceeding $50,000. Every man knew it was
                                impossible to build a prison for that amount. And if there hai been
                                fraud, and since we had decided with such unanimity to raise a
                                committee to investigate that fraud, should we now discharge the
                                committee ? He had voted against raising the committee, thinking it
                                cheaper to repeal the law and lose the money. But it had been
                                decided that the subject was worthy of consideration, and the
                                committee had been raised. But it had been said that the minds of
                                some members of the committee had been made up-that the gentleman
                                from Allen and the gentleman from Laporte had prejudffed the case.
                                He conld not see that this would be any disadvantage to the
                                investigation. The majority of the committee had been selected from
                                the Southern counties-disinterested men-and the gentlemen from Allen
                                and Laporte could play the
                                lawyer, bring witnesses and examine them; and the others might sit
                                as a jury and try who is in the right and who is in the wrong. If we
                                adopt this resolution, we go hack to where we were 10 days ago. This
                                seemed to him like child's play; and considering that this subject
                                had been pretty well "aired" two or three times, he moved to lay the
                                resolution and pending amendment on the table.

                            Mr. PROSSER demanded the yeas and nays, and they were ordered and
                                taken.

                            The resolution and amendment were laid on the table by yeas 67, nays
                                31.

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to reconsider, and to lay the latter motion on the
                                table, and the latter motion was agreed to.

                            Mr. CAMERON submitted a resolution, that the Select
                                    Committee on the affairs of the Northern State Prison
                                inquire whether the Commissioners have contracted with Messrs.
                                Butterfield & Stanton for the labor of convicts in said prison
                                at 25 cents a day, and if so,whether it should not be annulled,
                                &c.

                            Mr. C. read a statement from the Laporte Union
                                newspaper, alleging that the commissioners had made such a contract
                                to run for five years, and urged the inquiry whether it ought to
                                stand, when the usual price for convict labor was 40 to 50 cents a
                                day.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            On motion by Mr. ERWIN, it was ordered, that the Standing
                                    Committee on the Penitentiary be discharged from any
                                duty connected with the Northern State Prison.

                            Mr. FEAGLER submitted a joint resolution [20] to hasten the action of
                                the Secretary of the Interior of the United States inlaying before
                                the General Assembly of the State the legal ratio of Congressional
                                representation under the census of 1860.

                            Mr. FISHER could see no reason for the State of Indiana calling for
                                this information in a matter provided for by a law of Congress; and
                                on his motion it was laid on the table.

                            On motion by Mr. MOODY, it was ordered that Mr. Hurd be added to the
                                    Swamp Lands Committee. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REVISION OF THE SCHOOL LAW.
                             Mr. Davis submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Education inquire into the
                                expediency of revising the School law, and providing for the
                                publication of a sufficient number of copies thereof to supply the
                                school districts throughout the State. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JAMES WILSON.
                             Mr. PROSSER submittad a joint resolution [21]which was adopted,
                                appropriating dollars for the erection of a suitable monument to the
                                memory of James Wilson, one of the signers of the Declaration of
                                Independence from the State of Pennsylvania, whose remains repose in
                                a cemetery near Charleston, in this State; and that the same be done
                                under the superintendence of the Governor in conjunction with a
                                committee of the General Assembly.

                            The SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Prcsser, Packard, and Howard, under
                                said resolution.

                            Mr. HORTON submitted an order, which was adopted, that the Select
                                Committee of the House to investigate the Northern State Prison be
                                authorized by the order of the Speaker to draw on the Treasury for
                                money for their expensee, to be incurred in visiting said Prison.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            SCHOOL FUND.
                             Mr. ROBERTS submitted a resolution which was adopted, as
                                follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be instructed to report
                                            amendments to the 8th Article of the Constitution
                                            (provided it is not deemed incompatible with the public
                                            good,) as follows, to wit:

                                        1. To the effect that the funds in the second section
                                            thereof mentioned, shall be and remain a consolidated
                                            and perpetual fund for the support of common schools in
                                            this State, which may be increased but never diminished,
                                            and which shall have a uniform and general application
                                            throughout the State, so that each county will draw its
                                            quota of interest arising therefrom, in proportion to
                                            the number of children therein.

                                        2. That that proportion of the common school fund which
                                            may arise in each county from direct taxation, and from
                                            fines and forfeitures under the penal code, shall remain
                                            in said county for the exclusive and entire benefit of
                                            the common schools therein.

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            MONETARY RELIEF.
                             Mr. HEFFREN submitted a preamble and resolution, rehearsing the
                                existing money crisis, the commercial difficulties involved in the
                                restriction of bank issues, and directing the Committee on
                                    Banks to inquire into the propriety of authorizing a
                                suspension of specie payments by our banks as a means of relief.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. The Constitution provides that that shall not be
                                done.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. It may involve a constitutional question : I wish to
                                refer it to a committee that knows something about it.

                             On motion by Mr. HOPKINS, it was laid on the table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            GIBSON COUNTY COMMON PLEAS.
                             On motion by Mr. HOLCOMB, his bill [H. R. 59] to change the timos of
                                holding the Common Pleas Court in Gibson county, was taken up and
                                passed the final reading in the House of Representatives by yeas 85,
                                nays 0.

                            The House then adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, January 22,1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS WERE PRESENTED
                             By Mr. O'BRIEN, which were referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee without reading.

                            By Mr. WAGNER, which were referred to the Committee on
                                    Finance without reading.

                            By Mr. TURNER, from citizens of Lake county, praying for the repeal
                                of the new county law of '57 and '59 ; referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee: also, in regard to
                                trespass on timbered lands; referred to the Committee on
                                    Roads, without reading. 
                        
                        

                        

                        
                            COUNTY BOARDS AND FAIR GROUNDS.
                             Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Agriculture, to
                                which was referred a resolution inquiring into the expediency of
                                reporting a bill giving county boards power to assist agricultural
                                societies in paying for fair grounds; reported adversely
                                thereon.

                            The report of the Committee was concurred in by the Senate. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXPENSE OF DITCHING IN BENTON COUNTY.
                             Mr. WAGNER offered a resolution, which was adopted, asking of the
                                Auditor and Treasurer of State to inform the Senate of the amount of
                                money expended for ditching swamp land in Benton county, item by
                                item. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INCREASE OF STATE BANK ISSUES.
                             Mr. TARKINGTON offered a resolution, which was adopted, inquiring of
                                the President of the Bank of the State of Indiana whether
                                legislation is necessary to cans State Bank to furnish a greater
                                amount of circulation for the relief of the people, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ROAD CHANGES.
                             Mr. LINE offered a resolution, instructing the Committee on
                                    Roads to so alter the law relating to the change of
                                highways, that when commissioners shall grant the petition of any
                                person desiring a road changed on his own land, he shall pay all the
                                expenses incurred by such change.

                            Mr. LINE, I propose to make this a test vote of the Senate, and I
                                hope Senators will vote understandingly.

                            Mr. STONE: I would be willing to vote in favor of the resolution, if
                                it would state that if the change was in favor of the individual he
                                should pay the expense incurred. In cases where the change made
                                would be for the interest of the county, he should not pay the
                                expense.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS. Many times changes are made in the location of roads
                                for the public benefit, and who are to be the judges of that? It
                                seems to me we have laws enough already upon that subject. I am
                                opposed to the adoption of the resolution.

                            Mr. SHIELDS. It is almost an every-day occurrence that men try to get
                                roads straightened ; and I think if a man petitions for a change on
                                his own land, it is perfectly right that he should bear the
                                expense.

                            Mr. COBB. I think this resolution ought not to be adopted in the
                                language in which it is couched. The spirit of the resolution may be
                                good. In case the change is of public utility I can see no reason
                                why the public should not pay the expense, but if the change be not
                                for the public utility then I should be in favor of a law compelling
                                the person through whose land the change passes to open the road at
                                his own expense. I would be willing to say it should be opened and
                                maintained at his own expense.

                            Mr. MURRAY. What I desire is that a man who gets up a petition to
                                change a high, way on his own land for his own benefit, shall pay
                                the expense of that change I hope the resolution will pass.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to amend by inserting the words " provided the
                                same shall not be deemed of public utility."

                            The amendment was rejected upon a division-affirmative 14, negative
                                15.

                            Mr. COBB moved to amend by providing that if the viewers of such
                                change shall rel port that is not of public utility, then the
                                petitioner shall open and maintain such change at his own
                                expense.

                            Mr. SHIELDS. It seems to me that goes too far. I move to strike out
                                the word " maintain."

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            Mr. LOMAX made an ineffectual effort to I amend by providing that "if
                                such change will not affect the public interest the road may be
                                established."

                            Mr. CARNAHAN made an ineffectual motion-yeas 17, nays 26-to lay the
                                resolution on the table.

                            On motion by Mr. CRAVEN the resolution , was referred to the
                                    Committee on Roads. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                             On motion by Mr. CONNER the order of business was suspended, in
                                order to take up the report of the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations.

                            The PRESIDENT. When the Senate was las, considering this report, at
                                the adjournmentt the Senator from Marion [Mr. Newcomb] was entitled
                                to the floor.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I was not anticipating the discussion this morning. If
                                any other Senator desires to speak, as I am very hoarse this
                                morning, I will give way, if not, I would prefer that we proceed
                                with the regular order of business.

                            Mr. WAGNER, I had hoped gentlemen who wished to address themselves
                                upon this question would, by this time, at least, be ready, that the
                                Senate may come to a conclusion in regard to this matter at as early
                                a day as possible. Already other States have expressed themselves
                                upon this great national question. As a matter of course, I do not
                                want gentlemen to speak upon these great questions before they are
                                prepared; but, I wish Indiana to make her declaration soon.

                            Mr. HAMILTON. I hope Senators will discuss this matter with calmness
                                and deliberation. I shall discard all party predilections, and come
                                to a vote upon this subject as a Senator representing a conservative
                                constituency. It is enough for me to know that my country is in
                                danger, and that discord and disunion is before us. I know of
                                nothing I would not do or sacrifice upon the altar of my country. I
                                see nothing, sir, in the resolutions you introduced to prevent my
                                voting for them. I have only one objection to them, and that is,
                                they don't go far enough. I am
                                net going to inquire what is the cause of the revolution that now
                                exists. If I can, by any vote I can give, throw a mite upon the
                                troubled waters, it will be the happiest vote I ever gave in my
                                life. I did not intend to trouble the Senate with any lengthy
                                researches. I only want to ask my Democratic friends not to throw a
                                firebrand in here, by saying the Republican party is the cause of
                                this trouble; and also to ask my. Republican friends not to say it
                                is the speeches and papers of the Democratic party that has caused
                                this trouble. 

                            A man that will attempt to make party triumph at a time like this, it
                                appears to me has but little manhood-but little honor. Then, Mr.
                                President, I hope we will meet the question in a spirit of
                                conciliation, and that we will agree upon something that will be the
                                united voice of Indiana.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I see that it is the desire of the Senate that this
                                discussion shall go on. I will endeavor to proceed with my remarks,
                                and if I find myself compelled to close abruptly on account of my
                                hoarseness, I will do so.

                            Mr. COBB. I discover the Senator is laboring under a severe
                                hoarseness. I should like to hear him at a time when he is free from
                                a cold. If the Senator will give way, I will move to postpone the
                                consideration of this subject till to-morrow.

                            SEVERAL SENATORS. "No." "No." "No."

                            Mr NEWCOMB. I will go on as gentlemen urge; but I may not be able to
                                follow the line of argument suggested by the Senator from Allen,
                                [Mr. Hamilton.] I think it necessary, in order that we may occupy a
                                just position before the country in discussing this question, that
                                something should be said of the recent position of the several
                                political parties. What I say will not be said in any spirit of
                                anger, but simply in vindication of the party to which I belong from
                                the oft-repeated charge that we are disinclined to adopt measures to
                                save the country. The discussion which has arisen on the report of
                                the Committee, was a surprise to me, and must be a matter of
                                astonishment to the people. I had hoped the patriotic sentiments
                                embraced in the resolutions would have met with the earnest, ready
                                and unanimous approval of every member of the Senate. Let me inquire
                                for a few moments who is responsible for the crisis that is upon the
                                country? Not the Republican party. We have but exercised in a
                                constitutional form the elective franchise, an inheritance from our
                                fathers, which no free man can give up without becoming himself a
                                slave. We have voted for and elected to the presidency a man whose
                                honesty has come to be a proverb, a man whose conservative
                                sentiments have been vouched for by more than one of the secession
                                leaders in the South. An attempt is now made te introduce a new and
                                alarming feature in American politics, which is nothing more or less
                                than this recognition of the right a defeated party to revolutionize
                                the Government. I ask gentlemen to point to a case where a defeated
                                party has come up and demanded that the Constitution shall be
                                amended. Heretofore when an election has been had and the result
                                ascertained, there has been a ready acquiesence. But what has been
                                the conduct of the Opposition on this occasion? Why, sir, from our
                                Presidential election until now, the Democratic press of the country
                                has been teeming with articles embracing just such sentiments as we
                                find in this minority report, and they have been scattered broadcast
                                through the South, and wherever they have been read, they have
                                palsied the hand of the honest Union man in the South, and nerved
                                the arm of treason. More than that,sir, we have had resolutions of
                                Democratic Conventions, even in this hour of our country's peril,
                                when we see, day after day, States falling away from our
                                Confederacy, and we find this same stream of misrepresentatisn
                                poured into the excited oars of the South, still further
                                complicating the difficulties.

                            Now this thing started out by the repeal of the Missouri Compromise
                                and we have been fighting over that for six years. I think the olive
                                branch would be to offer to settle that line. I am perfectly willing
                                to restore the Missouri Compromise line, and I think that ought to
                                be satisfactory to the South. I understand the feelings of my
                                constituents and I believe there are eight thousand of them at my
                                back. There are many other portions of the Crittenden amendment that
                                I will cheerfully indorse. I am willing that he should put forty
                                clauses in the Constitution that no Congress shall ever interfere
                                with the system of slavery where it exists under statute law.

                            Mr. Newcomb spoke an hour by way of illustration and enforcement. 

                             Mr. MURRAY. I cannot agree with some of my Republican friends in the
                                position they have assumed here. I like in the main the argument
                                made by the Senator from Marion, [Mr. Newcomb,] but I am against
                                doctoring up our present Constitution, as setting a bad precedent;
                                and then, sir, against his own argument he comes in and says we are
                                willing to amend the Constitution to avoid these present
                                difficulties. As a Republican Senator, I will not agree, by vote or
                                by act, to any compromise-in the language of the illustrious Clay,
                                no power on earth shall make me by word or deed give one rood of
                                free territory to the everlasting curse of human bondage.

                            Mr. Murray continued the argument on the same side generally; also
                                speaking at length.

                            When he had concluded, this subject was postponed, and made the
                                special order for ten o'clock to-morrow.

                            The Senate accepted the House invitation to the flag raising, and
                                then adjourned till 9 o'clock to-morrow morning. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            TUESDAY, January 22,1861.
                        

                        
                             WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            On motion by Mr. EDSON, the reading of the journal of yesterday was
                                dispensed with, the regular order of business was dispensed with,
                                and the House took up the consideration of bills on the second
                                reading.

                            Mr. Nebeker's bill [8] to provide for extra compensation to clerks
                                and sheriffs coming up-

                            Mr. NEBEKER said the same bill had passed the House at the last
                                session with but three negative votes, but failed for want of time
                                in the Senate. It had passed the ordeal of the Standing Committee,
                                and he hoped it would now be allowed to go to a select committee.
                                But-

                            On the motion of Mr. PARRETT, it was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts.

                            Mr. Edson's bill [9] to amend section 148 of the Practice act of June
                                1852, providing for the settlement of decedants' estates; Mr.
                                Speaker Allen's bill [13] for refunding license money illegally
                                collected; Mr. Packard's bill [14] to amend section 1 of the act
                                concerning the interest on money; Mr. Prosser's bill [19] to amend
                                section 33 of the Practice act of June 18, 1852, so as to provide
                                that actions against the maker of any written contract shall be
                                commenced in the county of the maker's residence; Mr. Roberts' bill
                                [20] to amend section 1 of the Practice act; Mr. Moss' bill [21] to
                                amend section 420 of the Practice act; Mr. Stotsenberg's bill to
                                amend the 28th section of the Practice act; Mr. Frasier's bill [31]
                                to amend the 15th section of the act concerning promissory notes, of
                                May 12, 1852, and sections 381 and 445 of the Practice act; Mr.
                                Orr's bill [34] to punish hindring an affray; Mr. Cason's bill [35]
                                to amend section 238 of the Practice act, so as to admit parties to
                                testify; were referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. Kendricks' bill [10] authorizing township libraries to loan
                                certain funds, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.

                            Mr. Williams' bill [11] for rebuilding and repairing division fences
                                along the lines of railroads, was referred to the Committee
                                    on Agriculture.

                            Mr. Hopkins' bill [15] to amend section 2 of the act of February 12,
                                1855, concerning the organization of voluntary associations, was
                                referred to the Committee on Corporations.

                            Mr. Black's bill [16] for refunding saline funds erroneously paid;
                                Mr. Wilson's bill [23] to amend section 23 of the valuation act of
                                June 21, 1852, were referred to the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.

                            Mr. Heffren's bill [17] to regulate the Public Printing by contract,
                                was referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                Means.

                            Mr. Erwin's bill [18] to amend the act of March 7, 1857, so that new
                                counties may be formed out of territory less than 400 square miles,
                                was referred to the Committee on New
                                Counties.

                            Mr. McClurg's bill [22] to repeal the act to establish courts of
                                conciliation; Mr. Kendrick's bill [29] to create the 16th Judicial
                                Circuit, were referred to the Committee on the Organization
                                    of Courts of Justice.

                            Mr. Holcomb's bill [25] to repeal the wild game law ; Mr. Cameron's
                                bill to amend the same act, with amendments thereto, by Mr. Moody,
                                extending the time of killing prairie hens in the month of August,
                                and by Mr. Prosser requiring the protection of quails to extend from
                                the last of September to the first of March; Mr. Nebeker's bill [28]
                                to amend the act of May 27, 1852, concerning interest on money ; Mr.
                                Bundy's bill [32] tc provide for the rights of married women in the
                                sale af real estate, were referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and privileges.

                            Mr. McLean's bill [24] to preserve the purity of the ballot box, was
                                referred to the Committee on Elections.

                            Mr. Bundy's bill [27] fixing the compensation of Speaker of the House
                                of Representatives at $6 a day, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Claims.

                            Mr. Edson's bill [37] to amend the liquor law, and allow
                                commissioners to locate, build, and repair school-houses, was
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PITTSBURGH, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO RAILROAD.
                             Mr. McLean's bill [33] to protect the title of purchasers of
                                railroads by foreclosing mortgage or other proceeding in law or
                                equity, and to enable them to organize corporations and exercise
                                corporate powers, being read the second time-

                            Mr. FISHER said a bill involving so great an amount of money and
                                property, should not pass without being first printed.

                            Mr. McLEAN. That would be proper after the amendments to be proposed
                                should be reported. He would state that the bill did not propose to
                                cut off the claim of any citizen of Indiana against railroads.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Huntington. It was a bill for the benefit of home
                                creditors and stockholders, and was vital to those interested in the
                                Pittsburgh, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railroad. This was a road of over
                                400 miles. The company had been embarrassed, and could not pay the
                                interest on their bonds. There were six millions of stock. A
                                receiver had been appointed, and the road was now operated at great
                                expense in the hands of the receiver. In addition to the bonded
                                debt, there were two millions of a funded debt. The stockholders
                                were prostrate. They resided on the line of the road. There was a
                                provision in this bill for a re-organization of this Company; and
                                the stockholders considered it 

                        
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 28, 1861
                        No. 6
                    

                    
                        
                        
                            their only salvation to have this bill pass. It makes provision for
                                the funding of the company's debt. He represented the stockholders,
                                bondholders, and the floating debt creditors. There was an agreement
                                between these which the bill proposed to legalize. He himself had no
                                other interest in the road than that of a stockholder-the least and
                                lowest interest. He believed that they could get along and pay all
                                the road had cost, if they could get the debt and interest funded,
                                and out of the hands of the Courts.

                            On the motion of Mr. PARRETT, it was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Woodhull's bill [36] for the relief of the heirs of Michael
                                O'Brien; was referred to a Select Committee of five. 

                        
                        

                        
                            SELECT COMMITTEE ON PRINTING.
                             The SPEAKER now announced this Committee, viz: Messrs. Gresham,
                                Cameron, Burgess, Smith of Bartholomew, and Packard.

                            Mr. FISHER made an ineffectual motion to take Mr. Heffren's bill [17]
                                in relation to the Public Printing out of the hands of the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means, and refer it to
                                this Select Committee. 

                        
                        

                        
                            TRUSTEUS OF THE INDIANA UNIVERSITY.
                             The SPEAKER laid before the House the response of Samuel L. Rugg,
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction, to the resolution of the House
                                calling for a list of the names of the Trustees of the Indiana
                                University. &c. The names are-

                            S. T. Wilson, of Mongomery ; D. G. Rose, of Laporte; R. W. Wilson, of
                                Monroe, (whose term expires March 4, 1861;) Jno, S. Tarkington, Jas.
                                Sweetzer, (whose term expires March 4,1862,) and J. B. Winstanley,
                                B. Hanna, and D. Sheeks, (whose term expires March 4, 1863.)

                            Mr. Brucker's bill [38] to amend the liquor law, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance. 

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                             Mr. BUNDY asked and obtained leave to toake a report from the
                                    Committee of Thirteen, embracing the
                                following resolutions, which the Committee were unanimous in
                                recommending: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                             Be it Resolved &c., That the
                                            preservation of the Federal Constitution and the Union
                                            of the States are essential 10 our tranquility at home
                                            and consideration abroad, and that the liberty of the
                                            people would be greatly endangered by its
                                            dissolution.

                                        2. That the Government of the United States cannot permit
                                            any State to withdraw from the confederacy without
                                            violating the terms of the compact between it and the
                                            people of the States which constitute the Union.

                                        3. That while the constitutional rights of every State in
                                            the Union should be maintained inviolate, the authority
                                            of the National Government, acting within the powers
                                            given it by the people, must also be maintained, and the
                                            laws of Congress faithfully executed in all the States
                                            of the Union ; and that all attempts to resist the
                                            execution of such laws are revolutionary in their
                                            character and should be promptly suppressed.

                                        4. That the people of Indiana are unalterably opposed o
                                            interference with the laws and institutions of any other
                                            State, just as they would oppose interference by the
                                            people of other States with the laws and institutions of
                                            this State; that they have ever maintained their
                                            constitutional obligation, and in good faith executed
                                            the laws of Congress according to their letter and
                                            spirit, and they demand and expect every other State of
                                            the Union to do the same.

                                        5. That the Federal Constitution, without alteration or
                                            amendment is amply sufficient, if obeyed, to preserve
                                            the Union and secure the just rights of the people of
                                            all the States ; but as differences of opinion have
                                            arisen between the Northern and Southern sections of the
                                            Union respecting the common Territory there of which
                                            threaten to involve the country in civil war, to avert
                                            so great a calamity, and to restore peace to the
                                            country, the State of Indiana proposes as a basis of
                                            settlement, by-proper enactment, to restore the Missouri
                                            Compromise line of 30 degrees 30 minutes, with all the
                                            rights of the people North and South as they formerly
                                            existed; or any other reasonable and just arrangement
                                            which shall not require the sacrifice of the rights of
                                            people of any part of the confederacy.

                                        6. That any State having laws on her statute books
                                            designed or intended to interfere with the due execution
                                            of the laws of Congress ought to repeal them without
                                            delay.

                                        7. That for the purpose of a friendly interchange of
                                            opinion, and in order to strengthen the bonds of Union
                                            and friendship, as well as correct any misapprehension
                                            which may exist respecting the designs of Northern
                                            people against the domestic institutions of those
                                            States, His Excellency the Governor be and he is hereby
                                            directed and requested to appoint two of our most
                                            eminent citizens to proceed without delay to the States
                                            of Kentucky and Tennessee, whose Legislatures are now in
                                            session, and by public addresses before these bodies or
                                            otherwise, give assurance to them of the ardent desire
                                            of the people of Indiana to preserve the American Union,
                                            and protect and secure the rights of the people of all
                                            the States. 

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. DOBBINS moved that the consideration of the report be
                                postponed,and that it be made the special order for Thursday, 10
                                o'clock. He said he was not prepared to vote on a matter of so much
                                gravity and importance upon the mere reading of the paper. He did
                                not think now that he could vote for the report without amendment.
                                He trusted the House would postpone it till gentlemen might have
                                time to vote understandingly, and so as to satisfy the other States
                                of the Union that Indiana is prepared to present something
                                practicable. 

                            

                            Mr. BUNDY moved that 200 copies be printed.

                            The SPEAKER suggested that several members absent would not be here
                                till to-morrow night.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. There were other gentlemen-the eight members of the
                                    Special Penitentiary Committee-who could not
                                be here till Saturday. While he was anxious that every gentleman
                                should take these resolutions, examine and act upon them as their
                                judgment and conscience shall dictate, he hoped that,if they were
                                postponed at all, it would be till this Committee could return.
                                These resolutions were reported by Democrats and Republicans With
                                the exception of one resolution, the Committee were unanimous in the
                                report. About the 5th resolution there was some difference but they
                                still met on common ground, and made it unanimous, supposing it
                                would have a better effect than if they came in here disjointed and
                                jarring with several reports. He did not know why we should put it
                                off longer than to-morrow. And as for the printing both papers would
                                do that to-morrow morning. He moved to amend by saying "Wednesday." 

                            Mr. PARRETT was opposed to the printing order. We should have it in
                                the papers, and that would be sufficient. It might be proper to
                                postpone it till the House would be full.

                            Mr. DOBBINS called for a division of the question.

                            The SPEAKER. The first question is on postponement.

                            Mr. GRESHAM was willing to vote for any reasonable compromise-not an
                                ignominious one. To-morrow morning would not afford sufficient time.
                                He liked the tone of the resolutions, but they were too indefinite
                                as regards the re-establishment of the Missouri Compromise line. He
                                hoped, however, to be able yet to agree with the gentleman from
                                Washington, upon them; and they two were as far apart politically as
                                any two members of the House.

                            Mr. EDSON considered the action to be taken on these resolutions
                                would be the most important action of the session. He wanted prompt
                                action. He thought the resolutions did not go far enough. He was
                                opposed to the restoration of the Missouri Compromise. Compromises
                                of Congress were too easily violated. Any change or arrangement for
                                conciliation should be in the Constitution of the United States.

                            The SPEAKER. Debate on the merits of the resolutions were hardly in
                                order.

                            Mr. EDSON. Thinking there was nothing in these resolutions that could
                                avail, he was in favor of postponing till the longest time.

                            Mr. PACKARD would prefer to make the time of consideration Monday or
                                Tuesday.

                            Mr. PROSSER was in favor of Mr. Heffren's motion. There was a
                                disposition to make long speeches. If gentlemen could have been in
                                our committee they would have heard no discussion there. We met as
                                brothers, If gentlemen would reopen discussion, the report would
                                amount to nothing. He thought gentlemen could be prepared to vote on
                                it to-morrow. He would to God that we could vote for this report
                                to-day, before the American flag shall float from the dome of this
                                building today. Diverse opinions must be compromised.

                            Mr. DOBBINS never had spoken here in long speeches. It was not for
                                lengthy speeches but for due consideration that he asked for delay.
                                He did not see the necessity for the order to print.

                            Mr. FRASIER. Time was not gained in de-claiming against long speeches
                                in long speeches. He was in favor of Thursday.

                            Mr. HEFFREN A few days ago, there was a resolution to urge the
                                committee to report. Now the committee had reported, was the House
                                averse to action ?

                            Mr. SHERMAN moved to postpone till Tues. day 10 o'clock.

                            Mr. FRASIER demanded the previous question, and there was a
                                second.

                            The first question being on the adoption of Mr. Sherman's amendment,
                                it was agreed to.

                            The House refused to print the resolutions.

                        
                        

                        
                            THE AMERICAN FLAG.
                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted an order, which was adopted, that the Senate be
                                invited to participate with the House in the ceremonies of raising
                                the American flag on the dome of the capitol at half-past two
                                o'clock.

                            Mr. FRASIER submitted an order, which was adopted, that Miss C.
                                Richings be invited to attend and sing the Star Spangled Banner.

                            Mr. McLEAN proposed a committee of three for this purpose; which was
                                agreed to; and the Speaker thereupon appointed Messrs. McLean, Polk
                                and Frasier. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            
                                PROGRAMME OF THE FLAG RAISING. 
                                 Mr. HEFFREN, from the Select Committee on that subject, obtained
                                    leave to report that the ceremonials would take place at
                                    half-past two o'clock, according to the following programme:

                                
                                    Hoisting the flag.
                                    Salute of 33 guns.
                                    Remarks by Govs. Lane and Hammond.
                                    The Star Spangled Banner, sung by Miss C. Richings.
                                    Remarks by Messrs. Hendricks and Voorhees.
                                    E Pluribus Unum, recited by Miss C.
                                        Richings.
                                    Review of the Military, by Governor Morton.
                                

                                 Mr. HEFFREN stated that the committee laving consulted as to the
                                    place for the speaking and recitals, had agreed that it should
                                    be n the front of the State House. It would be impossible for
                                    the crowd to get into the Hall.

                                The report was concurred in. 

                                

                                A message from the Senate, by Mr. Tyner, their Secretary,
                                    announced the acceptance of that body of invitation to attend on
                                    the flag-raising.

                                The House resumed the consideration of bills on the second
                                    reading.

                                Mr. Nebeker's bill [39] to authorize the formation of new
                                    counties, was considered and to the Committee on New
                                        Counties. 

                                The House then, at half-past two o'clock, adjourned. 

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, January 23,1861.
                        
                         Mr. WHITE presented a petition, which was referred to the
                                Special Committee on County and Township Business
                            without reading.

                        Mr. HULL presented a petition, praying for the repeal of the new county
                            acts of '57 and '59 which was read, and took the same reference. 

                        
                            PROTECTION OF FISH.
                             Mr. LINE, from a Select Committee to which as referred a petition
                                for the passage of a law protecting fish in inland waters of the
                                State, submitted a report recommending the passage of Mr. Claypool's
                                bill [S. 40] on that subject. 

                        
                        

                        
                            WHAT HAS BECOME OF THE SCHOOL MONEY?
                             Mr. BEESON offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                State Auditor to report by what law the whole amount of the common
                                school fund was ordered to be paid into the treasury, and why
                                $255,000 of that fund has been withheld from distribution.

                            Mr. ODELL offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Committee on Education to inquire
                                into the expediency of increasing the common school fund so as to
                                afford free schools throughout the State at least three months in
                                the year. 

                        
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF STATE PRINTER.
                             Mr. NEW COMB offered a resolution, providing for a joint Convention
                                at 2 o'clock this afternoon to elect a State Printer to serve for
                                two years; the General Assembly reserving the right to abolish the
                                office, change the rate of compensation, or otherwise legislate on
                                the subject, to which the person elected and his securities shall
                                file consent in the office of Secretary of State.

                            Mr. WAGNER moved to strike out the words "Joint Convention," so that
                                the Houses may be left free to determine the manner of election.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I accept the amendment.

                            Mr. RAY. I move to postpone indefinitely the consideration of this
                                subject.

                            The motion was rejected.

                            Mr. COBB. I move to amend by striking out all that part of the
                                resolution referring to the right of legislation upon the
                                matter.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I am rather inclined to think we have that right, but as
                                it is a question whether, after entering into a contract of this
                                character, we can then rescind it, to save all question, I propose
                                to reserve the power in express terms.

                            Mr. COBB. I withdraw my amendment.

                            The resolution was adopted by yeas 25, nays 17.

                        
                        

                        
                            HOMESTEAD FOR ACTUAL SETTLERS.
                             Mr. LANDERS offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting our
                                Congressmen to use their efforts to secure the passage of a law
                                securing to actual white male settlers over 21 years of age, and to
                                widows a homestead of 160 acres of lard.

                            The resolution was adopted, by yeas 38, nays 0. 

                        
                        

                        
                            ASSESSORS.
                             Mr. JOHNSON offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Finance to inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the revenue law so as to authorize county
                                boards to appoint one or more assessors in large towns or cities.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            GOVERNOR-SUCCESSION.
                             Mr. STONE offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Judiciary Committee to inquire into
                                the expediency of so amending the law, that in case of the removal
                                or death of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor, the duties of
                                Governor shall devolve upon the President of the Senate. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ROAD COMMISSIONERS.
                             Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Roads to inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the law as to make viewers appointed to
                                locate or change roads, discharge the duties required in sections
                                19, 22 and 23 of the Revised Statutes. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ASSESSORS' RETURNS.
                             Mr. JOHNSON offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Finance to inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the Revenue laws as to require assessors
                                to report to county boards on the first Monday in March instead of
                                the first Monday in June. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ASYLUM FOR INEBRIATES.
                             Mr. STONE offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions to inquire into the expediency of
                                providing, at an early day, an asylum for inebriates, to be located
                                at some central place in this State. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
                             Announced the concurrence of that body in the Senate resolution,
                                authorizing the Committee on the State Prison to
                                visit the Michigan City Prison. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON PLEAS COURT IN GIBSON AND OTHER 
                                COUNTIES. 
                             On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the order of business was suspended, and
                                the bill [H. R. 59] to amend section 1 of the act fixing the  time of holding common pleas
                                courts, approved March 5, 1859,was read the first time. The rules
                                were suspended-yeas 40, nays 0-the bill was read the second time by
                                title; then considered as engrossed, read the third time, and
                                finally passed by yeas 62, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                             Mr. SLACK moved to postpone the special order for this hour-being
                                the resolutions on the state of the Union, printed on pages 58 and
                                59 of these reports-until Tuesday next, at 10 o'clock.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. [Mr. Wagner in the chair.] I am anxious to have a vote
                                upon these resolutions, and while I am anxious to hear every
                                gentleman upon this floor express himself, I am also anxious to see
                                Indiana place herself upon record elsewhere in this matter. I
                                propose to do this, and I submit whether it is not fair and frank:
                                Inasmuch as the whole debate has been elicited upon the remedy
                                reported by the minority of the committee, I propose that we act
                                upon the majority report now, and leave the minority report to be
                                acted upon hereafter.

                            Mr. SLACK (interrupting.) You will have to vote upon the amendment
                                first.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. The Senator from Huntington says there is no way of
                                reaching the majority report except by disposing of the amendment of
                                the Senator from Brown, [Mr. Tarkington,] and, unless there is
                                serious objection, I shall ask the Chair to rule, according to the
                                point of order raised by the Senator from Wabash, [Mr. Conner,] the
                                other day. It is not in order, for it is a new and distinct
                                substantive proposition. We have a rule which provides that " no new
                                motion or proposition shall be admitted under color of amendment, as
                                a substitute for the motion or proposition under debate." This is a
                                new proposition. The resolutions are an expression of sentiment on
                                the evils of the day, and the amendment proposes a remedy for these
                                evils. We want to state to the world our position, and then we are
                                ready to enter into a discussion of the remedies. The Chair could
                                properly rule the amendment out of order, and then we could come to
                                a direct vote. I will say to the Senators that they may have
                                tomorrow, next day, the whole of next week; indeed the magnitude of
                                the subject would justify our taking the whole session if we could
                                succeed in maturing a remedy that would prove a solution of our
                                present and impending difficulties.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I am sorry to hear these sentiments fall from the
                                lips of the Senator from Jefferson, [Mr. Cravens.] He being the
                                presiding officer of the Senate when the point of order was made, he
                                should have ruled that amendment out of order.

                            Mr. CRAVENS (interrupting.) I was not in the chair.

                            The PRESIDENT. That matter was not pressed at the time.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. The objection comes at a late hour indeed; after the
                                discussion has been made upon the question. I do not think the point
                                of order is well taken. I understand the amendment is germain, and
                                it is the only question before the Senate that is worth the snap of
                                your finger.

                            The PRESIDENT. Under the resolution referring all propositions of
                                this nature to the Committee on Federal Relations, the gentle, man's
                                amendment is unquestionably out of order.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I insist upon it this amendment has been referred to
                                that commit tee; they have acted upon it; and majority and minority
                                reports have been made to the Senate. My amendment is in the precise
                                language of the minority report, and if the minority report is in
                                order, and has been be. fore the committee, my amendment is in order
                                and has been before the committee.

                            Mr. STEELE. I hope the vote will be taken directly on these
                                resolutions, but if their adoption were to crush out debate, I would
                                vote against it. As was remarked by the Senator from Jefferson, [Mr.
                                Cravens,] if it takes the whole session, I look upon it as the most
                                important thing we can discuss.

                            Mr. JONES. I hope gentlemen will not insist upon a vote, now that so
                                many Senators are absent.

                            Mr. LINE. There are several Senators here who desire to speak upon
                                this question, and who desire also to visit the Northern State
                                Prison, and they must either neglect their duties here, or neglect
                                to attend to their duties there. I hope the Senate, out of courtesy
                                to these Senators, will consent to the postponement. I understand
                                the House Prison Committee have obtained leave of
                                absence, and have left their seats with a view of preparing to start
                                at 11 o'clock.

                            Mr. MELLETT. I expect to go to the Northern Prison, but I am not to
                                be hurried off in this manner. We are under no particular
                                obligations to go at this hour. 

                            Mr. COBB. I am a little surprised at gentlemen opposing this motion.
                                It is well understood that several Senators desire to say something
                                with regard to this question. I desire to speak to this question
                                before it is finally disposed of, and I have reasons personal to
                                myself. I have been charged by a public organ of a certain party in
                                this city as sympathizing with disunion, and I desire to speak upon
                                that point. I desire to give my reasons and opinions upon this
                                subject, that they may be placed upon record with the opinions of
                                other Senators. Being upon the Prison Committee,
                                I am driven to the necessity of foregoing anything personal to
                                myself, if this vote be taken now, for the purpose of performing
                                what I conceive to be a matter of duty in behalf of my constituents.
                                I hope the Senate will postpone this matter until the Committee can
                                return from the Northern Prison.

                            

                            Mr. BAY. There are other reasons, sir,why in my judgment, there
                                should be no immediate action upon this report. It is like the
                                resolutions passed a few days since by the Legislature of Ohio, and
                                they were transmitted to Governors of the Southern States, among
                                others, Virginia. The Governor has laid these resolutions before the
                                Legislature of Virginia, and expressed the opinion that they were to
                                be regarded rather as exasperating the already too excited feeling
                                of the South than otherwise, as proposing no concession, no
                                compromise, nothing but simply a desire to furnish means and men
                                necessary to maintain the Federal Constitution, without regard to
                                either the grievances or state of feeling in the South.

                            Mr. MILLER. I am one of those who desire to make some remarks upon
                                this question, but I shall oppose the postponement of it, for the
                                reason that I believe Indiana should take a stand upon this subject.
                                I understand these resolutions will give a rebuke to treason in the
                                South, and it is time to put ourselves on the record upon this one
                                simple subject.

                            After further talk across the House between Mr. Tarkington and Mr.
                                Mellett-

                            Mr. CRAVENS. The proposition I make is that the Senate now come to a
                                vote upon that part of the question which has not been discussed,
                                leaving the minority report yet open for discussien.

                            The PRESIDENT. The question is on the motion to postpone the
                                consideration of the majority report till Tuesday.

                            This motion was rejected, by yeas 16, nays 25.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to recommit with instructions to report a set of
                                resolutions in accordance with the resolutions introduced in the
                                Senate of the United States by Hon. John J. Crittenden, of Ky.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I desire to say that I am very much opposed to any
                                action that will cut off a full, fair and free expression of
                                sentiment in reference to this question.

                            Mr. ROBINSON. My position requires that I should come upon record on
                                this question, and I wish it not to be understood in casting this
                                vote, that I intend voting against the Crittenden resolutions, or
                                something similar to them.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. Like the Senator from Ohio, [Mr. Robinson,] I desire it
                                expressly understood here, that I do not vote, as I understand it,
                                strictly upon this proposition.

                            The motion to recommit was laid on the table by yeas 26, nays 14a
                                strict party vote.

                            Mr. RAY offered, as an amendment, an additional resolution "declaring
                                it to be expedient for the General Assembly to proceed by law at
                                once to submit at an early day the reception or rejection of the
                                proposition lately introduced into the Senate of the United States
                                by John J. Crittenden, to the popular vote of toe freemen of
                                Indiana."

                            The PRESIDENT. The chair will be compelled to decide the resolution
                                out of order, for it is in effect the same as those already ruled
                                out.

                            Mr. RAY. If the chair so decides, I take an appeal from the decision
                                of the chair.

                            The decision of the chair was sustained by yeas 26, nays 18.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS made an ineffectual motion-yeas 26, nays 13-to strike
                                out that portion of the resolutions reported which says the South
                                has no cause of complaint.

                            Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question, and the demand being
                                seconded by yeas 26, nays 12, the main question was ordered, by
                                consent. 

                             The yeas and nays being demanded and taken, resulted-yeas 28, nays
                                10-as follows : 

                            
                                
                                    
                                         YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Bearss, Beeson,
                                            Berry, Blair, Campbell, Claypool, Conner, Craven of
                                            Madison, Cravens of Jefferson,DeHart,Dickinson,
                                            Grubb,Hamilton, Hull,March, Mellett, Murray, Newcomb,
                                            Robbins, Robinson, Shoemaker, Steele, Stone, Teegarden.
                                            Turner, Wagner, and White-28.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Carnahan, Conley,
                                            Johnson, Lomax, O'Brien, Odell, Ray, Shoulders, Williams
                                            and Wilson-10. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. CARNAHAN, when his name was called, said: There are some portion
                                of these resolutions I do not like to vote against, and there are
                                other portions that I regard as not the truth. It puts me in a
                                quandary, but a good part of it has no good in it much-I regard it
                                as of little or no importance at all, and so I shall vote against
                                it.

                            Mr. CONLEY submits the following reasons for his vote:

                            Mr. President-I vote No on this question, because it impliedly states
                                that the South has no cause for alarm, and the requirements of new
                                guarantees for their property. And in addition to what I have
                                heretofore said, I know that a majority of the people I represent
                                desire the banishment of this irrepressible negro question from the
                                halls of Congress. And they desire the final settlement of this
                                question upon the basis of the Crittenden resolutions, or some other
                                equitable plan of adjustment. The report of the majority of the
                                Committee has not met the real issue between the States. They have
                                proposed no remedy for existing evils. And I am induced to believe
                                the passage of these resolutions will do more harm than good. Its
                                tendency, at least in my opinion, will have that effect. It will be
                                regarded as the ultimatum of the Indiana Legislature. For these
                                reasons, I vote No.

                            Mr. LOMAX I vote No, and submit this as an explanation of my
                                vote:

                            Mr. President-I object to the report presented here by the Chairman
                                of the Committee on Federal Relations, It offers
                                no terms of conciliation; it is therefore useless. But on the
                                contrary, it strongly intimates that our sister Southern States have
                                done wrong, and that they threaten dismemberment without
                                provocation; which charge I object to, because I think it makes that
                                report dangerous.  Again, sir, I
                                understand one resolution of that report to give notice to the
                                Southern States and to the President, that we stand ready, or, in
                                other words, that we pledge the people of Indiana to stand ready,
                                when called on by the Executive, to furnish whatever power we may be
                                able to command, to coerce the complaining States into submission.
                                This pledge, sir, should the attempt be made to carry it out, will,
                                as I believe, produce unheard-of calamities in this country. These
                                are a few of the reasons, briefly, which I offer in justification of
                                my vote. I vote No.

                            Mr. ODELL. I vote No, with the liberty of giving my reason for the
                                vote in the Reports. They are as follows:

                            Mr. President-There is but little in the Report to which I dissent,
                                but, in my opinion, it utterly fails to meet the crisis, and will do
                                no good towards restoring peace and harmony to the distracted parts
                                of our country; but, on the other hand, will tend to widen the
                                breach already made.

                            Mr. RAY, when his name was called, said: I concur in the report in
                                the main, but I think it falls so far short of the exigency of the
                                country, that it will do more harm to the cause of the Union and
                                tranquility in the country than good at this juncture; and for that
                                reason I vote against it. 

                             Mr. SHOULDERS, when his name was called, said: I would like it if
                                the report were in such a form that I could vote for it freely, but
                                I am well aware the constituency I have the honor to represent will
                                not be satisfied with it, and for that reason I shall vote No.

                            The result was announced as above-

                            And so the report was concurred in, and the resolutions passed.

                            The PRESIDENT. The minority report is before the Senate for their
                                action.

                            Mr. RAY. I move its consideration be postponed till two o'clock
                                Tuesday.

                            The PRESIDENT. It is so ordered by consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the first
                                reading, without objection :

                            By Mr. RAY: [59] to amend section 1 of an aet for the incorporation
                                of manufacturing and mining companies, approved May 20, 1852, so as
                                to provide for the incorporation of companies to furnish motive
                                power to carry on such businees, or supply any city or village with
                                water.

                            By Mr. ROBBINS: [60] defining certain felonies and prescribing
                                punishment therefor; providing that any attorney or other person
                                collecting any sum of money exceeding $10, and neglecting to pay it
                                over to the party entitled, shall be deemed guilty of felony, aud
                                imprisoned not less than one nor more than five years, and fined not
                                exceeding double the amount of money so retained.

                            By Mr. MURRAY: [61] Requiring county treasurers to settle with county
                                auditors the first Monday in August for delinquent taxes &c.,
                                and repealing an act amending section 103 of the Assessment act,
                                approved March 5 1859.

                            By Mr. SHIELDS: [62] To provide for the collection of claims against
                                railroad companies far labor done, materials furnished, stock
                                killed, &c,[A message from the House announced its concurrence
                                in the Senate resolution, relating to the election of State Printer;
                                also the pass, age of a resolution inviting the Senate to the Hall
                                of the House at 2 o'clock for that purpose.]

                            By Mr. MURRAY: [63] To change the time that the township trustees
                                shall apportion the money for school purposes to second Monday in
                                March.

                            By Mr. CRAVEN: [64] To provide for the rights of married women in
                                cases of sale of land by execution or any other legal proceedings
                                when the wife does not consent to the same; the interest of the wife
                                therein shall be deemed to be valid as if the husband had died.

                            By Mr. SHOEMAKER: [65] The Judge of Common Pleas Court may by order
                                direct that a jury shall not be selected or summoned, if the
                                business of the court does not require it. 
                        
                        

                        
                            DECEDENTS' ESTATES.
                             Mr. CONNER, by leave, returned from the Judiciary
                                    Committee Mr. Carnahan's bill [S. 14,]-described on
                                page 25 of these reports-recommending its passage with
                                amendment.

                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be engrossed for
                                the third reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF STATE PRINTER. 
                             The House message recited above was taken up-

                            Mr. CRAVENS. I find there is no provision in law how this election
                                shall be made. Now, as there is no method, I would submit to
                                Senators whether it is not more appropriate to make this election by
                                concurrent vote. The same difficulty that met us in relation to the
                                election of United States Senator meets us here, and I think the
                                manner we obviated the difficulty in that case would give us a clue
                                as to how we can do it now. In order to have it done legally and
                                constitutionally, I would move that the election be by concurrent
                                vote.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. Two years ago the State Printer was elected by joint
                                ballot, and I think we have a law regulating the election in that
                                way. I think it was a dangerous precedent to depart from that
                                practice. If we go in joint convention for the election, we have the
                                law on our side.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. I am willing to withdraw my motion.

                            The invitation for a joint convention was accepted. And then-

                            On motion the Senate took a recess till two o'clock. 
                        
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             Mr. WAGNER introduced a bill [66] to provide for a general system of
                                common schools, &c., (the same as the bill [S. 85] of last
                                session) and on his motion the rules were suspended-yeas 35, nays
                                1-and the bill read the first time by title only. 


                            
                                ARCHITECT FOR STATE PRISON COMMITTEE.
                                 Mr. BEARSS, offered a resolution authorizing the joint
                                        committee on the State Prison to employ an
                                    architect to assist them in their investigations.

                                [A message from the House inviting the Senate to appear in their
                                    Hall instanter, was received and accepted. When the Senate
                                    returned-]

                                Mr. CARNAHAN moved to amend the resolutions by providing that the
                                    architect be sent to examine the Prison, and that the committee
                                    remain at home.

                                This amendment was laid on the table by yeas 27, nays 14.

                                After debate theron-

                                The resolution was adopted. 
                            
                            

                            
                                RECORDERS' AND SURVEYORS' FEE BILLS.
                                 Mr. TURNER offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                    directing the Judiciary Committee to inquire
                                    into the expediency of amending the law authorizing Recorders
                                    and Surveyors to issue fee bills, so the same may waive
                                    valuation and appraisement laws. 
                            
                            

                            
                                DECEDENTS' ESTATES.
                                 Mr. Carnahan's bill [S. 14,] described on page 25 of these
                                    reports, was taken up, read the third time, and passed by yeas
                                    40, nays 0. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                 The following bills were introduced and passed the first reading
                                    without objection :

                                By Mr. BLAIR : [67] To provide compensation to persons who may
                                    bring fugitives to justice.

                                By Mr. NEWCOMB: [68] To establish an insurance department and
                                    provide compensation for officers thereof.

                                By Mr. NEWCOMB: [69] To regulate the business transacted in this
                                    State by any Fire, Marine, Life, Health, or Life Stock Insurance
                                    Companies not incorporated in this State. 
                            
                            

                            
                                CLERK FOR FINANCE COMMITTEE.
                                 Mr. CONNER asked and obtained authority for the Finance
                                        Committee to employ a Clerk.

                                On motion, Messrs. Mellett, Johnson, and Conley were added to the
                                    Committee. 
                            
                            

                            
                                BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.
                                 Mr. Conley's [S. 6,] repealing the county acts of '57 and '59,
                                    was read and laid on the table.

                                Mr. Conner's [S. 11,] concerning tax titles, described on page 25
                                    of these reports, was read the third time and finally passed by
                                    yeas 33, nays 2. 
                            
                            

                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                 On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the order of business was suspended,
                                    and the following Senate bills-introduced January 15-read the
                                    second time and severally referred:

                                Mr. Hamilton's [31] to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                                Mr. Murray's [32,] Mr. Wolfe's [37,] and a select committee's
                                    [38,] to the Finance Committee.

                                Mr. Wilson's [38] to the Committee on
                                        Corporations.

                                Mr. Wolfe's [34] to the Committee on
                                        Temperance.

                                 Mr. Wagner's [35] to the special Committee on
                                        Apportionment.

                                Mr. Miller's [36] to the Committee on
                                    Roads.

                                Mr. Clay pool's [40] ordered engrossed.

                                And then-

                                On motion the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, January 23,1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                             By Mr. McCLURG: The petition of J. M. Armitage and others, citizens
                                of Clinton Co., asking for a repeal of the new county act of 1857
                                and 1859.

                            By Mr, BRETT: The petition of M. Sanford and others, citizens of
                                Daviess Co., for the same object.

                            By Mr. HENRICKS : The petition of John H. Harper and others, citizens
                                of St. Joseph Co., for the same object; which were severally
                                referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.

                            By Mr. HEFFREN: The petition of John I. Morrison and others, citizens
                                of Washington Co., asking for an appropriation of $500 in the hands
                                of the Commissioner of that county, to aid in payment of the debt
                                contracted by citizens of that county for draining and removing a
                                dam in the Muscatatack; which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Swamp Lands.

                            By Mr. WOODHULL: The petition of Moses McClanhan and others, citizens
                                of Indiana, asking for a fish protection law similar to that of the
                                State of Ohio ; which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.

                            By Mr. PROW: The petition of Wm. Blackburn, late constable of Brown
                                township, in Washington Co., praying for relief by the State's
                                repayment of $25 expense incurred by him in arresting a fugitive
                                from justice.

                            On motion by Mr. PARRETT, it was laid on the table.

                            On motion by Mr. BUNDY, (the order of business being suspended for
                                the purpose,) the House took from the table the concurrent
                                resolution of the Senate, proposing that the committees of both
                                Houses appointed to visit the Northern Penitentiary shall proceed
                                together and draw on the Treasury for expenses.

                            Mr. WOODHULL objected to the proposition, because it did not indicate
                                the amount  to be drawn. Let
                                them go there and perform their duty, and when the expense should be
                                incurred, he would vote for its payment. It had been intimated that
                                the railroads would carry them free.

                            Mr. HEFFREN, in his seat. They'll want something to eat.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend, by inserting after the word "
                                appoint," these words: " which Committee of the House shall consist
                                of three members of the Select Committee on the Northern
                                    Prison, to be selected by said committee."The SPEAKER
                                ruled it out or orderas having been once voted down.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. It was not voted down, but laid on the table.

                            The SPEAKER. It is then in order.

                            Mr. FISHER. Should not the House indicate what committee shall
                                go?

                            Mr. BUNDY. The committee was named in the resolution of the
                                Senate.

                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the amendment was laid on the table, and
                                the question recurred on the Senate resolution.

                            Mr. ORR understood this matter was fixed the other day.

                            Mr. CRAIN. A portion of the Select Committee had had a conference
                                with the Senate Committee, and they were anxious to investigate the
                                Prison jointly, and so save expense to the State. If the committees
                                did not investigate jointly, as a matter of course the witnesses
                                would be brought before both committees. Let us go about it in a
                                business like manner to save expense. There had been enough
                                said-$400 worth of talk was enough.

                            Mr. FISHER did not understand that the resolution proposed a joint
                                investigatiou any further than the examination of the premises.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. That was their request now.

                            The House concurred in the resolution. 
                        
                        

                        
                             REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES. 
                             Mr. VEATCH, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned the resolution of the House for an inquiry into the
                                expediency of amending the 10th section of the Justices act, so as
                                to give them jurisdiction to try and determine cases founded on
                                contract and tort where the sum does not exceed $300with the
                                expression of the opinion of the committee that it is inexpedient to
                                legislate on that subject.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the same committee, returned the resolution of the
                                House for inquiry into the expediency of amending the Practice act,
                                so that all cases appealable from justices shall be tried on the
                                papers, and reported the opinion that it is expedient to legislate
                                on the subject.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the same Committee returned the resolution of the
                                House for inquiry into the expediency of giving county commissioners
                                power to levy taxes for public improvements, and reported"
                                sufficient has been conferred by existing laws."

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the same Committee returned the resolution for
                                inquiry into into constitutionality and expediency of enacting a law
                                permitting residents along turnpikes and plankroads to levy a tax on
                                real estate for their construction and reported legislation
                                inexpedient.

                            Mr. HAWORTH. The resolution require a report on the constitutionality
                                of such legislation : and on his motion, the resolution was
                                re-committed.

                            Mr. GRESHAM obtained leave of absence for the Military
                                    Committee for this afternoon.

                            Mr. FRASIER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned the resolution of the House for
                                inquiry into the expediency of requiring the jails to be kept by the
                                coroner, and reported-" inexpedient.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. HEFFREN obtained leave of absence from the select Prison
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. FRASIER, from the same Committee returned Mr. McLean's bill[H. R.
                                4,] to amend sections 70 and 71, of the assessment act of June 21st
                                1852, with an amendment requiring assessors to make their returns to
                                the Auditor the first of March, instead of the last of May and
                                limiting the time for the treasurer to call on the tax payers, from
                                January to the 20th of February. He explained the object and effect
                                of the amendments. It was desirable to give the county auditors
                                longer time to make their returns.

                            [A Senate message announced a bill, and a concurrent resolution for
                                the election of Public Printer this day at 2 o'clock.]

                            Mr. McLEAN. This bill had been asked for by many county auditors. The
                                single principle of the bill was to shorten the time of making the
                                assessors' returns, the change being from the first of June till the
                                first of March-to give time to the auditors to make out the
                                delinquent lists. The law requires the delinquent lists to be made
                                in October. It was an important bill and should receive the
                                attention of the House.

                            Mr. EDSON. While it was an advantage to the Auditor it was a
                                disadvantage to the assessor, on the score of time.

                            Mr. McLEAN. The bill provides that the assessor may appoint
                                assistants.

                            Mr. UNDERWOOD desired the bill to pass.

                            Mr. ROBBINS. The Auditors in his part of the State were anxious for
                                this legislation. He did not think it would trammel the
                                assessors.

                            Mr. FISHER. Another consideration in favor of this bill was a
                                diminution in the expense making the assessment. Most of the
                                assessor managed now to put in the whole time from January till
                                June, and got their per diem. If compelled to make their returns in
                                two months they would work better. 

                            

                            Mr. KENDRICK. The assessor of this (Center) township, with one
                                assistant, by working assiduously bad only time enough now.

                             Mr. CASON. In the large townships, the proposed provision was, that
                                the assessor may employ as many assistants as needed. But the
                                Auditor could only employ some two or three clerks to make the
                                duplicate and delinquent list, because there was but one book. In
                                many cases it was difficult and impossible for him to do his work
                                from June to October.

                            Mr. VEATCH suggested amendments. The Board of Commissioners should be
                                required to make their annual levy earlier, otherwise here would be
                                little advantage from this bill. The thing would be out of joint. He
                                suggested also, that the time for making out the delinquent lists be
                                extended to November; and that the law requiring the Treasurers to
                                go through the townships after the taxes ought to he repealed. It
                                amounted to nothing, and made considerable expense.

                            Mr. WOODHULL concurred in these suggestions.

                            Mr. RAGAN proposed to amend by limiting the time of the assessors'
                                returns to the first of April.

                            On motion by Mr. McLEAN, the bill and amendments were re-committed to
                                the same Committee.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG submitted two resolutions directing the select
                                committee on Printing to report a bill requiring the Public Printer
                                to furnish all the paper necessary for the public printing; also
                                providing specifically for the number of journals of the House and
                                Senate, and of the documentary journal, reports of the officers of
                                State and of the benevolent institution's, to be printed, and making
                                such other modifications of the law regulating the-duties of the
                                Printer, as to prevent abuses in the public printing.

                            2. In order to give time for the preparation and perfection of a
                                proper vote on the subject, resolved, that the election of a Public
                                Printer be postponed till Thursday, the 81st day of January,
                                1861.

                            Mr. GRESHAM was in favor of letting the printing to the lowest
                                responsible bidder. He had submitted a resolution to effect this,
                                and a committee had been raised under it, but the House did not seem
                                disposed to give the committee anything to do.

                            The resolution was rejected.

                            Mr. DOBBINS submitted an order that the Judiciary
                                    Committee inquire whether there is any law in force
                                defining the offenses of fornication and adultery.

                            On motion by Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, it was laid on the table.

                            Mr. WOODHULL submitted an order, which was adopted, requiring the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expediency of paying all officers and witnesses in criminal
                                prosecutions the same fees as in other cases.

                            Mr. ROBBINS submitted an order, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges to inquire
                                into the expediency of making a residence of 60 days in the county
                                and 30 days in the township necessary to constitute a voter. 
                        
                        

                        
                            UNION RESOLUTIONS.
                             Mr. McLEAN introduced a series of resolutions, passed at a Union
                                convention of all parties of the citizens of Vigo county, held at
                                Terre Haute. He said the series of resolutions which he held in his
                                hand, were adopted with entire unanimity at a meeting of near one
                                thousand of the citizens of his county, who, in view of the
                                threatening aspect of our National affairs, forgetting the
                                differences and distinctions which had heretofore divided them,
                                casting aside all party ties and party affiliations, around the
                                common altar of their country's good they had met to propose some
                                plan of adjustment of those distracting difficulties which so
                                ominously portend our dismemberment as a people, and hold out the
                                olive branch of peace and conciliation to our disaffected Southern
                                brethren. No duty devolving upon him since the commencement of this
                                session afforded him more real pleasure and gratification than the
                                duty imposed upon him by the convention of his fellow-citizens of
                                his county, requesting him to present these resolutions to the House
                                and ask their adoption. The resolutions were replete with true Union
                                sentiments, and breathed a spirit which could not fail, he thought,
                                to find a cordial response in the breast of every member upon the
                                floor, to whatever party he might belong. 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        The people of Vigo county, without distinction of party,
                                            and utterly rejecting all desire to force mere party
                                            opinions upon the country at this time, have met
                                            together in the spirit of concord and patriotism, to
                                            consider the present alarming condition of our National
                                            affairs, and to make known their opinions thereon. In
                                            view of the fact that the peace, prosperity and
                                            happiness of the people are endangered-the harmony of
                                            the States disturbed-and the continuance of the Federal
                                            Union itself threatened with dissolution; and, also, in
                                            view of the fact that in no part of the country have the
                                            people a deeper and more lasting interest in the
                                            preservation of the Union than in the Wabash Valley,
                                            which has ever sought a market at the South as well as
                                            the North; and believing that our people, both from
                                            conviction and duty, desire to maintain friendly
                                            relations with all sections of the country, and to
                                            preserve the Federal compact in the spirit in which it
                                            was made and established by our Fathers: Therefore,

                                        Resolved, That it is the highest aim
                                            and most imperative duty of patriotism and philanthropy,
                                            to preserve the Union of the States in all its
                                            integrity, and maintain the Federal compact in its
                                            spirit; and that in the true and honest sentiment of
                                            fraternal love and justice, as well as fidelity to the
                                            National Union, it is demanded that we use all honorable
                                            means, and exert every rightful power, to defeat the
                                            purposes of those whose spirit and acts endanger the one
                                            or impair the other.

                                        

                                        Resolved, That it is the duty of all
                                            good citizens of all parties and sections, to urge upon
                                            Congress a prompt and liberal settlement of the questions which now
                                            divide and separate the North and the South, and by
                                            concession, compromise, and a tolerant indulgence of
                                            every practical interest, give assurance to the
                                            complaining States that no wrong is intended to their
                                            material interests by the present or incoming
                                            Administrations; and that such amendments should be made
                                            to the Federal Constitution as will forever banish from
                                            the Halls of Congress, and from the political contests
                                            of this country, the exciting discussions which
                                            appertain to African slavery.

                                        Resolved, That Indiana has ever been
                                            faithful to the requirements of the Federal
                                            Constitution, and we repel, with a proper spirit of
                                            indignation, the charge that any of our laws have ever
                                            been framed with the purpose of impeding or nullifying
                                            any law of Congress, or any enactment made in pursuance
                                            of the Constitution of the United States.

                                        Resolved, That we are warmly attached
                                            to the Federal Constitution-that we do not recognize in
                                            the diversity of our institutions any cause of conflict
                                            between different States; but, on the contrary, we deem
                                            the varieties of climate, soil, productions, domestic
                                            institutions, industry, modes of thought throughout our
                                            widely extended country, grounds of a more lasting and
                                            perfect Union, and that we regard its dissolution, in
                                            whole or in part, as eminently disastrous to all our
                                            interests, and as destructive of civil and religious
                                            liberty throughout the world.

                                        Resolved, That we deny the
                                            constitutional right of any State, or any portion of the
                                            people thereof, to secede from the Union, and that we
                                            are equally opposed to nullification at the North and
                                            secession at the South, as violative of the Constitution
                                            of the United States.

                                        Resolved, That while we recognize the
                                            power and duty of the Federal Government to protect the
                                            property of the United States by all constitutional
                                            means, yet as the employment of military force by the
                                            Federal Government to coerce submission of the seceding
                                            States, will eventually plunge the country into civil
                                            war, and forever prevent the accommodation of the
                                            fearful issue now before the country; we therefore
                                            earnestly entreat, not only the Federal Government, but
                                            the seceding States, to stay the hand of military force
                                            till the people of all the States can be heard from, and
                                            the voice of reason and patriotism shall take the place
                                            of passion, violence, and the bloody arbitrament of the
                                            sword.

                                        Resolved, That it is the prompting of
                                            patriotism, and the dictate of wisdom, to make an
                                            earnest attempt to save the Union by concilliation and
                                            concession; and, therefore, in the spirit of compromise,
                                            we are willing to accept the amendments to the
                                            Constitution proposed by the members of Congress from
                                            the border States, or any other fair measure, which
                                            shall be satisfactory to the States composing the
                                            American Union, believing that mere personal opinions
                                            should now bend to the over-ruling necessity of
                                            preserving the Government from dissolution.

                                        Resolved, That it is the duty of the
                                            Legislature of every State in the Union which has passed
                                            laws to obstruct or embarrass the return of fugitive
                                            slaves, or to set at defiance any law Congress on that
                                            subject, to immediately repeal all such laws or
                                            enactments, and to re-establish thereby, fraternal
                                            feelings in all sections of the country.

                                        Resolved, That should Congress be
                                            unable agree on any just compromise,or fail for any peas
                                            to do so, it is the duty of the Legislature, now in
                                            session, to provide by law for a Convention of the
                                            people of this State, to the end that delegates be
                                            appointed to a Convention of the border States, slave
                                            and free, and the position, authoritatively declared,
                                            which Indiana shall assume in the perilous crisis now
                                            upon the country.

                                        Resolved, That the free navigation of
                                            the Mississippi, and the use of it as a public highway
                                            for the North-west, can never be surrendered, and that
                                            we will do all that can be done to leave that right for
                                            the generations which may follow us and bequeath it to
                                            our children as the legacy Of their fathers. It was the
                                            highway of our fathers and it must be that of our sons. 

                                        Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing
                                            preamble and resolutions be forwarded to our Senator and
                                            Representatives in the State Legislature and also to our
                                            Senators and Representatives in Congress, and that they
                                            be requested to present the same to the bodies of which
                                            they are members, and advocate the plan of adjustment
                                            herein proposed. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             The resolutions were referred to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen.

                            Mr. ORR submitted an order, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expediency and propriety of passing a law prohibiting the
                                intermarriage of persons within the fourth degree of Consanguinity
                                in the collateral lines.

                            Mr. PACKARD submitted an order, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on the Penitentiary inquire into
                                the expediency of erecting a House of Correction for juvenile
                                offenders.

                            Mr. ROBBINS submitted an order, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Benevolent Institutions to
                                inquire into the expediency of enlarging the Asylum for the Insane,
                                by the construction of the right wing thereof, as recommended by the
                                Superintendent of that Institution.

                            Mr. COOPRIDER submitted an order, which was adopted, instructing the
                                Committee on Ways and Means to inquire into the expediency of so
                                amending the law now regulating the assessment of personal property
                                for taxation and creating a Board of Equalization to equalize the
                                valuation thereof, as to require the several township assessors,
                                together with the county Auditor, to meet at the Auditor's office on
                                the first Monday of January in each year, and determine upon the
                                valuation of all cereal grains, pork, bacon, hay, and all other
                                leading articles of personal property, so far as the same may be
                                made general ; and of further amending the law so as to exempt the
                                property of widow women, to the amount of $300, from taxation. 

                             Mr. McLEAN submitted a resolution, which  was adopted, expressing the thanks of
                                the House to Miss Caroline Richings, for her patriotic compliance
                                yesterday with the invitatation of the body to sing on the occasion
                                of raising the flag on the dome of the capitol. 

                            Mr. WOODS submitted an order, which was adopted requesting the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the school law so that the Trustee shall
                                equally divide the public money in his township for school purposes
                                amongst all schools requiring but one teacher ; that a school of 25
                                pupils or under, in attendance, shall be considered a school
                                requiring but one teacher; and that for every 10 pupils over 25 in
                                attendance the school shall receive one-fourth more money than those
                                schools requiring but one teacher; and for any less number than 10
                                in attendance over 25, shall receive in proportion in the same
                                ratio. The number in attendance shall be the average attendance,
                                certified by the oath or affirmation of the teacher-no pupil to be
                                counted "in attendance" unless such pupil has been enumerated and
                                attached to such school according to law.

                            [A Senate message announced the final passage of Mr. Holcomb's bill
                                [H. R. 59.]

                            Mr. ROBBINS submitted an order, which Was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges inquire
                                and report on the necessity of a law excluding negroes and mulattoes
                                from the common schools.

                            Mr. BRACKEN submitted an order directing the Committee on
                                    Education to report a bill to raise the present
                                inefficient school tax from one mill to two mills on the dollar.

                            Mr. BINGHAM proposed to amend by inserting the words-"inquire into
                                the expediency of;" which was accepted, and so the resolution was
                                adopted.

                            Mr. RAGAN submitted an order, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means to inquire into
                                the expediency of so amending the law in regard to the collection of
                                the revenue as to make it imperative on the county Treasurers to
                                send out their deputies and make all possible effort to collect the
                                revenue previous to the return of delinquency and damage of ten per
                                cent., as now required.

                            Mr. VEATCH submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on County and Township Business
                                inquire into the expediency of so amending the law in relation to
                                the county Treasurer, that he shall not be required to visit the
                                townships for the purpose of collecting taxes.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG submitted a preamble and resolution, which was
                                adopted, rehearsing the expediency of amending the law regulating
                                the pardoning power, so as to prevent its abuse, and directing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to inquire into the
                                expediency and propriety of so amending the 17th section of Art. 5
                                of the Constitution, that a council composed of the officers of the
                                State may be appointed, without whose advice and consent the
                                Governor shall not grant pardons; and also to provide that in all
                                applications for pardon full notes of the testimony, certified to be
                                such by the judge before whom the convict was tried, must be
                                furnished to the pardoning power, before any action can be had
                                thereon.

                            Mr. HALL submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means inquire whether
                                further legislation is necessary to prevent overdrawing
                                appropriations.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS submitted an order, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Benevolent Institutions inquire
                                into the expediency of providing an Asylum for Inebriates in some
                                central portion of the State.

                            Mr. THOMPSON submitted an order, that the Committee on
                                    Banks inquire into the expediency of increasing the
                                Branches of the Bank of the State. It was laid on the table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.
                             By Mr. WILLIAMS. [85] To amend the title of the act to provide for
                                the erection and repair of bridges, and to repeal the act to provide
                                for the erection and repair of bridges, approved March 3, 1859.

                            By Mr. MOSS. [86] To amend sections 8 and 10 of the Justices' act, of
                                June 9, 1852.

                            By Mr. ORR. [87] Exempting parsonages from taxation.

                            By Mr. PACKARD. [88] To repeal section 13 of the Justices' act of
                                June 9, 1852.

                            By Mr. ROBERTS. [89] To amend section 9 of the act to amend the act
                                to authorize and regulate the business of general banking in this
                                State, so as [to make the State Auditors certificate prima facia evidence against banks.

                             By Mr. TURNER. [90] To provide for a registration of voters; to
                                prevent corruption in voting, and to define what is a residence of a
                                voter.

                            By Mr. KNOWLTON. [91] To amend the act approved January 27, 1847, to
                                amend the act to incorporate the Eel River Seminary Society in Cass
                                county, approved January 21, 1859, &c.

                            By Mr. GIFFORD: [92] Prescribing the duties of clerks, justices, and
                                auditors, and treasurers in reference to jury fees, Ones,
                                forfeitures, and unclaimed fees, and repealing conflicting laws.

                            By Mr. COLLINS, of Whitley. [93] To apportion Senators and
                                Representatives for the next six years, [identical with that
                                introduced into the Senate:]

                            Which were severally passed to the second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ELECTION OF STATE PRINTER.
                             Mr. BUNDY asked and obtained unanimous consent for the consideration
                                of the Senate concurrent resolution for the election of State
                                Printer at 2 o'clock this day, in such manner as the two Houses
                                shall determine, the General Assembly reserving the right to abolish
                                said office, and otherwise legislate on  the subject at pleasure, &c. Mr.
                                B. moved that the House concur.

                            Mr. ROBBINS considered that the bill was premature-that it should
                                wait for the proposition to do the public printing by contract.

                            Mr. GRESHAM demand the yeas and nays, and they were ordered and
                                taken. The resolution was concurred in by yeas 49, nays 38.

                            Mr. NEBEKER submitted a resolution of invitation to the Senate to a
                                joint convention for this purpose at 2 o'clock, which was adopted by
                                consent.

                            The SPEAKER suggested a re-adjustment of the clerks' desks ; and-

                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, it was ordered that the Speaker be
                                authorized to make any arrangement he shall see proper in the
                                matter.

                            Mr. ANDERSON obtained leave of absence till Monday.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG inquired what was the purport of the newspaper order
                                for the German papers ? He had a pile of the Free
                                    Press, but did not receive the Volksblatt.

                            The SPEAKER. It applied to the German papers printed in this
                                city.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. One of them was a daily.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. The original intention was that we were to have a weekly
                                paper from each of these German editors.

                            Mr. ROBBINS, chairman of the Newspaper Committee,
                                concurred in Mr. Nebekers statement. He did not receive the Volksblatt.

                            Mr. LANE proposed that the committee confer with the editor of the
                                    Free Press and inform him of the intent of the
                                order. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             On motion by Mr. PROW, Mr. Knowlton had leave of absence.

                            After proceedings in a call of the House-

                            Mr. ORR submitted an order that the Doorkeeper prepare a list of
                                members' residences to facilitate business when it becomes necessary
                                to send for absentees, which was laid on the table.

                            Mr. EDSON submitted an order, which was adopted, inviting the Senate
                                instanter to the joint convention.

                            Mr. BUNDY, under a question of privilege, brought to the notice of
                                the House a paragraph in the New Albany Ledger, by
                                its reporter here, stating that Mr. Bundy had offered a resolution
                                inviting all the negroes in the Southern States to come into the
                                State of Indiana as an asylum. He was a very philanthropic man, but
                                had offered no such resolution as that. He had presented a petition
                                for an invitation to poor white people of the South to emigrate to
                                this State; but the paragraph (which was read by the clerk,) was a
                                total misrepresentation of anything that has been said in this
                                House.

                            Mr. PROSSRR read an acknowledgement of the error, and courteous amende, in a letter by the same reporter, printed
                                in the Cincinnati Enquirer of this morning.

                            Mr. BUNDY, satisfied with the explanation would ask for no further
                                proceedings. 


                            
                                ELECTION OF STATE PRINTER.
                                 The Senate responded to the invitation to the joint session, and
                                    the President of the Senate presiding announced the order of the
                                    election of State Printer, in compliance with the act of
                                    1843.

                                The Senator from Knox nominated, Joseph J. Bingham.

                                The Senator from Marion nominated, Berry R. Sulgrove.

                                The PRESIDENT of the Senate reported the result, viz: Whole
                                    number of votes 127-necessary to a choice 64. Of these Bingham
                                    received 47 and Sulgrove 80. So Berry R. Sulgrove having
                                    received a majority was declared duly elected State Printer-to
                                    serve two years from and after the expiration of the term of the
                                    present incumbent of the office. 
                            
                            

                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                 The House now proceeded to the consideration of bills on the
                                    second reading.

                                Mr. McClurg's bill [40] to amend the game law, was referred to
                                    the Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                                Mr. Newman's bill [41] to amend the law in respect to levees and
                                    drains; Mr. Williams's bill [43] to repeal the pilot act, and
                                    Mr. Gresham's bill [53.] were referred to the Judiciary
                                        Committee.

                                Mr. McLean's bill [44] to amend the first section of the act to
                                    provide for the management and disposition of the estates of
                                    those who have absented themselves, &c., coming up-

                                Mr. McLEAN said the only change was in the time of absence, from
                                    10 years to 2 years. "Ten years" was a clerical error in the law
                                    of the last session, as the records would show.

                                The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. Williams's bill [45] to regulate insurance companies, coming
                                    up-

                                Mr. PACKARD proposed to amend by inserting after the word's
                                    "$100,000," the words: "and shall have first deposited $25,000,
                                    for the payment of all losses, with the Treasurer of State."

                                On motion by Mr. McLEAN, the bill and proposed amendment were
                                    referred to the select committee on that subject.

                                Mr. Collins's, of Adams, bill [47] to amend the supervisors' act
                                    of March 5, 1856, coming up-

                                Mr. COLLINS said the object was to change and extend the time of
                                    working land taxes on roads from the 15th of September to the
                                    1st of November.

                                Mr. WOODHULL proposed to amend, by striking out "November''' and
                                    inserting "July."

                                On motion by Mr. STOTSENBERG, the bill and amendment were referred to the
                                        Commitee on County and Township
                                    Business.

                                Mr. Grover's bill [46] to legalize proceedings in special terms,
                                    coming up-

                                Mr. GROVER explained its provisions. 

                                 Mr. FRASIER said the most important cases had been decided at
                                    such terms; and if the law was unconstitutional, and the Supreme
                                    Court should lay their hand on it, we should have a nice time of
                                    litigation.

                                It was ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. Black's bill [48,] supplemental to the estray law, was
                                    referred to the Committee on Agriculture.

                                Mr. Atkisson's bill [49,] to restrain hogs, took the same
                                    reference.

                                Mr. Cameron's bill [50] to repeal the act of March 5, 1859, for
                                    juries the third day of term, was referred to the
                                        Committee on Organization of Courts.

                                Mr. Jones's, of Vermillion, bill [51] to fix terms in the 8th
                                    circuit, was referred to select committee.

                                Mr. Collins's, of Whitley, bill [52] to authorize Justices to
                                    administer oaths, was ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. Orr's bill [54] coming up-

                                Mr. ORR said its object was to repeal the 113th and 117th
                                    sections of the school law, requiring visitation and lectures by
                                    the Superintendent of Public Instruction.

                                It was a service always paid for, but never performed.

                                Mr. FISHER. It was worthy of consideration, whether this service
                                    should be performed or not.

                                It was referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.

                                 Mr. Ferguson's bill [55] to provide for fences across county and
                                    township roads at ferries, &c., coming up-

                                Mr. FERGUSON stated its provisions. It would save a large amount
                                    of fencing along White river in his region.

                                It was referred to the Committee on Roads.

                                The House adjourned. 

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 24,1861.
                        

                        Mr. WILSON presented a memorial from a mass meeting held in Vigo county,
                            on the 19th inst., which was read and referred to the Committee
                                on Federal Relations.

                        Mr. HULL presented something in the nature of a railroad proposition,
                            concerning killing of stock, &c., which was read and referred to the
                                Committee on Corporations. 

                        
                            QUAILS AND PHEASANTS.
                             Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Agriculture, to
                                which was referred Mr. Claypool's bill, [S. 19,] relating to the
                                killing of quails and pheasants, returned the same, recommending
                                passage, with an amendment making the time between the 1st of
                                November and the 1st of February, and reducing the fine one
                                half.

                            The Senate concurred in the committee report. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SHEEP-KILLING BY DOGS.
                            Mr. JOHNSON, from the same committee, returned Mr. Jones's bill, [S.
                                16,] requiring assessors to number sheep killed by dogs, &c.,
                                recommending passage.

                            The committee report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            TOWNSHIP TRUSTEES.
                             Mr. MILLER, from the Committee on Education,
                                returned Mr. Lomax'a bill, [S. 13,] doubling the term of office of
                                township trustees, recommending its reference to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.

                            The committee report was concurred in.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN moved to instruct the committee to amend the bill by
                                doubling the pay of trustees.

                            Mr. Miller favored, and Messrs. Turner, Claypool, Stone and Hull
                                opposed the motion.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to instruct the committee to inquire into the
                                expediency of abolishing the office.

                            These two motions were laid on the table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                             Mr. MARCH asked and obtained leave to record his vote in favor of
                                the resolutions on the State of the Union, adopted in his absence
                                yesterday morning.

                            Mr. SHIELDS obtained leave to vote "no" upon the same resolutions,
                                and said: I should on the first blush have voted to concur in the
                                majority report, but upon second examination I find that the report
                                denies that our Southern brethren have any right to complain ; in
                                that I cannot concur, and for that reason I shall vote against the
                                report. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPLENISHMENT OF THE TREASURY.
                             Mr. JONES offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Finance Committee to inquire into
                                the expediency of reporting a bill requiring county treasurers to
                                pay into the State Treasury what revenue they may have in their
                                hands on the 15th of February, 1861. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INSOLVENT PRISONERS.
                             Mr. O'BRIEN offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                requesting the Judiciary Committee to inquire
                                into the expediency of empowering county boards to discharge all
                                persons imprisoned for failure to pay fine on account of the
                                insolvency of such persons. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INDIANA UNIVERSITY.
                             Mr. MARCH offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                requesting the Trustees of the Indiana University to report to the
                                Senate the present condition of the University fund, what losses
                                have occurred, making suggestions, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CAUSES FOR DIVORCE.
                             Mr. CRAVENS offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                instructing the Judiciary Committee to inquire
                                into the expediency of adding to
                                the causes for which party shall be entitled to a divorce idiocy an
                                hopeless insanity. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             The following bills were introduced and passed the first reading
                                without objection:

                            By Mr. NEW COMB: [70] For the relief of John N. White.

                            By Mr. WAGNER: [71] To provide for th incorporation of street
                                railroad companies.

                            By Mr. RAY: [72] Supplemental to the mililitia law, approved June 14,
                                1852, repealing sections 3 to 20 inclusive, and for a more per feet
                                organization of the militia. The rule was suspended-yeas 35, nays
                                0-the bill read the first and second time by title only, laid on the
                                table and 300 copies ordered printed.

                            By Mr. LOMAX: [73] To amend an act authorizing Agricultural Societies
                                to purchase and hold real estate, approved February 7 1855. The same
                                bill that passed the extra session of 1858, but which never found it
                                way in the laws.

                            By Mr. CRAVEN: [74] Fixing the times of holding the Circuit Courts in
                                the seventh Judicial Circuit. The rules were suspended-yeas 34, nays
                                0-the bill read the second time by title only, and referred to a
                                select committee composed of Senators whose constituents are
                                interested in the bill.

                            By Mr. WILSON: [75] To amend section 5 of an act to provide for the
                                sale of county seminaries, &c., approved June 12, 1852.

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: [76] To legalize the listing and assessment of
                                property in cities of this State, making out the tax duplicate and
                                authorizing treasurers to collect taxes in certain cases.

                            By Mr. JONES: [77] To limit the jurisdictions in civil cases to the
                                county or township where one or more of the parties liable to
                                judgment and execution resides.

                            By Mr. MARCH: [78] To provide for oral argument and speedy decision
                                of cases in the Supreme Court. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                             On motion of Mr. CONNER, the order of business was dispensed with,
                                and Senate bills, described on pages -- and 69 of these reports,
                                were read the second time and severally referred as follows:

                            Mr. Anthony's Military bill [S. 28] was taken from the table and
                                referred to the Committee on Military
                                Affairs.

                            Mr. Ferguson's [39] and Mr. Hull's [41] to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.

                            Mr. Conley's [42] to the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts.

                            Mr. Wilson's [44] and Mr. Mellett's [45] to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. Landers' [46,] proposing severe penalties against election
                                frauds, was laid on the table, and 200 copies ordered to be
                                printed.

                            Mr. Landers' [47,] defining the qualifications of voters, being
                                read-

                            Mr. SHIELDS. I move to strike out "sixty days" and insert "thirty
                                days." There is a large number of railroad men residing in my
                                county, and I would like to have no law by which they would be
                                deprived of the right to vote or be virtually disfranchised. I think
                                that thirty days would be sufficient to prevent the evils which have
                                been heretofore practiced in Indiana.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I am as anxious as any man can be to pass laws guarding
                                the ballot box, but I don't think the class of men spoken of by my
                                friend from Jackson, [Mr. Shields,] ought to be specially legislated
                                for. It seems to me men who are residents of one county to-day and
                                another to-morrow, have not that peculiar interests in the affairs
                                of any county that a voter ought to have. I would rather say fifty
                                or sixty days than thirty days.

                            Mr. RAY. It does seem to me there ought to be a distinction made
                                between the qualifications of voters at township elections and
                                voters at State and Presidential elections. There is no great reason
                                why a voter should not be allowed to vote upon thirty or even ten
                                days in township elections, but he should have a longer residence
                                before voting at a State or Presidental election. If the clause
                                referred to did not apply to township elections, I would be willing
                                to vote for the bill.

                            Mr. SHIELDS. I would say that these men who are engaged in managing
                                railroads are not temporary men ; If I understand it they educate
                                their families well, and intend to be permanent citizens; and I
                                would, on behalf of this people, call upon the Senate to provide
                                means by which these men shall not be cut off rom a participation in
                                our government.

                            Mr. LANDERS. If the Senate thinks thirty days are amply sufficient, I
                                am willing to submit to the amendment. My own opinion is that
                                nothing short of sixty days will stop the frauds in the section of
                                country where I live.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I do not know but ten days would do in my portion of
                                the country, but in other portions of the country, I am in favor of
                                sixty days-we ought to have the law sufficiently ample to prevent
                                emigration. If we put it at thirty days, it seems to me the law will
                                not have that effect we desire it shall have. As much interest is
                                taken in local elections usually as in the most important
                                residential election; and for the purpose of having the law acting
                                alike, I am in favor of sixty days.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. I am anxious to have some revision made by which this
                                importation of voters may be stopped, but my opinion is, an attempt
                                to enforce this law will be decided unconstitutional.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN. A large portion of farm laborers live along the
                                township lines ; the revisions of this bill would cut off that large
                                class of voters, and I am satisfied it would be
                                unconstitutional.

                            Mr. CONLEY. I hope the amendment will not be adopted. As regards the
                                    constitutionality of this
                                bill, I am not prepared to say anything but I am disposed to vote
                                for it. I would rather see the residence placed at three months than
                                sixty days. 

                            Mr SHIELDS I will withdraw my motion and put it in a different form.
                                I will move to strike out the word "sixty" wherever it occurs in the
                                bill. 

                            Mr. MARCH. I am willing to go as far as the farthest in order to
                                preserve the purity of he ballot-box. There has been no frauds
                                committed with us of which we complain, and therefore I am willing
                                to conform my actions to the opinion of those who live in the
                                sections where frauds are practiced. But why require sixty days
                                residence in a township? let sixty days be required in the county
                                and ten days in the township. The bill as it stands will cut off
                                those who change their residence in March or February, and will
                                throw the elective franchise into the hands of property-holders. I
                                will not vote to compel a man to reside in a township sixty days
                                before he can vote therein. It is not right and fair.

                            Mr. RAY. In view of the great evils we have suffered, I am willing to
                                encounter all constitutional objections.

                            Mr. SHIELDS withdrew his motion to amend.

                            Mr. MARCH offered an amendment requiring sixty days residence in the
                                county and ten days residence in the township, ward or precinct
                                where the voter desires to vote.

                            Mr. LANDERS would be willing to accept the amendment.

                            Mr. WAGNER. By that amendment, men who move their families from one
                                county to another on the first day of March can not vote at the
                                April election. I will not vote to cut out such voters. One-fourth
                                of my constituents are made up of that class of men. I am in favor
                                of a law which would require absolute residence, but I can vote for
                                no bill which will disfranchise so many of my constituents.

                            Mr. JOHNSON moved that the bill and pending amendments be referred to
                                the Committee on Elections.

                            Mr. CRAVEN made an ineffectual motion to instruct the committee to
                                report two bills on the subject.

                            The motion to refer was agreed to.

                            And then-
                            On motion, the Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                             A message from the House announced the passage of a joint resolution
                                [H. R. 23] requiring State officers to distribute all journals,
                                acts, statutes, reports and other documents authorized under any
                                existing law. 


                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                 The Senate proceeded in the disposition of bills-described on
                                    pages -- and 69 of these reports>on their second reading,
                                    referring them as follows:

                                Messrs. Cravens's [43,] O'Brien's [50,] and Ray's [59,] to the
                                        Committee on Corporations.

                                Messrs. Newcomb's [49,] Turner's [56,] Wolfe's [57,] and
                                    Bobbins's [60,] were ordered engrossed for a third reading.

                                Messrs. Murray's [51 and 63,] and Mr. Wagner's [66] (without
                                    reading-acting upon the suspension of the rules made yesterday,
                                    when this bill was read the first time by title only,) to the
                                        Committee on Education.

                                Messrs. Claypool's [52,] Line's [54,] Shields's [62,] Craven's
                                    [64,] Shoemaker's [65,] Newcomb's [58 and 59] (read by title
                                    only, under a suspension of the rules yesterday afternoon,) to
                                    the Judiciary Committee.

                                Messrs. Conley's [55] and Shoemaker's [58] to the
                                        Committee on Finance.

                                Messrs. Miller's ]53] and Murray's [61] to the Committee
                                        on County and Township Business.

                                Mr. Blair's [67] to the Committee on
                                    Claims.

                                Mr. TURNER, by leave, introduced a bill [S. 79] to amend section
                                    4 of the game law approved February 26, 1857, so as to make it
                                    unlawful to kill prairie chickens between the first of February
                                    and September in each year, instead of January and August, as
                                    the law now provides. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE STATE AUDITOR'S REPORT.
                                 Mr. WAGNER. In the Auditor's report I find several
                                    appropriations made by the last Legislature are overdrawn, and
                                    on our statute books I find a law prohibiting the Auditor from
                                    drawing after appropriations have been exhausted. As one of the
                                    committee having to look to these matters, I would like to test
                                    the sense of the Senate upon the propriety of the course of
                                    canelling these amounts and vouchers which have been drawn out
                                    over and above the appropriations by the Legislature. If we can
                                    not have our officers of State to abide by law, we need no
                                    legislature, and had better allow the State officers to use
                                    monies as they please. I earnestly protest against it and hope
                                    the men that overdraws again may go to breaking rocks in the
                                    penitentiary, where they should go for violating their
                                    obligations. If the appropriations had not been overdrawn, we
                                    would have had over $200,000 in the treasury to-day, while we
                                    have nothing, and the Governor, in a message to the House,
                                    recommending a loan.

                                Mr. JONES. If I recollect right, the law providing for extra
                                    sessions of the Circuit Courts had a provision to this effect,
                                    that the State Auditor should pay for those services out of any
                                    moneys not otherwise appropriated; and I think it is under this
                                    law that the State officers have acted, and charged under the
                                    heads of "Judiciary" and "Prosecuting Attorneys."

                                Mr. MARCH. I hope the Committee on Finance
                                    will not allow for warrants drawn to pay for these special terms
                                    of courts, for the law is a nullity.

                                

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL offered a resolution directing the Finance
                                        Committee to inquire into and report all warrants
                                    drawn on the treasury in violation of law.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL. I do not know, myself, whether any warrants have
                                    been unlawfully drawn, but intimations of that kind have been
                                    made. If it is so, I would deal with overdrawn warrants as I
                                    would deal with forged drafts.

                                Mr. RAY. The course of this discussion is well calculated to
                                    reflect upon the official integrity of the Auditor of State. The
                                    specifications are that he has drawn largely beyond the
                                    appropriations for the Judicial department. The law is as stated
                                    by the Senator from Bartholomew [Mr. Jones.] Senators ought to
                                    be careful, it seems to me, how charges are made and severely
                                    commented upon without some basis for the remarks. It seems to
                                    me that nothing short of official delinquency should call for
                                    this kind of animadversions on the official conduct of any
                                    gentle man.

                                Mr. WAGNER. The Auditor has overdrawn largely on most of the
                                    appropriations. I don't pretend to say he has done any moral
                                    wrong, but that he has not complied with the strict letter of
                                    the law, and does not deny it.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB reviewed the Auditor's report at some length, and
                                    said: We have a set of legislators outside of these halls who
                                    undertake to appropriate monies belonging to the State without
                                    the proper authority, and we have got to stop this way of doing
                                    business, or we will have no treasure. I will vote to make an
                                    example of the present officers, and let them get out of the
                                    difficulty the best way they can, or for a law imposing some
                                    strong penalties on the incoming officers. I think with the
                                    Senator from Warren [Mr. Wagner,] we may as well abolish the
                                    Legislature as to let this thing go on.

                                Mr. RAY. The misapprehension all grows out of a misconstruction
                                    of the law of 1859. * * * * I desire gentlemen to understand
                                    that I do not appear here as an advocate of a loose system of
                                    drawing upon the treasury.

                                Mr. ROBINSON. I had thought the amendments were made two years
                                    ago to put officers on their guard against drawing moneys
                                    unauthorized by law. There was just such a squabble in this
                                    Chamber two years ago, and I thought an overdraw of the people's
                                    money would not be recognized hereafter. I was then for putting
                                    a check once for all upon this waste of-the public treasure. Mr.
                                    R. cited the overdraw in the case of the northern state prison,
                                    reflecting severely thereon at some length, and closed by
                                    saying: With these remarks, I think you will find I am ready to
                                    "cut these things off at the knees."

                                Messrs. Newcomb, Ray and Wagner made some further remarks upon
                                    the subject.

                                Mr. STEELE cited a direct enactment prohibiting the State Auditor
                                    from drawing money unless there be a fund upon which to
                                    draw.

                                The resolution was then adopted.

                                On the motion of Mr. CONNER, Mr. Claypool was added to the
                                        Committee on Finance.

                                Mr. SHOULDERS presented a petition from Dubois county praying for
                                    the repeal of the new county acts of 1857 and 1859, which was
                                    read and referred to the special committee on new counties and
                                    county lines.

                                Mr. CONLEY introduced a bill [S. 80] to repeal an act for the
                                    protection of wild game &c., approved February 26, 1857,
                                    which was passed the first reading without objection.

                                And then-

                                On motion, the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, January 24,1861.
                        

                         On motion by Mr. LANE, the reading of the journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with. 

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                             By Mr. MOODY: the petition of citizens of Newton county with refence
                                to the location of the county seat of said county, asking for law to
                                authorize a location under certain exemptions ; which was referred
                                to the Committee on County and Township
                                Business.

                            By Mr. CRAIN: the petition of J. D. Price, others, citizens of Parke,
                                against the new county act of 1857 and '59; which took the same
                                reference.

                            By Mr. WOODHULL: the petition of Alex. P. Vancleve, and other
                                citizens of Steuben county, for the abolition of the county treasury
                                system, and to authorize township receivers of the public moneys;
                                which took the same reference.

                            By Mr. BLACK: the petition of Chas. Cox, and others, citizens of the
                                county of Dubois and Orange, for a change of the division line
                                between said counties which was also referred to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.

                            By Mr. BUNDY : the memorial of Andrew J. Gray, of Dearborn county,
                                for relief for expenses incurred in the capture of a fugitive from
                                justice, which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Claims.

                            By Mr. WOODRUFF, the petition of citizens of the State, asking for
                                amendment of the wild game law to protect quails and pheasants,
                                which was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.
                            [A Senate message anounced bills and joint resolutions passed in that
                                body.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE PRESIDENT ELECT WILL VISIT THE
                                LEGISLATURE.
                             Mr. CAMERON, from the joint Committee, to wait upon the President
                                elect of the United States, and invite him to visit the Legislature
                                on his way to Washington City, reported that they had performed that
                                duty, and had received his answer, that he would visit the
                                Legislature some time be 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, JAN. 30, 1861
                        No. 7
                    

                    
                        

                        
                             
                             tween the 5th and 15th of February, and that he will communicate and
                                let us know the certain time soon. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.
                            Mr. STOTSENBERG submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing
                                the Committee on Ways and Means to inquire into
                                the expediency of providing some compensation to justices of the
                                Peace for services on the trial Of criminal causes.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams: directing the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business, to inquire into the expediency of
                                expanding the road tax in the district where collected.

                            Mr. FISHER: that the Committee on Agriculture
                                inquire into the expediency of requiring the keepers of stallions to
                                procure a license; the money so received to be for the benefit of
                                Agricultural Societies.

                            Mr. McLEAN : directing the Committee on Canals to
                                inquire into the expediency of reducing the salary of the Canal
                                Commissioner.

                            Mr. PROSSER: requesting the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business to inquire into the expediency of remodeling
                                the assessors' net so as to require the township assessors to meet
                                the treasurer at a given time, and receive their lists.

                            Mr. UNDERWOOD : that the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business inquire into the expediency of providing that
                                all moneys coming into the hands of supervisors for Road purposes,
                                shall be expanded by selling out the work to the lowest bidder.

                            Mr. RANDALL: that the Committee on Education
                                inquire into the expediency of so amending the laws as to make the
                                school districts bodies corporate, and take the management of the
                                schools out of the hands of the township trustees.

                            Mr. ROBERTS: that the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business inquire into the expediency of requiring the
                                county surveyors to re-survey the original section lines, and
                                re-establish the original monuments; and if they deem it expedient,
                                report a bill limiting the time for such surveys to four years.

                            Mr. WELLS : that the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts inquire into the expediency of making it the
                                duty of justices of the peace to hear evidence and try suits in the
                                absence of the plaintiff.

                            Mr. POLK : that the Committee on the Judiciary
                                inquire and inform the House whether a law requiring a specified
                                period of residence in the townships, in order to constitute a
                                voter, would be constitutional.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS: That the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business inquire into the expediency of amending the
                                law relative to the construction of bridges over streams-dividing
                                counties so as to make the charges just and equal to both
                                counties.

                            Mr. POLK submitted a joint resolution,[22j for amendment of the
                                second section of the second article of the Constitution so as to
                                require of white male citizens a residence of six months in the
                                State and sixty days in the township, and of every man of foreign
                                birth, a declaration and one year in the State and sixty days in the
                                township to entitle him to vote, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. MOODY submitted, a joint resolution [23] directing the Auditor
                                and Secretary of State to distribute all journals, acts, reports and
                                documents to the new county of Newton and all other new counties,
                                which was passed the House of Representatives. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.
                            By Mr. McLEAN : [94] Touching the salaries of common pleas judges,
                                and apportioning the payment of the same among the various counties
                                of the State.

                            By Mr. HURD: [95] Nor the protection of ' the people against the
                                incompetency of pretended physicians and surgeons,the establishment
                                of a board' of examiners prescribing their duties, &c.

                            By Mr. ATKISSON: [96] To repeal sections 2, 3, 4, and 5, of the act
                                regulating the working of highways on county lines,' approved March
                                3, 1859.

                            By Mr. HENRICKS: [97] To amend sections 6 and 7 of the act regulating
                                the granting of decrees of divorcement, approved March ]3, 1852, and
                                repeal all laws in conflict therewith.

                            By Mr. ATKISSON: [98] To amend section 3 of act requiring the
                                surviving partner to file an inventory and appraisement of the
                                effects of the firm in the court of common pleas, and also a list of
                                the liabilities, approved March 5, 1859.

                            By Mr. BRUCKER: [99] To amend the  act providing for the safe-keeping of the public moneys.

                            By Mr. BLACK: [100] To authorize township trustees to sign
                                certificates of purchases of saline lands which were purchased with
                                school funds by the inhabitants of school districts for school house
                                sites.

                            By Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe: [101] To repeal two sections of the act
                                extending the terms of the circuit courts by adjournment, approved
                                Februry 12, 1855, to authorize courts to hold special terms, and to
                                fix the compensation of Judges and prosecutors, approved December
                                24, 1858.

                            Which were severally passed to the second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. Heffren's bill [56] to dispense with the Agent of State, was
                                considered on the second reading, and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Well's bill [57] to amend the act of March 8, 1853, for the
                                relocation of county seats, coming up-

                            Mr. MOODY proposed to amend, by inserting appropriately these words:
                                "The number of legal voters in said county shall be taken and held
                                the same as those polled at the last Congressional election.

                            Mr. Cameron's bill [58] to repeal the act to amend section 42 of the
                                act to establish a Court of Common Pleas, approved may 14, 1853, so
                                as to regulate the docketing and disposal of business therein,
                                approved March ,5 1859, was considered and referred to the Committee
                                or Organization of Courts. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STOCK KILLED BY RAILROADS.
                            Mr. Dobbins's bill [60] providing for a deposit of bonds and
                                securities as a lien for stock killed by railroads, coming up-

                            Mr. DOBBINS proposed to amend, by adding a section, to the effect,
                                that it shall be the duty of the auditor of the county with whom
                                said securities shall be deposited, to make a record thereof, and
                                forward a certified copy of such record to the auditors of all the
                                counties of the State through which said road passes.

                            Mr. D. said he was accused of making war on the railroads. That was
                                not his object in this bill. But he thought the railroads ought to
                                be willing for a law to be enacted to compel them to pay for
                                violations of the rights of property. The people of his county had
                                been imposed upon by them, and they only suspended the expression of
                                their indignation, waiting for the action of this Legislature. He
                                and his people would be perfectly willing to take two-thirds of the
                                value of the property so destroyed, if the roads would pay it. He
                                did not mean to make war on the railroads, but simply to protect
                                private property. He moved that it be referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to strike out the words "Ohio and
                                Mississippi Railroad,'"and insert "all railroad companies having no
                                office in this State."

                            Mr. DOBBINS. It includes that, and mentions the Ohio and Mississippi
                                railroad, because required to deposit in the county of Knox.

                            The bill and proposed amendment were referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. ORR'S bill, [61] defining a school district voter, was considered
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            BANK OF THE STATE.
                            Mr. Veatch's bill [62] for five additional bank districts, coming
                                up-

                            Mr. VEATCH moved that it be referred to the Committee on
                                    Banks.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, moved to lay it on the table, but withdrew
                                for-

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. He proposed to amend Mr. Veatch's motion by adding
                                instruction to the Committee to add to the bill a provision to this
                                effect: "The privilege to establish such additional branches is
                                granted only with the following conditions; that the Presidents and
                                Directors of the Bank of the State and branches shall consent to the
                                repeal of that part of the 15th section of their charter which
                                provides that the capital stock of the bank shall not be taxable for
                                municipal purposes." He hoped, before this action for the
                                establishment of new branches was taken, that we would compel the
                                banks to give back a part of the sovereignty a former Legislature
                                had given to them. By the 15th section of their charter, which was
                                passed over the Governor's veto, it was provided that their capital
                                stock should never be taxed for mucicipal purposes. He did not
                                believe the people of the State desired to have these additional
                                branches established in any city or town, invested as they would be
                                with the incident of a sovereign exemption from taxation. He
                                proposed that these directors should give up this unequal exemption
                                before we give them any new privileges.

                            Mr. NEBEKER did not like the imperative style of the instructions.
                                The bank did not ask further instructions-only the people wanted
                                them.

                            Mr. BUNDY. The Bank did not want this power, but perhaps they might
                                use it in future. He had understood distinctly that they did not
                                want it, and were not asking for it. It was not a bank measure. It
                                was a measure of the inhabitants of certain localities wanting bank
                                facilities.

                            Mr. VEATCH. If the gentleman would look over the map of the State,
                                where the present twenty branches of the State are located, he would
                                see that along the river border there was a strip of 200 miles, and
                                more than 70 miles wide, where there was not a single branch; whilst
                                in the North part of the State they were located within a day's
                                walk, almost within a stone's throw of each other. In the  gentleman's own district there
                                were two branches but a few miles apart. But in all the down-river,
                                producing and shipping district, there was not a single branch for
                                their accommodation. Why deprive them of a privilege because of bad
                                legislation in the past? 

                            Mr. OWENS. In his section of the country here was not a branch for
                                sixty miles round. He panted an equal chance.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. If the reasoning of the gentleman from Spencer and the
                                gentleman from Sullivan were correct, we ought to have branches in
                                every county and township in the State, for we have men engaged in
                                trade everywhere. He agreed with Mr. Stotsenberg that under the
                                present charter, it was wrong to increase the power of the Bank. It
                                were better, perhaps, to make a more equal distribution of the
                                present branches than to increase their number. He had also another
                                objection to increasing its power. The charter of the Bank was not
                                sufficiently guarded with reference to the amount of their issues in
                                proportion to the specie in their vaults. It might continue to be a
                                good and safe institution as long as & remained in the
                                management of the present directors; but he would not increase its
                                powers.

                            Mr. VEATCH. How would the gentleman distribute the present branches ? 

                            Mr. DOBBINS supposed it could be done by the same authority that
                                might locate new branches.

                            Mr. VEATCH supposed not.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG did not want to deprive any people of what gentlemen
                                call the benefits of a bank. He believed it would be better not to
                                establish any more branches. But if this was to be done, he wanted
                                his constituents and others to have in it the opportunity to correct
                                some of the past bad legislation, (so the gentleman called it,) in
                                the bank charter. The former legislation had voted away one of the
                                dearest rights of Americans-the sovereign right of taxation. They
                                were exempt from taxation. He was not disposed to injure the Bank,
                                but to provide that the means of this mammoth corporation shall pay
                                taxes, just as the property of other men. We had it now in our power
                                to withdraw this exemption, which had been obtained by legerdemain.
                                Now was the time to get it back. The people of his city were taxed
                                in every department and class of their property, while the branch
                                located there was exempt. This was a bad provision ; then let us
                                protect five more cities from the effects of this bad legislation.
                                He knew that his people wanted to see this step of reform-wanted
                                this power taken away from the Bank. He admitted we could not take
                                it back without the consent of the Bank.

                            Mr. VEATCH. What did the gentleman propose? He says he has no
                                objection to granting these privileges to those portions of the
                                State desiring them. He knows that no amendment can be made to the
                                Bank charter without the consent of the Bank. Yet he proposes an
                                amendment, the effect of which would be to deprive us of these
                                branches. We can not have banks without the people want them,
                                because the people must take the stock. The Bank would never locate
                                a branch where the people do not want it. Then, if our people
                                desired a branch, where was the gentleman's doctrine of popular
                                sovereignty, when he says we shall not have it ? It did not
                                interfere with him, and he knows he can not strike off this power
                                from the Bank, because they will not consent to it. We were simply
                                asking, not that further burthens be laid on the gentleman from
                                Floyd-but for the privilege of; branch banks where there is no bank,
                                if the people desire them and the Bank will grant them. If
                                satisfactory to our people, why should he complain ? It was a matter
                                of deep interest to our people and their representatives on this
                                floor. How could he be affected by it, or his constituents ? It
                                would not make the matter better or worse for them. It would grant
                                us a privilege, and do him no harm. It was doubtful, in these times,
                                whether the Bank would grant any more branches. If the gentleman
                                would put his instructions into the form of an inquiry, he would
                                vote for them.

                            Mr. PROSSER referred to the outside pressure which was brought to
                                bear for the passage of the charter of this Bank. That charter was
                                most corruptly obtained, and he hoped the House would remember this,
                                and restrain its power, as they might be able to do so, till they
                                could put their foot on the monster. He did not recognize the
                                advantages assumed for a bank location. He had himself once
                                introduced a bill repealing this 15th section.

                            Mr. DOBBINS proposed to amend further, by adding a section to the
                                effect, that " said Bank shall surrender any right to take a greater
                                rate of interest than six per cent, and to use more than one-third
                                of its capital stock in bills of exchange; the balance to be used in
                                the regular discount line," &c.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. The argument of the gentleman from Spencer amounted to
                                nothing. He would not vote for the bill unless they would remove the
                                odious features of their charter. He showed the inequality of
                                taxation in favor of the Bank. It did not pay tax at all as a
                                corporation, but the stochholders as individuals.

                            Mr. McLEAN. Did the gentleman remember that the measure was obnoxious
                                to the Bank ?

                            Mr. GRESHAM did not care; he would not give them more power, under
                                the circumstances.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, moved to lay the bill and amendments on
                                the table; and the yeas and nays being demanded and taken thereon,
                                the motion was lost-yeas 40, nays 49.

                            Mr. GRESHAM, explaining his vote, said he voted No, because he wanted
                                to get in amendments. 

                            

                            So the House refused to lay the bill on the table.

                            On motion by Mr. ORR, the further consideration of the subject was
                                postponed, and it was made the special order for Thursday next, at 2
                                o'clock.

                            Mr. Prosser's bill [63] to repeal the act to prevent the carrying of
                                concealed weapons, was considered on the second reading, and
                                referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. Brucker's bill [64;] Mr. Heffren's bill, with Mr. Stotsenberg's
                                amendment [75;] Mr. Atkisson's bill (66;] Mr. Howard's bill [68;]
                                Mr. Wood's bill [71;] Mr. Crane's bill [72,] coming up on their
                                second reading, were referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. Dobbins's bill [69,] changing the law so as to limit the time of
                                notice of process against, railways from 15 to 30 days, was
                                considered and ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. Heffren's bill [65] was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. Folk's bill [67] was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            Mr. Packard's bill [70] was referred to the Committee on
                                    Roads. 


                            
                                FINANCES OF THE STATE.
                                A message from His Excellency, the Governor, was here announced,
                                    and read to the House of Representatives by Mr. Holloway, his
                                    private secretary, with reference to the finances of the State
                                    It stated His Excellency's information that there were but
                                    $5,000 in the Treasury, and the necessity of borrowing $50,000
                                    to provide for the current expenses of the State until the
                                    receipts from taxation can be realized: and in consideration of
                                    the premises, recommends that the Governor, Auditor and
                                    Treasurer be authorized to make a temporary loan to that
                                    amount.

                                On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, it was taken up for consideration.

                                Mr. McLEAN moved that it be referred to the Committee on
                                        Ways and Means.

                                Mr. BRANHAM. This message disclosed an extraordinary state of
                                    things. Why was it that the State was now financially bankrupt?
                                    It was not because the Legislature had not made ample provision
                                    for the ordinary expenses of the State ? He would call attention
                                    to one or two things in relation to the disbursements of our
                                    finances. The Constitution provided that no money shall be drawn
                                    from the Treasury except in pursuance of appropriation made by
                                    law. Ever man in the State taking office, was required to swear
                                    to support the Constitution. In the Treasury bill of 1859, these
                                    would be found this provision, that the Auditor of State shall
                                    at no time draw his warrant on the Treasury, unless there is
                                    money in it to pay the same in conformity with appropriation
                                    made by law. The estimates made that year would show that there
                                    ought to be a balance of now in the Treasury, after paying all
                                    appropriations. The Treasurer's report showed balance in favor
                                    of the Treasury last November, of $134,000. How comes it that
                                    this money was not now in the Treasury ? If you turn to the
                                    Auditor's report, you have the explanation. It was useless to do
                                    anything in this matter, unless we could make a change in the
                                    system of disbursements of the public money. Unless this were
                                    done, we might as well abolish the House of Representatives.

                                Mr. HOLCOMB interrupted, to make a point of order, that the
                                    motion was for reference merely, and did not admit of the range
                                    of debate the gentleman was taking.

                                The SPEAKER. For all the Chair has heard, the gentleman may be
                                    giving his rea. sons for the motion. 

                                Mr. BRANHAM continued. I for one, will never vote to clothe any
                                    officer of this State with power to borrow money, till we shut
                                    the treasury door. So long as you allow the officers of State to
                                    disburse the money in violation of law, I never will vote
                                    another dollar of taxation on the people of the State. I wish
                                    the House to understand my position in reference to this mater.
                                    If the House does not keep within its control the disbursement
                                    of the public funds-it is an outrage to tax the people for money
                                    that the officers may disburse as they please. If the finances
                                    of the State had been well administered you would now have
                                    enough. I say here that the Auditor of State has drawn $71,000
                                    in cases where he had no authority in the world. And this is not
                                    the only item. But if the House propose to let this go on, and
                                    leave the officers to disburse without authority of law, I never
                                    will vote another cent of taxation till it shall be stopped.
                                    ["Consent."] I doubt very much the right to borrow this money as
                                    the message proposes. The constitution says, that no debt shall
                                    be created, unless to meet casual deficits in the revenue and to
                                    pay the interest on the public debt. Is this a casual deficit?
                                    When the Representatives of the people have made appropriations
                                    amply sufficient to meet all expenses, have the officers of
                                    State power to appropriate the public money differently and then
                                    ask the Legislature to borrow? Sir, you never will be any better
                                    off so long as this state of things exist. If you continue this
                                    illegal and unconstitutional system of disbursing the public
                                    money yon will be forever bankrupt. There is not a fund known to
                                    the treasury department that has not been perverted from its
                                    legitimate use and appropated in direct violation of law. Sir,
                                    shall we go on, and borrow, and continue this state of things? I
                                    say again to the House for one, I never will, until there is
                                    some guarantee that this state of things shall stop. If we are
                                    to go on at this rate-if these men are to exercise the right to
                                    make contracts in violation of law-what is the use of the House
                                    of  Representatives? You
                                    had better abolish the General Assembly, to save expenses, and
                                    authorize men to levy and collect taxes and disburse the
                                    revenues as it suits their fancy. It is true that the incoming
                                    officers have no responsibity for this state of things, and I
                                    hope now, if any bill is to be brought in on this subject, there
                                    will be a provision it in it getting every officer of the State
                                    to to breaking stone, if they violate the law.

                                The message was referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                        Means.

                                His Excellency, the Governor, also transmitted to the House
                                    certain joint resolutions of the Legislature of the State of
                                    Virginia, calling delegation of Commissioners of the several
                                    States of the Union, to convene in Washington City, on the 4th
                                    of February, to consider the State of the Union, and submitting
                                    propositions for an adjustment of Federal difficulties, and the
                                    Crittenden amendments of the Constitution of the United States,
                                    with modifications as their basis of pacification.

                                The resolutions were read, and, under the Veatch resolution,
                                    referred to the Committee Of Thirteen.

                                Mr. Brett's bill [74] was referred to the Committee on
                                        Temperance.

                                Mr. Black's bill [76] and Mr. Orr's bill [84] for a conventional
                                    interest, with Mr. Underwood's amendment to strike out all that
                                    relates to a higher rate then six per cent., were referred to
                                    the Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                                Mr. Hopkins' bill [81] was ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. Turner's bill [79] was referred to the Committee on
                                        Benevolent Institutions.

                                Mr. Lee's bill, [78,] and Mr. Williams' [85] were referred to the
                                        Committee on the Judiciary.

                                Mr. Jones's (election) bill [80] was referred to the
                                        Committee on Elections.

                                Mr. Heffren's bill [83] waa referred to the Committee on
                                        Education.

                                Mr. Moss' bill [86] was referred to the Committee on the
                                        Organization of Courts.

                                The House then adjourned. 

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.

                        
                            FRIDAY, January 25, 1861.
                        

                        Mr. DICKINSON presented a petition from ninety odd citizens of Cass
                            county, praying for the passage of a law to protect sheep from dogs;
                            which was read and referred to the Committee on
                                Agriculture.

                        Mr. ROBINSON presented a series of resolutions, adopted by a Union
                            meeting, held at Vevay, Switzerland county, on the 8th inst. He stated
                            that he only obtained them through the columns of the paper published in
                            that place, but took pleasure in presenting them. The meeting was
                            attended by about a thousand voters. The resolutions were read and
                            referred to the Committee on Federal Relations. 

                        
                            ABOLISHING GRAND JURIES.
                            Mr. CONLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Organization of Courts to
                                inquire into the expediency of abolishing the Grand Jury system,
                                &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MARRIAGE LICENSES.
                            Mr. STONE offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on County and Township Business to
                                inquire into the expediency of so changing the law in reference to
                                the issuing of marriage licenses, as to make it part of the duties
                                of the recorder. 
                        
                        

                        
                            QUALIFICATION OF VOTERS FOR SCHOOL
                                DIRECTORS.
                            Mr. SHOULDERS offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting the
                                    Committee on Education to inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the school law, so as to prevent persons from
                                voting for school directors who have no children to send to school.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            SURETIES.
                             Mr. WILSON offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                instructing the Judiciary Committee to inquire
                                into the expediency of making reconnoisance for surety a lien upon
                                surety, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SALARIES OF COUNTY OFFICERS.
                            Mr. GRUBB offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business to inquire into the expediency of fixing by
                                law the salaries of county auditors, treasurers, clerks and
                                sheriffs, according to population. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ADVANCE OPINIONS OF THE SUPREME COURT.
                            Mr. NEWCOMB offered a resolution that the Judges of the Supreme Court
                                be requested to examine any bills designed to prevent frauds in
                                elections, which may be submitted to them by the Senate or the
                                    Committee on Elections, &c.

                            Mr. MILLER offered an amendment, including bills relative to the
                                Common School law, referred to the Committee on
                                    Education.

                            Mr. CONNER desired to change the reference of the resolution to the
                                Attorney General.

                            Mr. RAY objected to the resolution; he would prefer referring these
                                matters to the Attorney General.

                            Mr. BEESON proposed an amendment to the amendment, so as to include
                                the question whether specific tax on dogs is in accordance with the
                                Constitution; which he subsequently withdrew.

                            Mr. MARCH was opposed to the principle endeavored to be inaugurated
                                by the resolution, because it would confound one department of the
                                government with another.

                            Mr. JOHNSON was in favor of keeping the governmental departments
                                separate.

                            Mr. MILLER. It is immaterial whether the resolution prevails or not.
                                But here are constitutional questions raised, and it is not so much
                                what the constitution is as to what the  Supreme Court may declare it to be. It
                                seemed to him much time and trouble might be saved by getting an
                                advance opinion.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. It is a simple request; if the judges do not see proper
                                to accede that is the end of it. It is no new thing under the sun.
                                No question can come up on the school law which has not already been
                                decided.

                            After short remarks by Messrs. Claypool, Landers and Shields-

                            Mr. LANDERS moved to amend by including all other bills before the
                                Senate.

                            On motion by Mr. JOHNSON the resolution and amendments were laid on
                                the table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXTRA EXPENSES OF THE AGRICULTURAL BOARD.
                            Mr. ROBINSON offered a resolution which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Agriculture to ascertain the
                                amount of moneys paid by the State Board of Agriculture for extra
                                services, c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            HOUSE OF REFUGE FOR JUVENILES.
                            Mr. DICKINSON, offered a resolution which was adopted authorizing the
                                appointment of a select committee of five to which so much of the
                                Governor's Massage as relates to a House of Refuge for juvenile
                                offenders shall be referred. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and passed to the second reading
                                without objection :

                            By Mr. JOHNSON: [81] To amend section 51 of the misdemeanor act so as
                                to prevent prosecution for taking ten per cent, interest.

                            By Mr. JOHNSON: [82] To repeal the act amending section 143 of the
                                assessment act.

                            By Mr. WAGNER: [83] Assessing tax for common school purposes,
                                &c.

                            By Mr. WAGNER : [84] To amend section 2 of the new county act of '57;
                                so that all citizens of a county proposed to be changed shall vote
                                upon the question.

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN : [85] To legalize the assessment and appraisement of
                                property in the cities of this State and the making out and
                                deliveries of tax duplicates in the cities of this State, in certain
                                cases. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            The following Senate bills, described in yesterday's proceedings,
                                were read and severally referred:

                            Mr. Newcomb's [70] to a select committee consisting of Senators
                                Steele, Newcomb and Craven.

                            Messrs. Wagner's [71] and O'Brien's [76] to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.

                            Messrs. Lomax's [73] and Conley's [80] to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            Mr. Wilson's [75] to the Committee on
                                Education.

                            Messrs. Jones's [77] and March's [78] to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. Turner's [79] ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ABOLISHING THE COMMON PLEAS COURT
                            Mr. CONLEY offered a resolution directing the Committee on
                                    Organization of Courts to inquire into the expediency
                                of abolishing courts of common pleas ; establishing gate system for
                                the settlement of estates, &c.

                            Mr. RAY moved to amend by providing for transferring the civil
                                jurisdiction of the common pleas court to the circuit court;
                                re-districting the State for that purpose, &c.

                            Mr. CONLEY accepted the amendment.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            And then-

                            The Senate took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The New York and Ohio resolutions in relation to the troubles and
                                dissentions afflicting the nation, transmitted to the Senate by the
                                Governor, on the 21st inst., were read and referred to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations. [The New York
                                resolutions are identical with those introduced in the House by Mr.
                                Roberts and printed on pages 46 and 47 of these Reports.]

                            The House resolution authorizing a joint committee on apportionment;
                                and a House message asking the return of a paper hereto, fore
                                transmitted to the Senate were taken up and concurred in.

                            The joint resolution [H. R. 23] authorizing the Auditor and Secretary
                                of State to distribute to new counties their share of the journals,
                                acts, statutes, reports, and other documents, was taken up and
                                passed by yeas 34, nays 0. 


                            
                                RELIEF TO SOLDIERS OF 1812.
                                The joint resolution [H. R. 7]-described on page 37 of these
                                    Reports-requesting Congressmen to use their best endeavors to
                                    secure the passage of a law giving further aid to the soldiers
                                    of the war of 1812 or their widows, was taken up and passed by
                                    yeas 34, nays 0. 
                            
                            

                            
                                A HOMESTEAD FOR ACTUAL SETTLERS.
                                The joint resolution [H. R. 8]-described on page 37 of these
                                    Reports-requesting Congressmen to take such action as will tend
                                    to secure to actual settlers on the public lands a homestead of
                                    160 acres, was taken up.

                                On motion by Mr. CONLEY the resolution was amended by adding the
                                    word " white" before the word " settler."

                                The resolution passed by yeas 34, nays 0. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NAVIGATION OF THE MISSISSIPPI RIVER.
                                The joint resolution [H. R. 11]-described on page - of these
                                    Reports-referring to the navigation of the Mississippi river,
                                    was taken up, read, and referred to the Committee on
                                        Federal Relations.

                                [Mr. CONLEY presented the proceedings of a Union meeting held at
                                    Gosport, Owen county, on the 19th inst., which were read and
                                    referred to the Committee on Federal
                                        Relations.] 
                            
                            

                            

                            
                                BASIS OF INDIANA BANKS.
                                Mr. CLAYPOOL introduced a bill [S. 86] to and sections 4, 6, and
                                    7 of the general banking law, approved March 3, 1855; [amending
                                    section 4 so as to allow the Bank-to issue one fifth of her
                                    circulation in bills-under five dollars and amending sections 6
                                    and 7 so as to make nothing but Indiana bonds as a basis for
                                    free banking, and requiring these banks now doing business on
                                    stock of other States to deposit Indiana bonds in lieu thereof
                                    on or before January 1, 1863] which was passed the first reading
                                    without objection.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL explained the object of his bill as above recited,
                                    and moved to suspend the rules in order that the bill might be
                                    read the second time, by title only, and be referred to the
                                    appropriate committee.

                                Mr. STEELE. I hope the motion will prevail, for I look upon this
                                    bill as one of great importance. A change in our banking law is
                                    absolutely necessary. I introduced in the other branch of the
                                    Legislature, some four years ago, a bill with the same
                                    provisions as this one, but it was not thought important at that
                                    time. With banks predicated upon Indiana stocks there has been
                                    no difficulty, and there can be none, because each individual in
                                    the State is interested in. the payment of her stocks. For
                                    instance, when I was sent by the board of directors of the bank
                                    I have some connection with at home, to buy stocks several years
                                    ago, some of them were in favor of buying Virginia and other
                                    State stocks, while I took the ground that I would not buy any
                                    but Indiana. What are the results? I found gentlemen at that
                                    time buying Missouri's, and I argued with them in this way:
                                    Missouri is nineteen millions in debt, and they have passed an
                                    act authorizing a loan of ten millions; now if Indiana
                                    repudiated at sixteen millions, where does Missouri go, which is
                                    not worth half as much as Indiana?

                                Mr. WAGNER (interrupting.) Does the gentleman say Indiana has
                                    ever been repudiated?

                                Mr. STEELE. I say she refused to pay the interest on her debt for
                                    four years, and I call that repudiation. Missouri is now in debt
                                    over thirty millions. The great difficulty with Illinois money
                                    is that almost the entire banking circulation is predicated upon
                                    Missouri bonds. * * * The five per cent, bonds of Indiana to-day
                                    stand higher than any other six per cent, bonds any bank in the
                                    State is predicated upon.

                                The motion was agreed to-yeas 35, nays 0.The bill was read the
                                    second time by title only, and referred to the
                                        Committee on Banks. 
                            
                            

                            
                                SWAMP LAND DIFFICULTIES.
                                Mr. SHIELDS introduced a bill [S. 87] for the relief of certain
                                    citizens in Jackson and Washington counties, which was passed
                                    the first reading without objection. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE STATE BORROWING MONEY.
                                A message from the House announced the passage by that body of a
                                    bill, [H. R. 104,] to provide for a deficiency in the State
                                    Treasury by a loan of $75,000 from the Commissioners of the
                                    Sinking Fund; and also Mr. Carnahan's bill [S. 14]-described on
                                    page 25 of these reports-amending section 14 of the decedent
                                    estate act.

                                On motion by Mr. WAGNER the bill [H. R. 104] was taken up, read
                                    the first time, rules suspended-yeas 34, nays 0-read the second
                                    time by title only, and referred to the Committee on
                                        Finance. 
                            
                            

                            
                                DECEDENTS' ESTATES.
                                Mr. MILLER introduced a bill [S. 88,] amending section 62 of the
                                    act approved June 17, 1852, so as to bar all claims not filed
                                    within three years from the date of the first appointment of
                                    executor or administrator, and notice thereof; and section 71,
                                    so as to regulate the disposition and sale of real estate bought
                                    in by administrators or executors upon sales under execution in
                                    favor of the estate, and providing for reperfecting claims of
                                    title in such cases; which was passed the first reading without
                                    objection. 
                            
                            

                            
                                REPLENISHMENT OF THE TREASURY.
                                Mr. CLAYPOOL, from the Finance Committee,
                                    returned yesterday's resolution, inquiring into the expediency
                                    of a bill requiring county treasurers to pay into the State
                                    Treasury what revenue they may have in their hands on the 15th
                                    of February, 1861, with an adverse report thereon.

                                The report was concurred in. 
                            
                            

                            
                                STATIONERY AND POSTAGE FOR MEMBERS, ETC.
                                Mr. WAGNER, from the Finance Committee,
                                    returned Mr. Conley's bill [S. 55]-described on page 69 of these
                                    reports-recommending passage.

                                On motion by Mr. CONLEY the report was concurred in, and the bill
                                    laid on the table.

                                And then-

                                On motion the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            FRIDAY, January 25, 1861.
                        

                        The reading of the journal being dispensed with- 

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. RANDALL presented the petition of W. W. Hartwell, and others,
                                citizens of Noble county, asking for compensation for damages
                                sustained on account of the construction of the Feeder dam at
                                Northport; which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Claims.

                            Mr. FORD presented the petition of S. W. Holmes and others, for an
                                appropriation of $22,000 for draining a dam on the Muscatatack. in
                                Jackson county, to reclaim swamp lands; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Swamp Lands.

                            Mr. GROVER asked and obtained leave of absence for Mr. Roberts for
                                this day. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. ORR, from the Committee on  Rights and Privileges of the
                                    Inhabitants of the State, returned the resolution for
                                a law excluding negroes and mulattoes from the common schools, and
                                excluding them from giving testimony in any cause in which a white
                                person is interested, with the expression of opinion that further
                                legislation on these subjects is unnecessary[see laws of 1853, page
                                60 : 1855, page 161.]

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. HORD, from the same committee, returned Mr. Holcomb's bill [25]
                                to repeal the with amendments; together with sundry wild game laws,
                                with a recommendation that the same be indefinitely postponed. 

                             Mr. FISHER moved that the report be concurred in.

                             Mr. DOBBINS trusted the House would not indefinitely postpone the
                                bill. The wild game law. it was known, was not respected in the
                                south part of the State; and the author of the bill not being
                                present, he moved to lay the report on the table.

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            Mr, LEE, from the same committee, returned Mr. Atkisson's bill [49]
                                to prevent hogs running at large without a ring in the nose, with a
                                recommendation that the same be indefinitely postponed.

                            The report was concurrred in.

                            Mr. HORD, from the same Committee, returned the petition of sundry
                                citizens of Orange county, asking for a repeal of the new county act
                                of 1857, and amendments thereto, with a recommendation that it lie
                                on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. PROSSER, from the same Committee, returned the resolution for
                                regulating the width of wagons, reporting legislation
                                inexpedient.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. PROSSER, from the same Committee on the same subject, returned
                                Mr. Cameron's bill, [26] and Mr. McClurg's bill, [40] together with
                                resolutions to amend the 3d and 4th sections of the wild game law,
                                and in lieu thereof, reported a new bill, [102] to amend the 3d and
                                4th sections of said law of February 26, 1857-[changing the time of
                                protection of quails and pheasants from the "1st of January to the
                                1st of October," to from "1st of March to the 1st of October;" and
                                changing the time for the protection of prairie hens from the "1st
                                of January to the 1st of August," to from the "1st of March to the
                                1st of October." 

                            The bill was passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. ORR, from the same Committee, returned the resolution for
                                excluding negroes and mulattoes from the schools, and reported
                                legislation unnecessary, with a reference to the act of 1855. p.
                                161, sec. 1.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. GROVER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned the resolution for amendment of the
                                law relative to the construction of bridges over streams of water
                                dividing counties, so as to make the tax rest equally on each
                                county, with a new bill, [102] to provide for the erection and pair
                                of bridges over streams forming the boundary line between two
                                counties; to repeal a portion of the act of 1855, and the 4th
                                section of the act of May 12, 1852, on this subject.

                            The bill was passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. PROSSER, from the same Committee reported back Mr. Nebeker's
                                bill, [39] to authorize the formation of new counties, &c., with
                                amendments; together with sundry petitions on the same subject,
                                recommending that the petitions lie on the table, that the bill with
                                the proposed amendments, pass.


                            Mr. NEBEKER moved that the House concur in the amendments and that
                                the bill be ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. FRASIER stated that the amendments proposed by the Committee,
                                were merely verbal, with one exception, and he supposed that was a
                                clerical error in the bill. It was to strike out the word "smallest'
                                and insert the word "largest" in the case of the provision that the
                                new county shall remain for representative and judicial purposes,
                                attached to that county from which the "largest" portion was taken. 

                            Mr. FISHER proposed further to amend the bill, by adding a section to
                                the effect, " That all proceedings that may have been commenced
                                heretofore for the formation of new counties be continued and
                                finally settled under the laws now in force and according to the
                                provisions thereof." 

                             Mr. HENRICKS moved to lay the amendment on the table.

                            Mr DOBBINS-to lay the bill and all the amendments on the table.

                            Mr. McLEAN demanded a division of the question.

                            And, thereupon, the amendments were severally laid on the table,
                                without a division, and the bill was tabled by yeas 47, mays 42.

                            Mr. PROSSER moved to reconsider this vote. This bill would repeal an
                                act which was got through the Legislature at the last session either
                                by mistake or fraud. He gave incidents to show this. That act gave
                                the people of three or for counties cornering together (if there be
                                200 square miles) the right to form a new county without the consent
                                of the balance of the people of said counties. He showed how this
                                would operate injuriously, as in cases where counties have
                                subscribed railroad stock. He hoped this bill would not be laid on
                                the table. He was satisfied that the House was voting with no proper
                                understanding of the vote it was giving, and hence he had voted
                                affirmatively that he might move its re-consideration. The present
                                law was passed by the last General Assembly either by fraud, or by
                                mistake as to the character of its provisions. It allows the
                                formation of a new county of 200 square miles, and gives the right
                                to the inhabitants in it to separate themselves  from the counties to which it had been
                                attached, without their consent. Thus, a mere majority in such
                                territory may declare that a new county shall be created. As an
                                instance f the gross injustice which such a law may lead to, he
                                would refer to the county of Montgomery. It has contracted a debt of
                                $100,000 for the building of a railroad, and under the present law,
                                a portion of its citizens may relieve themselves from any liability,
                                without the consent of the rest of the county. A law, thus
                                interfering with important existing obligations should not remain in
                                force.

                            Mr. LANE said that the bill before the House so changed the law that
                                the question of a new comity was referred to the people of the whole
                                county. The character of the law as it now is has been shown by the
                                situation in which Montgomery county may be placed, and it exhibits
                                a kind of secession, not unlike that at Cannelton, where it is
                                proposed to change the course of the Ohio river, sc that the county
                                of Perry may be attached to the State of Kentucky. The law confers
                                the power upon a majority of one only, of the district out of which
                                the new county is to be made, to form such new county, utterly
                                regardless of the situation in which it may place the old county, or
                                the inconvenience to which it may subject the minority of its own
                                citizens. Thus it is proposed to make a new county from Putnam and
                                Montgomery, requiring citizens of Putnam, living within eight miles
                                of Greencastle, the county seat, to go fifteen miles to the couuty
                                seat of the proposed new county.

                            That the law of last session had been wrongfully parsed, is seen from
                                the fact that but one of its Representatives knew that such an act
                                had been passed. A law of this kind consults the interests of
                                certain localities and individuals only, but disregards the wishes
                                and rights of the masses. Such individuals are untiring in the
                                accomplishment of their purposes, and succeed, because the masses,
                                being unsuspecting, take no steps to prevent what they do not
                                anticipate.

                            Mr. CAMERON remarked that he was satisfied the House did not
                                understand the vote it had just given. The law of the last session
                                is based on secession, and such a principle he resisted in whatever
                                form it presented itself. Thus, under its provisions, Michigan City,
                                having received the location of the new Prison, desired to become a
                                county seat, and for this purpose proposed to form a new county from
                                the territory of Laporte and Porter. But to get even so small a
                                territory as two hundred square miles, it counted as land the
                                overflowed land by the lake in Porter-a territory that could never
                                yield a revenue from taxation, however much it might yield in the
                                shape of fish. Not only this injustice was attempted, hut it would
                                have cut off four railroads from i Porter county. Such is the
                                operation of the law of last session, and the injustice to which it
                                leads. Its principle, as he had already said, was that of
                                secession-one that he despised under all circumstances. Had the
                                members known, therefore, that the vole just given was calculated to
                                retain in force such a law, he knew that the vote would have been
                                very different, and that it would now be reconsidered.

                            Mr. BUNDY explained his course. He had voted to lay the bill on the
                                table, because it made radical changes in the law of last session,
                                and such changes ought not to be made but upon deliberation. The act
                                of last session was wrong. He would oppose any law calculated to
                                create small counties, for there were always discontented spirits
                                desirous of change, and who would not hesitate to increase public
                                expense by the formation of such counties. All the people of the
                                counties had an interest in preventing such increase, and hence the
                                law should refer to the decision of all questions pertaining to the
                                formation of new counties.

                            Mr. CRAIN said that the county he represented, Parke, had 441 square
                                miles, and an attempt had been made to take off the 41 square miles,
                                the Constitution preventing any greater amount from being taken
                                away. No regard was otherwise had to the rights and interests of the
                                old counties, for if that territory had been taken, it would have
                                left that county with seven corners to it. and its school districts
                                disarranged, and other interests affected. It would have increased
                                the expense of the county government also. It would have taken from
                                it a bridge which cost the county 10,000, and given it to those who
                                would not have had to contribute to the erection of others. If the
                                provision of the Constitution, preventing counties from being
                                reduced below 400 square miles, was correct, it was not right to
                                make, by law, counties containing not more than half this amount.
                                The House should well consider its action before it consents that
                                our old county organizations shall be broken up by a law so much
                                calculated to do so. 

                             Mr. COLLINS, of Whitley, could not concur in these views. The law
                                was two fold, part providing for change of boundary lines between
                                the counties, and part referring to the formation of new counties.
                                Adjoining counties were often so situated that it becomes necessary
                                to take a portion from one county and add it to another. Whitley,
                                for instance, was a small county, and Allen a large one, and and a
                                portion of the latter desired to be annexed to Whitley. His county
                                had managed its affairs prudently, but Allen badly, and to escape
                                its heavy taxation made the change desirable. If a proposition to
                                allow such change has to be submitted to the vote of the whole of
                                Allen, it would never receive its assent, and thus a part of the
                                county, not benefitted by the county expenditures, be made to bear
                                their burden. 

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG said he had no local  interest in the vote given. Floyd was
                                a small county, and therefore not to be affected by the law under
                                discussion. He had given his vote to lay the bill on the table,
                                because he was opposed to hasty changes. He approved, too, of the
                                amendment proposed by Mr. Fisher, and although the act of 1859
                                might, have been inconsiderately passed, yet proceedings under its
                                provisions had been commenced in good faith, and such past action
                                ought not to be broken down. It would not be good faith on our part
                                to do this. But he did not desire the bill before the House to be
                                laid on the table: he would prefer to see it referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee, to have the legal
                                questions arising under its provisions, examined.

                            Mr. PACKARD said that when the vote was being taken, he did not
                                understand the question, but had changed his vote. The present law
                                led to oppression. Elkhart county was very greedy to get half of one
                                of the best townships of the counts he represented. But the law, as
                                it now is, may lead to great injustice in .other ways. A new county
                                might be formed under its provisions out of St. Joseph, Marshall and
                                Starke,at Walkerton, where these counties come together, but while
                                the new county would be nearly square, it would leave the old
                                counties in a marred condition. Is it right to thus injure the old
                                counties, without giving them a voice in acts so seriously affecting
                                them ? The bill now before the House is a good one; the present law
                                is oppressive,and he wanted the bill passed.

                            Mr. FISHER remarked that he had no objection to the reconsideration
                                of all the votes that had just been taken. He desired that the bill
                                and all the amendrnsnts might go to the Judiciary
                                    Committee, for it could best con-consider and act upon
                                all the rights which may have accrued under the provisions of the
                                law.

                            Mr. FRASIER thought that the saving clause embraced in the amendment
                                of Mr. Fisher was to keep in force all the past iniquity of the law.
                                It seemed to him very clear that the law had been passed without a
                                proper understanding of its character, for its general effects must
                                be productive of bad results, and these should be at once cut off.
                                The House had been referred to the cases of Allen and Whitley
                                counties, to show the necessity of retaining certain provisions of
                                the law. The remedy for the grievances of the people of Allen is not
                                in breaking away from that county and going to Whitley, but in the
                                election of better officers to manage their county affairs. For
                                their grievances have been occasioned by the corruption and fraud
                                that have prevailed in the management of the county affairs. If the
                                law of last session was passed in bad faith, he could not see how
                                any proceedings under it could be such as the House should protect.
                                If now we refuse to pass this bill, we cannot allow the law to
                                remain unrepealed. As to the squatter sovereignty which is said to
                                bethe principle of this law, he believed it to b under all
                                circumstances, a humbug. 

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, said that he had voted to lay the bill on
                                the table, but he did not understand the true nature of the vote he
                                had given. The county of Bartholomew had been threatened with
                                division under the present law, and he was in favor of having it
                                changed. 

                            Mr. GRESHAM said that the law now in fore needed amendment. It should
                                require the majority of all parties effected by the proposed change
                                to be had. It might be true that little Floyd had no particular
                                interest in the law, bacause it was so small that it could not be
                                constitutionally made less, but still it might like very well to
                                have a township of Harrison county annexed to it.

                            Mr. DOBBINS said that Martin and Daviess counties had a suit now
                                pending about a portion of territory two miles wide and about thirty
                                long, which it was proposed to take from Daviess. This annexation
                                was opposed in the Eastern part of Martin, for if annexed a
                                difficulty would then arise about the removal of the county seat of
                                Martin. The principles of the law are wrong, but still he was
                                unwilling that existing actions under the law should be destroyed
                                without an examination, and hence he had voted to lay the bill on
                                the table, until such examination could be made. He thought that the
                                bill repealed the second section of the law of 1857, and he objected
                                to this. But his main objection to it was that it contained no
                                saving clause under which acts commenced might be completed.

                            Mr. NEWMAN said that in voting to lay the bill on the table, he did
                                so because he did not understand its provisions, and he sought time
                                to examine it. But the discussion upon it had satisfied him that it
                                was right, and that the present law was a bad one. It leads to
                                disorganization of the counties by inviting secession of parts of
                                them, and such a law could not be otherwise than bad.

                            Mr. CASON thought that it should be presumed that the last General
                                Assembly knew what they were doing in the passage of the present
                                law. Various questions were now connected with it, and we ought not,
                                hastily, to destroy it. There were two sides to this, as well as
                                other matters. The opposition to it came from the old counties, and
                                their general interests are opposed to any change, however much
                                demanded by local wants. We ought to inquire whether any invested
                                rights existed. It seems to be presumed that what the people had
                                done under its provisions was fraudulent upon others, but no such
                                presumption should be made. The case of Montgomery county had been
                                referred to, but it had not been fully stated. A railroad tax had
                                been levied there for ten years on all the property of the county,
                                whilst the road passes through a portion only of it. The benefit had
                                resulted chiefly to that portion, yet the burden had to be borne by
                                     those who were very
                                indirectly benefitted. Now a portion of the county, not so
                                benefitted seeks to form a new county, but those benefitted object.
                                Is this right, or has anything been done under the law by them,
                                which may justly be complained of by those now objecting? 

                            Mr. WOODHULL said he was not directly . interested in the provisions
                                of the bill. He was fortunate in coming from a county [Steuben]
                                which, being the center of the world there, was not troubled with
                                dissatisfaction about evils. But the bill had not been explained,
                                and from the reading he could not understand the bearing of its
                                provisions. In future, he would advise gentlemen who were interested
                                in bills to explain them, that all might be prepared to vote.

                            Mr. ATKISSON said that he had voted against the bill because it
                                contained no saving clause to protect actions now commenced under
                                the law.

                            Mr. PROSSER was opposed to recommitting the bill. The House was now
                                ready to vote understandingly. He was opposed to all saving clauses,
                                for they would protect a few who vere engaged in robbing thousands.
                                He was satisfied that the law of last session had been passed by
                                fraud, and he was ready to change it.

                            Mr. EDSON was opposed to the law because he opposed the formation of
                                counties having so small a territory as 200 square miles. The
                                Constitution prohibits the old counties from being reduced below 400
                                square miles, and it must have done so upon the conviction that it
                                was inexpedient to form smaller counties. He thought, then, this
                                provision had reference to future as well as to existing counties.
                                The law, too, leads to a repudiation of debts by a part of the
                                people of the counties.

                            Mr. NEBEKER closed the debate. He desired that the bill he had
                                introduced should be examined. As to the act of 1857, it was so
                                drawn up as to be susceptible of almost any number of constructions.
                                The lawyers had given it three different legal constructions. The
                                late Attorney General thought that under it the counties could
                                exchange territories. The law of last session led to such
                                proceedings that a portion of one county could, against its wishes,
                                be transferred to another county. His own county presented a case of
                                such injustice. Fountain wants to enforce a portion of Warren
                                county, where he resided, to annex to them, and so well known was
                                their hostility to the change, that the county commissioners of
                                Warren would not recive a petition from them on the subject. A suit,
                                by mandamus, is now pending against them, and it was the purpose of
                                this bill to save such proceedings ? As for himself, he wished to
                                have nothing to do with Fountain. He loved Warren all over, and he
                                didn't want to be made to secede from it. To show how gross
                                injustice might be done under the law of the last session, he would
                                ask the member from Allen what could prevent a new county being
                                formed out of 200 square miles, taken out of the center of Allen,
                                with Fort Wayne for its center. Let us suppose such a county to be
                                created, and if the member from Allen wants a name for it, he may
                                call it Nebeker. (Laughter,) In that county centers the railroads
                                for which Allen is so much indebted, yet this new county of Nebeker
                                could not be called upon to contribute a cent towards this
                                indebtedness, All around it, in a most circumlocutory form, is the
                                old county of Allen, oppressed with a railroad debt, and the benefit
                                of the roads taken from it, and enjoyed by those who are made free
                                by the law from any obligation to pay their quota. Do we want a
                                saving clause for such proceedings ? There is a principle of justice
                                here that will carry this bill through the House.

                            The vote was reconsidered.

                            Mr. McCLURG now moved that the bill lay on the table, and that 200
                                copies be printed.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to refer it to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. PROSSER moved to lay the motions to refer and to print on the
                                table.

                            Mr. DOBBINS demanded a division of the question.

                            The House thereupon refused to print, and the bill was referred to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Messrs. Orr, Frasier and Epperson were accorded leave of absence till
                                next week. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A LOAN OF $75,000.
                            Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                to which was referred the special message of His Excellency the
                                Governor, communicated yesterday to the House, reported that the
                                committee had considered the same, and instructed him to report a
                                bill [104,] to provide for a deficiency in the State Treasury, by a
                                loan of $75,000 from the Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, to meet
                                the current expenses of the State, and to provide for and secure the
                                repayment of the same.

                            The bill was passed to the second reading.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication in writing from the
                                President of the Sinking Fund. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                            On motion of Mr. STOTSENBERG, the vote of the House, making the
                                report of the Committee of Thirteen the special
                                order for Tuesday, was reconsidered ; and the said report, was
                                recommitted to the same committee, together with the joint
                                resolutions from the Senate, the resolutions from the Virginia
                                Legislature, and the resolutions of the Terre Haute meeting on the
                                same subject. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, the bill [104] to borrow $75,000 from the
                                Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, was considered and passed  the second reading, under a
                                suspension of the rules and the Constitutional provision.

                            The bill being read by title-

                            Mr. BUNDY moved that the rules and Constitutional provision be again
                                suspended, that the bill may be considered as engrossed and read the
                                third time now.

                            Mr. DOBBINS made the point or order, that the Constitution was againt
                                the motion.

                            The SPEAKER. The bill cannot be read again by its title.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG read the Constitutional provision; and

                            The point was overruled, and the rules suspended.

                            The bill was then read through by the Clerk, and the question being
                                upon its final passage-

                            Mr. BRANHAM. The bill provided for a loan of $75,000, when the
                                Governor had only asked for $50,000. The reason of this was that the
                                warden of the State Prison at Jeffersonville says he must have
                                $18,000 immediately, or the prisoners must be turned out. On
                                consultation with the Governor, he found that His Excellency had not
                                estimated this in the $50,000. The reason why the committee
                                preferred borrowing from the Sinking Fund, was, that it operated
                                only as a temporary suspension of the distribution. The loan,
                                doubtless, could be made from the Bank of the State; but it was
                                known that in these times the banks have all they can do to get
                                along. And the State had already borrowed $25.000 from the Bank of
                                the State, which ought to be paid as soon as possible. These were
                                the considerations that prevailed with the Committee. He was
                                satisfied that the re-payment of the $75,000 would all be met as
                                provided in the bill. He hoped that by Monday we would have a bill
                                reported here that would stop all leaks in the Treasury.

                            Mr. DOBBINS, admitting the urgency, could not vote for this bill,
                                because we have not the constitutional right to touch this fund. It
                                was held in trust for the children of the State, and could not be
                                used for any other purpose.

                            The bill was then passed the third and last reading in the House of
                                Representatives by yeas 56, nays 25.

                            On motion of Mr. EDSON, (the order of business being suspended for
                                the purpose,) the bill from the Senate [S. 14] to amend the 48th
                                section of the act of June 17, 1852, for the settlement of
                                decedents' estates, was taken, up-

                            Mr. E. stated the emergency for its passage, in the fact, that the
                                cabinet of specimens and apparatus of the late Dr. David Dale Owen,
                                of New Harmony, was now advertised to be sold under the existing
                                law, and it was desirable, by the provisions of this bill, to
                                prevent the sacrifices that would result from a forced sale of this
                                rich cabinet, which was worth probably $30,000 or $40,000.

                            The rules and Constitutional provision were suspended, and the bill
                                passed unanimously through the several readings in the House of
                                Representatives.

                            The bill [S. 11] to amend section 151 of the assessment act of June
                                21, 1852, was passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. CAMERON, from the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions, returned Mr. Turner's bill, [79] to
                                provide for the election of Sheriff of the Supreme Court, &c.,
                                and reported a recommendation that the same be referred to the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts.

                             The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. ROBBINS, from the Committee on Public Expenditures, returned the
                                resolution, asking for legislation to correct mistakes in the
                                present law in reference to the distance traveled by sheriffs
                                conveying convicts to the penitentiary, and reported a
                                recommendation that the same be referred to a Select Committee of
                                three.

                            The raport was concurred in; and the Speaker appointed Messrs.
                                Robbins, Edson and Crain to be said Committee.

                            Mr. WOODHULL, from the Select Committee on his bill [36] for the
                                relief of the heirs of Michael O'Brien, returned the same, with a
                                recommendation that it ought to pass.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed for the third reading.

                            Mr. GRESHAM, from the Committee on Military
                                    Affairs, reported a bill [105] for the reorganization
                                of the militia, prescribing the duty of certain officers, &c.,
                                and for the repeal of all existing laws having reference to said
                                militia. [Identical with Mr. Anthony's bill (Senate No. 28.)]

                            It was passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. FORD. As this was a bill of great importance, and fearing members
                                might forget the reading, he would move that the rule be suspended,
                                and the bill read the second time now.

                            The House refused to suspend the rule-yeas 26, nays 52-two-thirds not
                                voting in the affirmative. 


                            
                                RESOLUTIONS.
                                Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, submitted a resolution, that if the
                                    gentleman from Harrison shall introduce another bill during the
                                    present session containing more than 40 pages, it shall be
                                    indefinitely postponed. [Laughter.]

                                The SPEAKER ruled it out of order.

                                Mr. PACKARD submitted an order for $3 worth of postage stamps for
                                    each member $2 in 3 cents and $1 in 1 cents. He said it required
                                    postage to send off those documents, and his stock was
                                    exhausted.

                                The yeas and nays were demanded, and taken on this order-Mr.
                                    Prosser, Mr. Smith, of Bartholomew, Mr. Cameron and others,
                                    explaining that it was too much to expect members to spend their
                                    time here in the State service, pay their own expenses and pay
                                    postage for the public. There were numerous copies of about 40
                                    documents here, valuable and desirable among the people, and it
                                    was bad economy to print them and leave them here
                                    undistributed.

                                The order was rejected-yeas 20, nays 56.

                                 Mr. ROBBINS submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    clerk of the stationary room inform the House whether each has
                                    received his $3 worth of postage stamps under the order of the
                                    House.

                                Leave of absence was obtained for Mr. Howard, Mr. Prosser and
                                    Owens.

                                Mr. EDSON submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                        Committee on the Judiciary inquire into
                                    the legal effect of judgments rendered under existing laws
                                    against executors and administrators upon claims against
                                    decedents' estates, and of the allowance of claims on the
                                    Appearance Docket of the Court of Common Pleas in cases where
                                    estates are insolvent; and whether further legislation is
                                    necessary to protect executors and administrators.

                                Mr. BUNDY'S resolution to so amend the rules that till otherwise
                                    ordered, the adjournment every Saturday shall be at 11 o'clock
                                    a. m., till Monday at 2 o'clock p. m., coming up-

                                Mr. VEATCH and Mr. NEBEKER resisted its adoption, because it was
                                    not likely to have the effect claimed for it, namely, of giving
                                    time for work in the committees.

                                The rule was adopted.

                                Mr. HOLCOMB submitted an order, which was adopted, that the
                                        Judiciary Committee inquire into the
                                    expediency of so amending the present laws that the county
                                    treasurer shall not be required to visit the several precincts
                                    for the purpose of collecting taxes; and that he shall not levy
                                    the ten per centum charges till the 1st of May: also, that
                                    county auditors shall not be required to deliver the tax
                                    duplicate till the first of December.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.

                        
                            SATURDAY, January 26, 1861.
                        

                         Mr. WILSON presented a petition praying for the repeal of the new county
                            acts of 1857 and 1859, which was read and referred to the special
                            committee on that subject. 

                        
                            THE STATE BORROWING MONEY.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Finance,
                                returned the bill [H. No. 104,] to provide for a deficiency in the
                                State Treasury by a loan of $75,000 from the Commissioners of the
                                Sinking Fund; recommending its passage without amendment.

                            The report was concurred in, and the bill read the third time.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I am distinctly and radically opposed to the passage of
                                this bill. In the first place, I am opposed to it upon the principle
                                of economy. The bill provides for borrowing at the rate of seven per
                                cent., while I do know the State can raise the money required by
                                that bill at six per cent, on six months time, from the Bank of the
                                State of Indiana. I am opposed to it on another principle; it
                                provides for borrowing out of a particular fund that has been raised
                                for a particular purpose. I think it bad policy for the State to
                                borrow out of one fund for the replenishing of another, for the
                                reason that very rarely these funds are repaid.

                            Mr. WAGNER. It is perfectly immaterial to me from whence the money
                                comes ; the fact is, we owe money and must have some. The State of
                                Indiana is the custodian of a certain fund, the interest of which is
                                to be appropriated to school purposes, $75,000 of which is now lying
                                in the city, not making one red cent. The only way that money can be
                                used is by loaning to somebody. Now, sir, the committee propose to
                                borrow this money for the State instead of letting it lie idle.

                            Mr. COBB. I never will vote for any bill which authorizes a loan from
                                that fund, because it is like an individual taking money out of one
                                pocket and putting it in another. We ought not to permit this fund
                                to be loaned when there is no way of getting it back. If I recollect
                                right, the State has borrowed from time to time over a million of
                                dollars from that fund, and the children of the State have never
                                received one particle of interest from those loans.

                            Mr. WAGNER. The Legislature of 1859 made provision for that. The
                                interest was calculated up to the first, of July, 1862, for which
                                Indiana officers gave bonds to the Sinking Fund Commissioners.

                            Mr. COBB. I admit the State is always making herself liable, but I am
                                informed that not one cent of interest has ever been paid on these
                                loans. There are gentlemen who oppose the common school fund ; and
                                this is a good way to cripple and break up that system. I move to
                                recommit, with instructions to strike out ''Sinking Fund'' wherever
                                it occurs, and insert "Bank of the State of Indiana."

                            Mr. HAMILTON. As the gentleman has anticipated me. I move to amend
                                the amendment by striking out "seven per cent." and inserting
                                "six."

                            Mr. COBB. I accept the amendment.

                            Mr. LINE. I want to know the necessity of hurrying this bill in such
                                a manner, before I am prepared to vote on it As far as I am
                                concerned, I shall vote against the State borrowing from the school
                                fund.

                            Mr. STONE. I really hate to be called to vote upon this question,
                                from the fact that I do not like to vote against the proposition,
                                seeing its source, and I do not like to vote for it with the present
                                lights I have before me. I would like to have it postponed till
                                Monday afternoon at two o'clock.

                            Mr. JONES. It occurs to my mind that wo can provide for the
                                deficiency in the Treasury without resorting to a loan from any
                                quarter. I am reliably informed that many of the county Treasurers have large portions of
                                the State revenue now in their hands, and it seems to me if the
                                demand was made in a proper manner, that the demand would be
                                responded to and the Treasury relieved. In order to get this matter
                                before the Senate, I have prepared a joint resolution calling upon
                                county Treasurers to send up all moneys belonging to the State on or
                                before the tenth of next month.

                            Mr. TURNER. I am opposed to a postponement. I apprehend it is about
                                as good as the State can do to borrow from the Sinking Fund. The
                                only objection is, it postpones the distribution for three months. I
                                am not particular whether the money is got from that fund at seven
                                per cent, or the Bank at six.

                            After remarks by Messrs. Miller and Wolfe--

                            The consideration of the bill and pending amendments was postponed
                                till Monday two o'clock.

                            [Mr. STEELE offered a resolution, which was rejected by yeas 15, nays
                                23, adjourning over till 2 o'clock Monday.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            JURISDICTION OF JUSTICES.
                            Mr. MARCH, from a majority of the Judiciary
                                    Committee, returned Mr. Claypool's bill [S. 9] to give
                                justices of the peace jurisdiction throughout the county,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.

                            Messrs. Claypool and Miller opposed the committee report, and Messrs.
                                Williams, Campbell, Ray, Conley and Line favored concurrence
                                therein.

                            The report was concurred in by yeas 31, nays 5. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON PLEAS JURIES.
                            Mr. CONNER, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Shoemaker's bill, [S. 65,] introduced day before yesterday, with
                                amendments, recommending passage.

                            The report was concurred in by consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONCERNING NEW TRIALS.
                            Mr. CLAYPOOL, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned his bill [S. 52]-described on page 69 of these reports-with
                                amendments, recommending passage.

                            The report was concurred in by conset.

                        
                        

                        
                            TRANSFER OF DEEDS.
                            Mr. TURNER offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business to inquire into the expediency of doing away
                                with the law requiring the transfer of deeds to come before a
                                recorder.

                            [A resolution was offered, which was laid on the table, granting
                                leave to all Senators desiring it till 2 o'clock Monday.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE JEFFERSONVILLE PENITENTIARY.
                            Mr. ANTHONY offered a resolution directing the Committee on
                                    the State Prison to inquire into matters in
                                controversy between the directors and contrators of the State Prison
                                South, with power to send for persons and papers.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to amend by directing the resolution to the
                                Attorney General and requiring him to institute suit to force
                                parties to comply with their contracts.

                            Mr. MILLER moved to amend the amendment by requiring the Attorney
                                General to report what information he may have upon. the subject
                                before bringing suit.

                            After debate-

                            Mr. ANTHONY made an ineffectual motion to lay the amendments on the
                                table.

                            Mr. MELLETT made an ineffectual motion to refer the matter to the
                                    Judiciary Committee. 

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the resolution and amendments were referred
                                to the Committee on the State Prison. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INTEREST FROM LOANS OF THE SINKING FUND
                            Mr. JOHNSON offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Committee on Education to inquire
                                whether there is a law requiring the interest derived from loans of
                                the Sinking Fund to be distributed among the various counties ; and
                                if not, to so amend the law.

                            [Leave of absence was granted to Mr. Hull till Tuesday, and Mr. Slack
                                for a week.]

                            Mr. JOHNSON offered a resolution which was adopted by consent
                                instructing the Committee on Agriculture to
                                inquire into the expediency of repealing the law requiring assessors
                                to make out statistical lists for information. 
                        
                        

                        
                            DELINQUENT TAXES.
                            Mr. WILLIAMS offered a resolution which was adopted by consent
                                directing the Committee on Finance to inquire
                                into and report a a more effectual remedy for the collection of
                                delinquent taxes upon a basis requiring the county auditor to
                                furnish township trustees with a copy, and making it their duty to
                                collect, &c.

                            A resolution was adopted adjourning till Monday, 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                         HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            SATURDAY, January 26, 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                             Mr. ERWIN presented the petition of Dean, Barns, and others,
                                citizens of Lawrence county, asking for the repeal of the act of
                                1857 to authorize new counties, and the amendments thereto.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House two petitions, (Geo. McClure and
                                others,) for a law to compel railroads to fence, and to pay the
                                value of the stock killed by them:

                            Also, the petition of Levi Johnson and others, citizens of Sullivan
                                county, for repeal of the new county acts of 1857 and 1859: of
                                Zephaniah Hill and others, and John Gardner and others for the same
                                odject:

                            Which petitions were severally referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary
                            

                            .Mr. KENDRICK presented the petition of  Winston P. Noble, enclosing a bill of
                                $50 for music on the occasion of the funeral of Gov. Willard; which
                                was referred to the  Committee on Claims.

                            Mr. WELLS presented the petition of Wm. Anderson and 600 others,
                                citizens of Pike county, asking for amendment of the law of March 2,
                                1855, relative to the re-location of county seats, so that all
                                citizens of the county may have the right of petition in the case:
                                which was referred to the Committee on and Township
                                    Business. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. WOODHULL, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned his bill [7] and reported an amendment by way of
                                substitute, viz :A bill [106] to amend the 13th section of the act
                                defining misdemeanors, and providing punishment therefor, approved
                                Jnne 14, 1852; and recommending that the original bill be hid on the
                                table.

                            The report was concurred in, and the new bill passed to the second
                                reading.

                            He also returned the resolution for reducing the fees of county
                                clerks in the settlement of decedents' estates, and reported the
                                opinion that legislation thereon is inexpedient.

                            Mr. EDSON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the resolution for an opinion as to the effect of a repeal of the
                                present militia law upon those holding commissions under the
                                appointment of the Governor, and reported that upon the repeal of
                                the law, the militia offices created by it would cease; the
                                enactment of another militia law could not authorize the present
                                militia officers to act. But it was the opinion of the Committee
                                that such a law would not affect those militia officers appointed in
                                conformity with the seventh section of the 12th article of the
                                Constitution.

                            Mr. WOODHULL, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned the resolution for amending the law so as to make it the
                                duty of Recorders to issue marriage licenses, instead of clerks,
                                reported further legislation unnecessary.

                            Mr. EDSON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the resolution and the report of the Select Committee thereon, in
                                relation to the purchase of the Statutes of Gavin & Hord, and
                                reported an order, which was adopted, asking that the Doorkeeper
                                purchase 10 copies of the first volume for the use of the Standing
                                Committees, and one copy of the proof sheets of the second
                                volume.

                            Mr. CASON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the resolution for inquiry into the expediency of abolishing the
                                Common Pleas Court, and reported-legislation inexedient.

                            These reports were concurred in.

                            Mr. EDSON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the resolution for the pay of officers and witnesses in all criminal
                                prosecutions whether the State sustains the action or not reporting
                                that further legislation in the matter is inexpedient.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Newman's bill [41] to amend the 12th section of the act
                                of June 12, 1852, to authorize levees and drains, witha report
                                recommending its passage.

                            Mr. V. stated that the only change proposed n the existing law was,
                                to take away from the trustees the power of appointing appraisers. 

                             Mr. NEWMAN. The law, as it now stands, allows such companies to
                                elect directors or trustees. These trustees have the power to
                                appoint three appraisers. This gives opportunity for collusion : and
                                it had been thought better to take this power out of the hands of
                                the trustees.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            He also returned the resolution with reference to an amendment of the
                                Practice act, so that a bill of exceptions shall not be filed in
                                vacation, or if it be, that the opposite party shall have notice of
                                the time and place of application, and reported a bill [107] to
                                amend section 343 of the Practice act, so as to provide a mode of
                                taking down evidence in certain cases.

                            The bill was passed to the second reading.

                            He also returned Mr. Heffren's bill [56] to repeal the act
                                prescribing the duties and fixing the compensation of the State
                                Agent, and reported-legislation inexpedient, and that the bill be
                                laid on the table.

                            He also returned the resolution as to the constitutionality of a law
                                that would admit of local taxation on real estate for the
                                construction of roads, with the opinion that such an act would not
                                be constitutional.

                            He also returned the resolution for forbidding intermarriages within
                                the fourth degree in the collateral lines, with a report that
                                further legislation is inexpedient.

                            Which reports were severally concurred in.

                            Mr. Cason, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Orr's bill, [34,] authorizing any and all persons to
                                prevent an affray, and reported-further legislation inexpedient on
                                that subject, and that the bill be laid on the table.

                            The report was concurred in, and according the bill was laid on the
                                table.

                            He also returned Mr. Edson's bill [9] to amend the 148th section of
                                the act of June 17, 1852, for the settlement of decedents' estates,
                                recommending its passage.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. LANE, from the Committee on Public
                                Expeditures, submitted a report alleging that various
                                appropriations of the public money have been made by disbursing
                                officers, in violation of the 3d section of the 10th article of the
                                Constitution, and recommending suitable guards and penalties against
                                such disbursements.

                            Mr. DOBBINS moved to refer it to the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means.

                            Mr. NEBEKER proposed the Judiciary Committee,
                                which was agreed to.

                            

                            Mr. PACKARD, from the Select Committee on the Governor's
                                recommendations with regard to the laws regulating foreign and
                                domestic insurance, reported, as the result of their deliberations,
                                a bill [108] to regulate the business of foreign insurance
                                corporations, associations or individual underwriters of other
                                States, and the agents thereof in the State of Indiana; and the bill
                                [109] to regulate the business of insurance companies doing business
                                under charters granted by the State of Indiana, prior to the 17th
                                day of June, 1852[the date of the approval of the General Insurance
                                law;] which were severally passed to the second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS AND ORDERS.
                             By Mr. DOBBINS. That the Warden of of the Jeftersonville Prison
                                report a statement, showing the number of contractors in connection
                                with said prison, their names, the amount of money due to the State
                                from each, and whether the same can be collected.

                            It was adopted.

                            Mr. LANE submitted an order requiring the Committee of
                                    Thirteen to report on the Virginia resolutions at
                                their earliest convenience.

                            Mr. L. said, those resolutions invite commissioners from all the
                                States to convene at Washington City, the 4th day of February; and
                                if we would respond to the invitation it was necessary that we
                                should have a report as soon as possible.

                            Mr. HEFFREN, in his absence, had understood that this committee's
                                report, had been recommitted, as not satisfactory to the House. He
                                asked to be discharged from further service on that committee.

                            The application was refused.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. There was an order, that this committee should
                                report next Tuesday at 10 o'clock. 

                            The SPEAKER. The Clerk informs the Chair that there is no such entry
                                on the Journal.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The chairman of the committee is absent, and will not be
                                here before Wednesday.

                            Mr. LANE'S object was to have a report as early as possible.

                            Mr. FRASiER proposed to amend by requiring the committee to report on
                                Tusday 2 o'clock. But-

                            On the motion of Mr. WOODHULL, the resolution and amendment were laid
                                on the table-affirmative 39, negative 29.

                            By GROVER. That the Auditor of State be instructed to inform the
                                House what railroads have been appraised, and what has been the
                                change of valuation in such roads per mile, also the present
                                valuation per mile of such roads. 

                            By Mr. KITCHEN. That the committee on the
                                    Judiciary inquire into the expediency of so amending
                                the law as to grant county treasurers two and a half per cent, on
                                county orders; also of exempting them from the duty of visiting the
                                voting precincts to receive taxes.

                            By Mr. GORE. That the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business inquire into the expediency of so amending
                                the law as to graduate the salaries of county officers by the number
                                of inhabitants in the county.

                            Which were severally adopted.

                            By Mr. BURGESS. That the Committee on Roads
                                inquire into the expediency of so amending the Road law, as to allow
                                the road tax to be expended on the lands of the tax payers. It was
                                rejected.

                            By Mr. BRUCKER. That the Committee On Education
                                inquire into the expediency of amending the School law, so as to
                                allow the school-tax collected in towns and cities to be expended
                                therein. It was also rejected.

                            Mr. BLACK presented the proceedings and resolutions adopted by the
                                people of Orange county in mass convention, the 16th of January,
                                acquiescing in the Crittenden amendments as a basis of pacification
                                for the present Federal difficulties; which were referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. ERWIN presented resolutions of a smilar character, adopted at a
                                late Union meeting in Lawrence county; which took the same
                                reference.

                            By HAYES. That the Auditor of State be requested to furnish for the
                                use of the Apportionment Committee an enumeration
                                of the white male inhabitants of the several counties of the State
                                over 21 years of age, in compliance with the constitutional
                                provision, if such enumeration has been made; and, if not, inform
                                the House.

                            By Mr. POLK. That the Auditor of State be requested to report the
                                total value of real and personal property in the State in the years
                                1859 and 1860 respectively the object being to ascertain the
                                increase, &c.

                            By Mr. GROVER. That the President of the Bank of the State of Indiana
                                be requested to inform the House what branches of said bank are
                                opposed to the creation of new branches, and what are the reasons
                                for such opposition.

                            By Mr. BRYANT. Rehearsing the constitutional provision for fencing
                                the Tippecanoe Battle Ground, and requiring the Speaker to appoint a
                                special committee thereon.

                            Which were severally adopted.

                            Mr. CRAIN submitted a resolution directing the Clerk of the House to
                                procure a certified copy of the Judgment of the Supreme Court lately
                                rendered in the case of -- against the town of Connersville.

                            He had learned that, day before yesterday, the Supreme Court decided
                                that bank stocks-the stocks of the Bank of the State and the free
                                banks- are taxable on the certificates and not at the office :
                                thereby deciding that all such stocks held out of the State of
                                Indiana are not taxable. The object of the resolution was to bring
                                this fact before the House.

                            The resolution was adopted: 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 1, 1861
                        No. 8.
                    

                    
                        
                        
                            GERMAN NEWSPAPERS IN THE HOUSE.
                            Mr. PACKARD submitted a resolution, that the Doorkeeper be instructed
                                to procure an equal number of Democratic and Republican newspapers,
                                printed in this city in the German language, and cause them to be
                                laid on the desks of members of this House, properly enveloped and
                                stamped.

                            Mr. HEFFREN had received several copies of the Free
                                    Press, and this morning one copy Of the Volksblatt; it was the first he had seen of the
                                latter.

                            The SPEAKER. The resolution provides for but one copy of each to each
                                member.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The question then is, whether it's the daily or
                                weekly.

                            Several voices, "Weekly."

                            Mr. ROBBINS. The understanding was, that we should have the weekly,
                                not the daily of either.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG had been so informed before by the chairman of the
                                committee, [Mr. Robbins;] but now he got six copies every week of
                                the Free Press, and but one copy weekly of the Volksblatt. He was willing to distribute these
                                Republican German papers, but he desired to distribute an equal
                                number of Democratic German papers. He hoped the the resolution of
                                the gentleman from Marshall might pass, so that we might have a fair
                                shake on each side.

                            Mr. EDSON proposed to amend the terms of the resolution by saying,
                                "five additional copies of the Volksblalt"

                            Mr. NEBEKER. The chairman of the committee was directed to ascertain
                                the price of the copies obtained. He would ask the gentleman if he
                                saw these German editors and made the arrangement. The chairman was
                                a Democrat, and certainly had not intended to do wrong.

                            Mr. ROBBINS. The Volksblatt was five cents a copy
                                stamped, and the Free Press was five cents for the
                                daily and six cents for the weekly.

                            Mr. WOODHULL moved further to amend the resolution, by adding a
                                clause to rescind the order for the Weekly American. He made this motion on account of a paragraph in
                                that paper of to-day.

                            The Clerk read the paragraph: 

                             There is no better qualification for a good legislator than to be
                                pliant in the lobby. Their constituents selected them just because
                                the lobby could use them. We know men who boast that they can make
                                more money, and carry more measures, by belonging to the lobby, than
                                to belong to the legislature proper. There is now a large amount of
                                money in use to control the legislature, not by bribing so much as
                                by wearing out, and already the influence of the lobby is manifest.
                                We like the lobby right well after all.

                            The House was insulted and its motives and integrity were impugned by
                                this language. He had no more at stake than any other gentleman on
                                the floor, but he was not willing to pass it over in silence. It was
                                not charged directly, that money was used here corruptly, but that
                                was inferrable. He thought, that when a paper subscribed for here so
                                far forgot the dignity of its position, as to apply such language as
                                this to the representatives of the people, it was time for the House
                                to show sufficient contempt for the course pursued, to strike it out
                                from amongst those distributed here at the expense of the State.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. The gentleman from Steuben was not as well acquainted
                                with the Rev. editor of that paper as he was, or he would refrain
                                from taking any notice of this matter. Parson Goodwin was a
                                privileged character-a Republican-so notorious in his way, that he
                                could not hurt; and he was at perfect liberty at all times to write
                                and publish whatever he pleased about him.

                            Mr. WOODHULL did not know him, it was true, but this he knew and
                                declared, that he was not in favor of buying any paper and sending
                                it to the people affirming such things of himself; and he hoped the
                                House had self-respect enough to repudiate any man that would
                                publish such matter.

                            Mr. PACKARD. The Editor of this paper might be, and very likely was,
                                well known and justly appreciated by the gentleman from Martin: but
                                our constituents did not know him. He hoped the amendment would
                                prevail. But if not, the Doorkeeper would do him a favor by not
                                leaving the paper on his table. It had thrown contempt on the body
                                from the commencement of the session.

                            Mr. GIFFORD had only to remark, that the Indiana American was formerly published by its present editor in
                                the county he had the honor to represent. And its character for
                                making, without sufficient evidence, disreputable charges, was
                                thoroughly established. He was opposed to paying for such services,
                                and in favor of sinking this paper from the list taken  by this House. If the editor would
                                print groundless slander against the Legislature, he ought to be
                                allowed at least to publish his paper at his own expense. 

                             Mr. SHERMAN. Quite time enough has been spent in talking about these
                                papers. He agreed with his friend from Warren, [Mr. Nebeker,] having
                                been a member with that gentleman of the Committee to which this
                                question was referred, that there was no unfairness in the
                                arrangement. He had himself introduced the resolution providing for
                                the German papers, and so far as he knew, the utmost fairness was
                                intended, He wished distinctly to impress the minds of gentlemen
                                that the object-was not so much to enable them to send the papers to
                                their constituents,as it-was to offer encouragement to these German
                                papers to report our proceedings here. That was, in fact, the only
                                object of the order, so far as he was concerned.

                            Mr: HEFFREN, [interposing.] All I ask is to have as many of one kind
                                as of the other.

                            Mr. SHERMAN. If the encouragement was not equal, he, for one, would
                                be in favor of making it equal. But quite enough had been said, and
                                he rose merely to move to lay the amendment [Mr. Woodhull's] on the
                                table.

                            Mr. PARRETT. That's unfair.

                            Mr. MOORMAN submitted a point of order, that the Weekly American was not in the original resolution. The only way
                                to reach the object of the amendment was to expel the editor, if he
                                had forfeited the privilege of the press.

                            Mr. FISHER concurred.

                            The SPEAKER sustained the point of order, and ruled the amendment
                                out.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed further to amend, striking out all after
                                "resolved," and inserting these words: "That the Doorkeeper be
                                directed to obtain from the publisher live additional copies of the
                                    Volksblatt, to be enveloped and stamped for
                                the use of the members of this House."

                            Mr. GORE moved to lay this amendment on the table.

                            The yeas and nays were demanded and taken, resulting-yeas 41, nays
                                32.

                            Mr. CAMERON (explaining his negative vote) said he was opposed to all
                                these motions to lay on the table, because gentlemen should face the
                                music. If any gentleman has wrongfully disparaged us or our
                                constituents, let us say so.

                            Mr. McLEAN (explaining.) I shall vote to lay the resolution on the
                                table. I must confess that I rather like the Indiana American. It has a sort of independent way of pitching in
                                that pleases me. I am satisfied that it has never done the
                                Democratic party any harm; and I am willing it should exercise its
                                power to kick up a fuss in the Republican party in the most
                                unrestricted manner. It rather pleases me. I regard that paper as
                                one of the most frank, outspoken papers in the State. I do dot know
                                but some members here have be guilty of some things that ought to be
                                held up and rebuked. I trust my skirts are clear, [laughter;] but if
                                any gentleman desires to illustrate my motives or my action here, I
                                wish him to have the opportunity to pitch in. I wish this editor to
                                have a fair hearing. It is a privilege I would give to a political
                                opponent as freely as to one of my own political faith. For myself,
                                I cannot see that this paragraph which has been read has one word in
                                it calculated to lower the dignity of the Indiana House of
                                Representatives. 

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG, [explaining] concur, red with Mr. McLean. He would
                                not touch the liberty of the press, but for matter certainly
                                intended to be offensive and injurious to the body, or to individual
                                members. This seemed to him rather in the sense of warning But one
                                sentence-"There is no better qualification for a good legislator
                                than to be pliant in the lobby," might have been conceived in better
                                terms.

                            Mr. FRAZIER objected to this range of explanation.

                            Tee SPEAKER. The gentleman may state his reasons briefly.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG sat down, after commending the editor, whom he did
                                not know, for his strictures upon some action of the State Board of
                                Agriculture. He voted aye.

                            Mr. VEATCH, [explaining.] I shall vote to lay the resolution on the
                                table, and against any and all resolutiont here that shall attempt
                                to muzzle the press. For one, I am for free discussion for all
                                papers and parties. I do not think there has been a statement
                                printed in that paper since I have been in this Hall that reflects
                                upon any member of this House. And as for the lobbies, I do net feel
                                called upon to protect them. Let the lobby membess hold an
                                indignation meeting if they please, and take care of themselves
                                against the American I shall vote aye.

                            Mr. WOODHULL, [explaining] had not ask-after the political faith of
                                an editor, in a case where there was a manifest slur thrown both
                                upon members of the House and their constituents. He also disclaimed
                                any desire to muzzle the press.

                            So the resolution was laid on the table.

                            The subject was laid on the table, by yeas 48, nays 32.

                            A message from the Governor now announced his approval of Mr.
                                Holcomb's bill, [H. R. 13] to fix the terms of common yleas courts
                                in the Gibson district, and transmitting resolutions of the General
                                Assembly of the State of Tennessee, proposing terms of settlement
                                for the pending Federal difficulties; and also, resolutions of the
                                Alabama Legislature, relative to postal arrangements.

                            Mr. FORD submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges inquire
                                into the expediency of requiring all Railroad Companies in this State to employ only such
                                engineers to run their trains as can procure regular certifies of
                                qualification.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB submitted a resolution, which was laid on the table,
                                directing the Committee on Roads to report a bill
                                repealing that portion of the law requiring a road tax on taxable
                                property.

                            On motion by Mr. STOTSENBERG, the Tennessee and Alabama resolutions,
                                just transited by the Governor, were taken up and referred (without
                                reading) to the Committee of Thirteen.

                            The House then (at 11 o'clock) adjourned till Monday, 2 o'clock P. M.
                            
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE. 

                        
                            MONDAY, January 28,1861.
                        

                        The Senate was not in session before noon. 

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a communication from the
                                President of the Bank Of the State of Indiana, in reference to a
                                resolution of the Senate-[printed on page 80 of these Reports-]
                                giving it as his opinion that an expansion of the Bank circulation
                                was inexpedient, &c. 


                            
                                THE STATE BORROWING MONEY.
                                The PRESIDENT stated the special order to be the consideration of
                                    the bill, [H. R. 104,] to provide for a loan of $75,000 from the
                                    Sinking Fund. The question being on the adoption of Mr. Cobb's
                                    amendment, by way of instructions to the committee on
                                    recommittal of the bill.

                                Mr. WAGNER. I wish to correct a misapprehension that the State
                                    has never paid any interest on the loans heretofore made to the
                                    State. By the report of the Sinking Fund Commissioners, I see
                                    they had State bonds to the amount of $773,000, and that we have
                                    been paying ever since they were issued the interest thereon, in
                                    cash, semi-annually.

                                Mr. COBB. My understanding is that the interest is simply made
                                    into new bonds and handed over to the commissioners-and that the
                                    State has never paid any gold or silver directly into the
                                    Sinking Fund on account of interest-but have in other words been
                                    continually adding interest to the principal. I insist upon it
                                    that this fund ought not to be encroached upon in this way. Mr.
                                    C. continued, at length, in opposition to the passage of the
                                    bill.

                                Mr. WAGNER. As I understand it, the bill proposes to take $75,000
                                    from the Sinking Fund, and make some five or six thousand
                                    dollars for it in the course of three months, certain. The
                                    present plan of disbursing that fund is a perfect waste gate,
                                    and now gentlemen object to making a perfectly safe loan with a
                                    sure gain in three months of about five thousand dollars.

                                [A message from the Governor announced his approval of Mr.
                                    Carnahan's bill [S. 14] described on page 25 of these
                                    reports.]

                                Mr. SHIELDS. I say if the money must be borrowed, let us take it
                                    from the banks and let the school money go to the several
                                    counties where it belongs. It looks to me singular that we
                                    should be borrowing money while we have near half a million of
                                    dollars in the county treasuries of the State.

                                Mr. JONES. By the llth section of the act of '59 to provide a
                                    treasury system, it is made the duty of county treasurers to
                                    send up any moneys belonging to the State on the demand of the
                                    State Treasurer, and no treasurer in the State can avoid
                                    complying with that demand.

                                Mr. HAMILTON did not believe such a demand would be responded
                                    to.

                                Mr. ANTHONY. The necessity is upon us to borrow money, and the
                                    only question is, where shall we borrow it? It seems to me the
                                    bill proposes nothing more than what is perfectly right and
                                    proper, if the State is without money by the delinquency of
                                    county officers, as has been intimated here.

                                Mr. LINE. It seems to me until some gentleman shall inform us
                                    that there has been a demand upon any county treasuaer, and the
                                    officer has refused to comply, the gentleman from Floyd should
                                    not cast such an imputation upon our county officers. Instead of
                                    legislating for a loan, we should instruct the Treasurer of
                                    State to issue orders to the different county treasurers, asking
                                    them immediately to transmit up to the capital whatever funds
                                    they have on hand.

                                Mr. CRAVENS, [Mr. Steele in the Chair] I am decidedly in favor of
                                    the bill under consideration. The treasurers of the different
                                    counties are acting under the law of 1852, which gives them till
                                    April to make their returns ; and having loaned these monies to
                                    their friends, it is almost an impossibility to get returns till
                                    then. I prefer to borrow from the Sinking Fund, for we have a
                                    money crisis upon us, and if the loan is made from the Bank of
                                    the State, we cripple her energies, and she cannot accommodate
                                    the people of the State to the extent required. If a heavier
                                    crisis comes, the bank will put our stocks in market, for it
                                    must have money; but if the state stocks are in the hands of the
                                    Sinking Fund Commissioners, they will hold on to them, and not
                                    allow them to be sacrificed.

                                Mr. RAY While the law of 1852 gives gives county treasurers till
                                    April to make their settlements, the law of 1859 requires then?
                                    to pay over what they may have on hand at the time it is called
                                    for. If we must borrow, let it be from the Bank.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON opposed the passage of the bill. If we borrow at
                                    all, I am in favor of borrowing from some other institution than
                                    the Sinking Fund, for it is a virtual frittering away of that
                                    fund. I move to lay the bill and amendments on the table for the
                                    purpose of  the
                                    introduction of a resolution directing the Treasurer of State to
                                    call upon county treasurers for whatever moneys may be in their
                                    hands belonging to the State.

                                Mr. WAGNER, demanded a division of the question:

                                Tho question being on laying the motion to recommit, with
                                    instructions by way of amendment on the table, it was rejected
                                    by yeas 16, nays 35.

                                The question then recurring on laying the bill on the table, it
                                    was agreed to by yeas 24, nays 17. 
                            
                            

                            
                                STATIONERY FOR MEMBERS.
                                The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a communication from the
                                    State Librarian, made in compliance with an order of the Senate
                                    on the 15th inst., showing the amount of stationery drawn from
                                    him by Senators; which was referred to the Committee on
                                        Finance without reading. 
                            
                            

                            
                                REPLENISHMENT OF THE TREASURY.
                                Mr. JONES, by leave, introduced a joint resolution, [S. 9,] which
                                    was adopted by yeas 42, nays 0, directing the State Treasurer to
                                    call upon county treasurers for whatever amount they may have
                                    collected of the State revenue, and transmit the same to the
                                    State Treasurer, on or before the 10th of February prox. 
                            
                            

                            
                                PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
                                Mr. FERGUSON. I desire to present to the Senate a paper I now
                                    hold in my hand, which I presume properly comes under the head
                                    of a petition, at any rate a request is therein made of this
                                    body. By the kindness of the members of this body, which I hope
                                    is properly appreciated on my part. I was excused from
                                    attendance in the Senate during the whole of last week. During
                                    my absence, I understand you enjoyed some pleasures that I would
                                    have been glad to have shared with you. I was not present when
                                    that beautiful flag was raised that floats over the dome of this
                                    capitol. I did not have the pleasure of hearing the patriotic
                                    speeches that were made on that occasion; I did not hear the
                                    music or see the military parade; but while you were enjoying
                                    these things I was mingling to some extent with the people of
                                    one of the counties that sent me here-a county like yours, Mr.
                                    President, situated upon the Ohio river, where the first
                                    greeting of the morning sun comes over the Kentucky hills. I
                                    found that people agitated, alarmed and depressed under the
                                    gloomy prospect of settling our national difficulties, much more
                                    so indeed than when I first came here, for then they had Anxious
                                    expectations that Congress might do something to afford relief.
                                    That hope has forsaken them now. Still they do not entirely
                                    despair. They are not yet ready to say "there is no balm in
                                    gilead, and no physician there." They think they see a ray of
                                    light piercing the darkness in another direction. On last
                                    Saturday, pursuant to previous notice, a large number of
                                    citizens of Clark county, in Charlestown, composed of both
                                    Republicans and Democrats, met. The President was a Democrat, to
                                    two vice-Presidents Republicans, and the committee that drafted
                                    the resolutions composed of both parties. The resolutions passed
                                    by that meeting I now present to the Senate, in obedience to the
                                    request of the meeting.

                                The resolutions presented contained, among other things, a
                                    request for the General Assembly to appoint commissioners to
                                    meet commisioners from other States at Washington the 4th of
                                    February next, pursuant to the suggestion of the Legislature of
                                    Virginia. They were, under the rule of the Senate, referred to
                                    the Committee on Federal Relations.

                                Mr. LOMAX presented a petition from citizens of Orange and
                                    Lawrence counties, asking for an appropriation of $250 to A.H.
                                    Miller for returning a fugitive from justice; which was read and
                                    referred to the Committee on Claims.

                                Mr. COBB. I have in my possession some resolutions which I wish
                                    to send up and have read. So far as the people of my section of
                                    the State are concerned, they have taken a great interest in the
                                    affairs of our country. They have, it is true, not lost all
                                    hope. They still believe that something can be done to avert the
                                    pending evil. * * * My constituents are high-minded, honorable
                                    men, as the resolutions I hold in my hand indicate. I was going
                                    to say my constituents met in probably the largest convention
                                    that has ever been held in my county, without respect to party;
                                    and they passed the resolutions which I now send up to be read
                                    by way of petition.

                                They were referred to the Committee on Federal
                                        Relations.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB presented the petition of John L. Stevenson, for
                                    allowance of old claims, which, without reading, was referred to
                                    tho Committee on Claims.

                                Mr. BEESON presented a memorial from the State Board of
                                    Agriculture, asking for an appropriation of $10,000, for the
                                    liquidation of indebtedness and the establishment of officers on
                                    a permanent basis; which was read and referred to the
                                        Committee on Agriculture. 
                            
                            

                            
                                REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
                                By Mr. MILLER: Returning Mr. Cobb's bill [S. 3]described on page
                                    13 of these Reports recommending indefinite postponement.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Returning the petition asking for a law making
                                    commutation of fines of persons committed to prison by labor on
                                    roads, with a recommendation that it lie on the table.

                                By Mr. DeHART: Returning the resolution for a law to prohibit
                                    railroads from obstructing streets and highways, and reporting
                                    thai the existing law affords an adequate  remedy; also the resolution, for
                                    amendment of the Divorce act, so as to provide for adding to the
                                    causes of idiocy and hopeless insanity, and
                                    reported-inexpedient; also the resolution for a law authorizing
                                    county commissioners to discharge insolvent prisoners, and
                                    reported- inexpedient.

                                By Mr. CONNER: Returning Mr. Turner's bill [S.29]-see p. 45- with
                                    an amendment, recommending passage; also returning a petition
                                    against trespassers on lands, and reported the expression of
                                    opinion that Mr. Turner's bill embraces all the legislation on
                                    that subject that the Committee deem expedient; and that the
                                    petition lie on the table.

                                By Mr. COBB: Returning the petition for law authorizing county
                                    treasurers to retain the distributive shares to which the
                                    several counties may be entitled of the Common School Fund, with
                                    a recommendation that it be referred to the Committee
                                        on Education.

                                By Mr. CRAVEN: Returning Mr. Line's bill [S. 54]-see page 69-with
                                    an amendment recommending its passage:

                                By Mr. MARCH: Returning a resolution for requiring county
                                    treasurers to visit their townships for taxes about the 9th of
                                    January, and reported-inexpedient, and that the resolution lie
                                    on the table:

                                Which reports were severally concurred in. 
                            
                            

                            
                                STATE REVENUE.
                                Mr. SHIELDS submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing
                                    the Finance Committee to report a bill
                                    compelling county treasurers to pay over the State revenue on
                                    the first days of January, February and March. 
                            
                            

                            
                                COMMISSIONERS TO WASHINGTON.
                                Mr. LANDERS offered a concurrent resolution, proposing a joint
                                    convention with the House next Wednesday, at 2 o'clock, for the
                                    purpose of choosing five citizens to represent this State in the
                                    Convention of Border States in the City of Washington, on the
                                    4th of February.

                                It was referred to the Committee on Federal
                                        Relations.

                                Mr. BEESON submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Treasurer of State report to the Senate whether the State
                                    revenue has been collected and disbursed according to sections
                                    2, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 16 of the act which provides a Treasury system
                                    for the State of Indiana, passed March 1, 1859.

                                Mr. WOLF offered a joint resolution [S. 10] providing for the
                                    appointment of Commissioners to the Boader States Convention in
                                    Washington City, which meets on the 4th day of February, giving
                                    them plenary powers of action-subject to ratification or
                                    rejection by the State.

                                It was referred to the Committee on Federal
                                        Relations.

                                Mr. JONES moved to rescind the rule referring these propositions
                                    to this Committee; and pending its consideration-

                                The Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY, January 28, 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. HAYES presented the petition of sundry citizens of Madison
                                county, for the enactment of a law to protect sheep from the ravages
                                of dogs, which was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, presented the petition of sundry citizens
                                of the State of Indiana, asking for an amendment of the usury laws,
                                so as to allow 10 per cent, interest on contracts.

                            Mr. PACKARD presented the petition of sundry citizens of Starke
                                county, asking for the repeal of the new county acts of 1857 and
                                1859:

                            Which petitions were referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. PROW presented the petition of Driskoll and others, laboring men
                                of Campbellsburg, asking for an ad valorem tax for
                                the purpose of keeping up the roads and highways, which was referred
                                to the Committee on Roads. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COUNTY SEAT OF NEWTON.
                            Mr. GROVER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned the petition from sundry citizens
                                of Newton county, for amendment of the laws relative to the
                                relocation of county seats, and reported further legislation on the
                                subject inexpedient, and that the petition lie on the table.

                            Mr. MOODY. There was a bill on this subject referred to this
                                committee at the same time with the petition; and he desired the
                                report not to be concurred in. He thought it would be easy to show
                                that legislation ought to be had-that the present law operates
                                unjustly on those counties where there are no county buildings. It
                                allows the locating commissioners to demand $15,000 for public
                                buildings.

                            Mr. GROVER. The gentleman who introduced the bill, (Mr. Wells,) had
                                requested that it be not reported upon till he could see the
                                committee and suggest amendments. The committee considered that in
                                the case of the location of the county seat of Newton, the fault was
                                with the commissioners, and net in the law.

                            Mr. WELLS. This was a question of importance to the people of Pike
                                county. It had been discussed in the canvass-both candidates taking
                                the same ground. A large majority in favor of a change in the law.
                                In the case of building or rebuilding courthouses, &c., under
                                the existing law, one-third of the voters of the county, plus one,
                                could control two-thirds of the voters, minus one. This was giving
                                too great advantage to a minority. His bill proposed in substance,
                                that the existing law should only apply to the rebuilding of old
                                county buildings, and that in all other cases the majority should
                                govern. If his bill should not pass, he would propose to amend  the existing law, so that it
                                should require three-fifths, instead of a bare majority.

                            Mr. GROVER. The committee had not reported on the gentleman's
                                bill.

                            Mr. MOODY stated the purport of the petition; set forth at length the
                                unequal operation of the existing law, and the special injustice of
                                the action of the commissioners in the location of the county seat
                                of Newton county. These commissioners were appointed by the late
                                Gov. Willard, and to bring the location Bear his lands, and to
                                accommodate other parties, in disregard of petitions signed by
                                four-fifths of the legal voters, they had made the location within
                                two and a half miles and three and a half miles of the lines in the
                                southwest corner of the county; so that some citizens of the county
                                would have forty miles' travel to reach it. It was because of a
                                remote county seat that they had asked to be set off from the county
                                of Jasper. And now they did not ask for special legislation. All
                                they asked was a removal of the unjust provisions of the existing
                                law, so that two-thirds of the people of that county shall not be
                                compelled, by the will of the balance, to pay $15,000 for public
                                buildings. Inasmuch as the parties interested have succeeded in
                                getting the location, the majority of the people are unwilling to be
                                any longer at their mercy. He desired that the petition should
                                either lie on the table and await the action of the House on the
                                bill, or that it should be recommitted. 

                            Mr. FORD. The Committee felt that great injustice had been done to
                                the; people of Newton county, but saw no remedy, without interfering
                                with the general law on the subject. The objection was, in the
                                desire of the people there to be relieved from the $15,000. But the
                                law requires that two thirds shall petition for it. It was stated
                                that two-thirds were opposed to it; and we concluded, that being the
                                case, they had still the power in their own hands.

                            Mr. MOODY moved that the report be recommitted. Perhaps the Committee
                                did not understand that there was no way by which the number of
                                voters could be ascertained but by taking a census. One amendment he
                                desired to propose to the bill was, that the number of voters shall
                                be taken to be the number of votes polled at the last Congressional
                                election. He repeated his desire for the privilege of going before
                                this Committee with some of the reasons why the law ought to be
                                changed.

                            Mr. GROVER now seconded the motion; and the report was recommitted to
                                the same Committee.

                            Mr. PARRETT, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned Mr. Bundy's bill [27] fixing the Speaker's compensation,
                                with the expression of opinion, that the honors of the position have
                                heretofore, and will in the future, secure the best talent in the
                                House for the place, without any pecuniary compensation.

                            Upon inquiry, it was astertained that this bill had been referred to
                                the Committee Claims; and thereupon-

                            The SPEAKER ruled it out the report. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.
                            By Mr. DOBBINS. That the Judiciary Committee
                                inquire whether it is in accordance with the 5th article, section 4,
                                of the Constitution, to regard the Governor and Lieutenant Governor
                                as eligible to any other office during the term for which they are
                                elected. It was laid on the table.

                            By Mr. WOODS. Rehearsing that defaults have been made in the payments
                                into the common school fund of moneys derived from the sale of lands
                                and estates, escheated for want of heirs; from the sale of animals
                                unlawfully running at large, and moneys paid by corporations for
                                school purposes; and requesting the Committee on Education to
                                consider the propriety of reporting a bill to secure the same to the
                                school fund, and its distribution amongst the several counties.

                            By Mr. HOLCOMB. That the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business inquire into the expediency of amending the
                                law so as to allow county recorders a fair compensation for entering
                                " satisfaction " on the mortgages in their offices.

                            By Mr. BUNDY. That the Judiciary Committee inquire
                                into the expediency of providing by law for the carrying out of
                                section 6 of the 8th art. of the Constitution, which declares that
                                the several counties shall be held liable for so much of the school
                                fund as shall be entrusted to them, and for the payment annually of
                                the interest thereon, &c.

                            By Mr. FISHER. That the Judiciary Committee
                                inquire into the expediency of repealing all laws requiring
                                appraisment and sale of personal property under execution to sell
                                for at least two-thirds its valuation.

                            By Mr. HAYES. That the Committee on the Affairs of the Town
                                    of Indianapolis inquire into the expediency of
                                reporting a bill providing for the erection of a suitable iron fence
                                round the State House Square.

                            Mr. HEFFREN presented the proceedings and resolutions of a Union
                                meeting of the citizens of Washington, Harrison, Crawford, and
                                Orange counties, held at Hardensburg, which were referred to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations. 

                            By Mr. COLLINS, of Whitley. That the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary inquire whether there is any law authorizing
                                County Agricultural Societies to hold real estate, and, if not,
                                report a bill to that effect.

                            By Mr. DOBBINS. That the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges inquire into the expediency of repealing
                                the law requiring every justice of tho Peace to pay to the Secretary
                                of State one dollar for his commission.

                            By Mr. PACKARD. That the Superintendents of the Deaf and Dumb Asylum,
                                and of the Blind Asylum, be invited to give exhibitions of the
                                pupils under their care before the  members of the General Assembly; that
                                the Clerk inform them of the passage of this resolution, &c.

                            By Mr. HUDSON. That the Judiciary Committee
                                inquire into the expediency of so amending the law for the
                                punishment of crimes and misdemeanors as to extend the statute of
                                limitations to five years.

                            By Mr. WILSON. That the Commttee on County and Township
                                    Business inquire into the expediency of so amending
                                the assessment law that the tax payer may be allowed to take the
                                amount of his indebtedndss out of bis personal property as well as
                                solvent claims.

                            By Mr. SLOAN. That the Committee on Ways and Means
                                inquire into the expediency of so amending the assessment law as to
                                allow tax payers to deduct from their taxable property the actual
                                amount of their indebtedness.

                            By Mr. BRUCKER. That the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary inquire into the expediency of so amending
                                the law concerning Justices of the Peace, as to require them to make
                                out every three months, complete lists of fees collected, to whom
                                due, &c.

                            These resolutions were severally adopted. 

                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL COMMISSIONERS.
                            Mr. JENKINSON submitted a joint resolution, that Henry S. Lane, of
                                Montgomery county, Norman Eddy, of St. Joseph county, Samuel Hanna,
                                of Allen county, Simon Yandes, of Marion county, and Robert Dale
                                Owen, of Posey county, are hereby appointed Commissioners on the
                                part of the State of Indiana to the Convention to be beld in
                                Washington City on the 4th day of February, by Commissioners from
                                the other border States to consider a plan of adjustment and
                                settlement of Federal difficulties for the preservation of the
                                Union.

                            It was referred to the Committee of Thirteen.

                            [Personal explanations by Messrs. McLean, Edson, and Woods, are
                                crowded out.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.
                            New bills were now introduced and passed to the second reading,
                                viz:

                            By Mr. DOBBINS: [111] To amend section 6 of the act to amend the act
                                to authorize and regulate the business of General Banking, passed
                                March 13, 1855, notwithstanding the objections of the Governor.

                            By Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe: [112] To provide for an examination and
                                adjustment of the account of Morehead, Hall & Co. against the
                                State of Indiana for work done on the Wabash and Erie Canal, a d for
                                the payment of the balances, if any remain due to them.

                            By Mr. ERWIN: [113] To amend the 2d section of the act to provide for
                                the election and prescribe certain duties of recorders, approved May
                                31, 1851.

                            By Mr. PACKARD [114] To amend the 1st section of the act for the
                                incorporation of manufacturing and raining companies for
                                manufacturing, chemical and building purposes, approved May 20,
                                1852.

                            By Mr. BURGESS: [115] To amend the execution laws of February 17,
                                1852, and March 5, 1859.

                            By Mr. CASON: [116] To require the manufacturers and venders of
                                patent medicines to label their packages and bottles with the
                                ingredients of the composition of such medicines.

                            By Mr. FISHER: [117] Appropriating $4,000 annually to the State Board
                                of Agriculture, [in addition to that by the act of 1852.]

                            By Mr. STOTSENBERG: [118] To authorize the judges of the circuit and
                                common pleas courts to make certain orders in vacation.

                            By Mr. MOODY: [119] Concerning the State, county, township, and road
                                tax in the counties of Jasper and Newton.

                            On the motion of Mr. MOODY, (pleading that the prompt passage of this
                                bill is necessary to save the revenue in those counties,) it was
                                considered and passed the second reading and referred to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.

                            By Mr. BUNDY: [120] To amend the first section of the act of May 27,
                                1852, concerning interest on money.

                            By Mr. HEFFREN: [121 Supplemental to the act concerning county
                                prisons, approved May 27, 1852, and to authorize the establishment
                                of work-houses, and the confinement of certain persons therein to
                                labor.

                            By Mr. JONES, of Vermillion: [122] To organize a Judicial District to
                                be composed of the counties of Vermillion, Parke and Putnam; to
                                provide for the election of Judge and District Attorney, and to fix
                                the terms thereof; to make all writs, process, &c., returnable
                                thereto, and declare when and how the same shall take place.

                            By Mr. JENKINSON: [123] To authorize the owners of a town to vacate
                                streets, alleys, lots and squares therein.

                            By Mr. EDSON: [124] To cure certain defects where persons have acted
                                as deputies under Clerks of the Circuit Court by and with their
                                consent in this State.

                            By Mr. KENDRICK: [125] For the prevention and punishment of frauds in
                                elections.

                            By Mr. BRUCKER: [126] To amend sections 18, 25 and 26 of the act
                                regulating the descent of estates and the apportionment of estates,
                                approved May 14, 1852.

                            By Mr. GIFFORD: [127] To give to the several Clerks of the Courts of
                                Common Pleas the custody of the papers of the former Probate
                                Courts.

                            By Mr. ROBERTS: [128] To amend section 3 of the Liquor law of
                                1859.

                            By Mr. BUNDY: [129] To amend section 178 of the act providing for the
                                settlement of decedents' estates, approved June 17, 1852.

                            By Mr. STOTSENBERG: [130] Requiring certain pleadings where
                                corporations are parties to be sworn to.

                            By Mr. HOPKINS: [131] To release the Trustees of the Wabash and Erie
                                Canal from  keeping up that
                                part of said canal lying within the limits of the city of
                                Evansville, in Vanderburg county.

                            By Mr. BRYANT: [132] To amend the 23d section of the Assessment
                                act.

                            By Mr. Speaker ALLEN: [133] In relation to witnesses, and to amend
                                section 228, art. 13, of the Practice act of June 18, 1852.

                            By Mr. PACKARD: [134] To amend section 476 of the Practice act.

                            The House then adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, January 29,1861.
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
                             By Mr. MELLETT, returning his bill [S. 4] described on page 69 of
                                these Reports recommending passage.

                            By Mr. WOLFE, returning a resolution proposing to amend the law so as
                                to make a recognizance of sureties a lien on their real estate,
                                reporting the same to be inexpedient.

                            By Mr. MARCH returning Mr. Wilson's bill [S. 44]-see p. 69-with
                                amendments, Recommending passage,

                            Were severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ENLARGEMENT OF THE HOSPITAL FOR THE INSANE.
                            Mr. TEEGARDEN offered a preamble and resolution which was adopted,
                                stating that whereas there is now in the State not less than 500
                                insane and epileptic persons not admitted in the State Hospital
                                owing to its crowded condition. That the Committee on
                                    Benevolent Institutions inquire into the
                                practicability of enlarging the Hospital for the accommodation of
                                these persons. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SECURITIES OF THE FREE BANKS.
                            Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                instructing the Committee on Banks to ascertain
                                by actual inspection whether the bonds held as surety for the
                                circulation of the free banks of the State are in the hands of the
                                State Treasurer. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MONEYS ADVANCED ON ACCOUNT OF THE INSANE.
                            Mr. WILSON offered a resolution which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Judiciary Committee to inquire into
                                the expediency of authorizing county auditors to sue in the name of
                                the county board for all moneys that may have been advanced on
                                account of the sixth section of an act concerning insane persons,
                                approved February , 1855, where the property exceeds the sum of
                                $500. 
                        
                        

                        
                            BORDER STATE CONVENTION.
                            Mr. RAY submitted a joint resolution [S. 11] appointing Thos A.
                                Hendricks, Cyrus L. Dunham, Henry S. Lane, Caleb B. Smith, and Wm.
                                T. Otto, Indiana Commissioners to the 4th of February Washington
                                City convention; which was read and referred under a resolution of
                                the Senate, to the Committee on Federal
                                Relations.

                            Mr. JOHNSON moved to suspend the operation of the resolution,

                            Which gave rise to a little debate-

                            The PRESIDENT decided the motion out order; but a motion to
                                reconsider, in order.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS gave notice that he should make such a motion to-morrow.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and passed the first reading
                                without objection:

                            By Mr. ODELL: [89] To establish probate courts in the sevral counties
                                of this State, &c.

                            By Mr. MILLER : [90] Declaratory of the meaning of the words "final
                                judgment" as used in the practice act, approved June 18, 1852.

                            By Mr. O'BREN: [91] To amend section 40 of an act establishing courts
                                of common pleas, approved May 14, 1852, and supply mentary thereto,
                                providing a penalty for the violation of said act. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                            The PRESIDENT. The Senate has made, by its own action, a special
                                order for this hour [10 o'clock.] The minority report of the
                                    committe on Federal Relations[being identical
                                with the joint resolution (S.4) printed on pages 44 and 45 of these
                                Reports.]

                            Mr. CONLEY spoke in favor of concurrence in the report, from
                                manuscript which he held in his hands, for about an hour. [The
                                speech will be printed.]

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. This debate has involved so many strange ideas, and
                                been presented in so many different forms, that I feel called upon
                                now to review the document which has been rehearsed here this
                                morning. I trust that in the pretended love of country, and in the
                                expressions of patriotism seeming to mark the speeches of Democratic
                                Senators, they will not forget the land of their birth : that in all
                                the tears they have to shed over the misfortunes of their country,
                                they may find a few for home consumption. I confess that during this
                                debate, I have heard sentiments that I could not believe could exist
                                in the minds of northern men, of freemen, of white men. But so it
                                is, that in these troublesome times, it has become not only a matter
                                of theory, but a matter of fact, that treason stalks in the cabinet
                                councils of the nation, in the Halls of Congress, and upon the floor
                                of State Senates. While it does, no man can discharge his duty to
                                his country who can silently allow such sentiments to go unrebuked.
                                We are a government not yet a century old.

                            In 1787 our gorvernment went into practicable operation, with a
                                constitution the most patriotic, the most comprehensive, in my
                                humble opinion, the world had ever seen a Constitution, which from
                                that day until this, has resisted the storms of partizan depravity
                                and domestic insurrection. Whether it shall be able in this hour of
                                our trial to brave the storm, I humbly confess I know not; I trust
                                in God it may. When this Constitution of ours,  under which we live, and have in such
                                a marked degree enjoyed ourselves, was made, it was formed with
                                espeical reference to the liberties of the people. The great
                                controlling idea of the men who formed that Constitution was to send
                                the blessings of liberty to the people of this government as a
                                foundation whereon to build up a nation that should in all times be
                                the wonder and admiration of the civilized world. And they have done
                                it. It has for the last half century been the center, the
                                all-obsorbing topic of the civilized world, and wherever there was
                                any degree of intelligence the wonder and admiration of all nations,
                                a living type of a perfect free government. 

                             Mr. C. continued his remarks until near noon, in opposition to the
                                Committee report. When he had concluded- 

                             Mr. MURRAY offered an amendment, striking out all after the first
                                paragraph, and inserting that, whereas the Democratic party, with a
                                ruthless hand, spoiled the time-honored compromise of 1820, thereby
                                renewing the agitation of the slavery question, creating strife and
                                bloodshed in Kansas, &c. Resolved, That we hold the Democratic
                                party responsible for the evils that are likely to flow from the
                                repeal of the Missouri Compromise, &c.; which was referred to
                                the Committee on Federal Relations under the
                                rule.

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. JOHNSON. I am surprised at the latitude which has been taken in
                                this debate; and I hope it will not be considered out of order if I
                                wander a little in my remarks. It was said by the gentleman from
                                Henry, [Mr. Mellett,] that we would not compromise principle. Now it
                                is not proposed to compromise principle, but interest. Our
                                Constitution itself was built upon compromise, and compromises have
                                been repeatedly made by amendments to it. We have come to a time
                                when it is necessary again to compromise by an amendment to that
                                Constitution: and -this is demanded by our sister States of Kentucky
                                and Virginia. When we have dissolution inevitable, staring us in the
                                face, we should be ready to meet them, in order to restore peace and
                                tranquility to our already distracted country. This is but a fair
                                proposition, and no sacrifice of principle. I hope this minority
                                report will be adopted, in view of the proposition to appoint
                                commissioners to the Border State Convention, that they may know
                                what to stand to, and where the State of Indiana may be found. We
                                have got to give up some of our personal predilections to order to
                                save the Government, especially when nothing is asked of us but what
                                is perfectly right. It is our duty to perpetuate this great and
                                glorious union of these States, if possible, and hand it down to our
                                posterity unimpaired. 

                            Mr. MILLER spoke about an hour in opposition to the resolutions
                                reported by the minority of the Committee. [His remarks will be
                                written out by the Reporter for publication.] 

                             Mr. COBB. I do not feel the interest that I once felt on this
                                subject neither would I speak at this time were it not for reasons
                                personal to myself rather than for the public good. I have lost much
                                of the confidence which I brought here with me with reference to the
                                final settlement of the questions which now agitate our common
                                country. I must say I have not the same hope I had yesterday
                                afternoon. I have thought during the whole progress of my life that
                                this Government was destined to be more lasting than that of any
                                government that ever existed before. It has been sustained for over
                                three quarters of a century, but recently we have become distracted,
                                and our government seems now to be tottering upon its foundations. 

                             Mr. C. spoke an hour and a half in support of the minority report,
                                closing with these words of warning on another subject: The
                                Republicans of this Legislature have refused to meet Democrats here
                                with that spirit which they ought to. They propose to pass a bill
                                that is a military despotism, which never shall pass by my vote or
                                with my presence, and I don't propose to be revolutionary either:
                                for with vitality placed in that military bill in time of war, the
                                cost to the State of Indiana would be half a million of dollars
                                annually. 

                            When he had concluded-

                            On motion the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            TUESDAY, January 29,1861.
                        

                         Mr. BUNDY presented the petition of Jacob Branharn and others,citizens
                            of Henry county, asking for a change of the usury laws so as to allow
                            parties to contract for any rate of interest not exceeding ten per
                            cent.; which was referred to the Committee on the
                                Judiciary. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. RAGAN, from the  Committee on Elections,
                                returned Mr. Roberts' bill, [6] to amend the law for the election of
                                Presidential Electors, with the expression of opinion that farther
                                legislation on the subject is inexpedient, and that the bill be laid
                                on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. RAGAN, from the same Committee, returned Mr. McLean's bill [24]
                                and Mr. Jones, of Tippecanoe's bill [30] to prevent voters'
                                emigration from one county or township to another, and to repeal the
                                act of March 6, 1857, and reported farther legislation on that
                                subject inexpedient at present.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. EDSON, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Lee's bill [78] to exempt $300 of widow's property from
                                taxation, recommending its indefinite postponement, and reporting
                                and recommending in lieu thereof a bill [135] to amend section 6 of
                                the act providing for the
                                valuation and assessment of real and personal property for the
                                collection of taxes, &c.; so as to exempt from taxation the
                                property of widows where it does not exceed $300 in value.

                            The report was concurred in, and the new bill passed to the second
                                reading.

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, from the Committee on the
                                    Penitentiary, returned the resolution for a House of
                                Correction for juvenile offenders, with the expression of opinion
                                that, while it is the duty of the State to provide all reasonable
                                means for the correction of juvenile offenders, the present deranged
                                condition of the financial affairs of the State renders the
                                proposition to erect a House of Correction at this time
                                inexpedient.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. ORR, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned the petition of W. W. Ethel and
                                others, for the protection of fish in the inland waters of the
                                State, by a law similar to the Ohio statute of April 7, 1857, and
                                reported the bill [136] for the protection of fish and fisheries,
                                and providing a penalty for the violation of this act.

                            The bill was passed to the second reading.

                            [A Senate message announced the passage of a joint resolution [S. 9]
                                requiring the Treasurer of State to call for the revenue now in the
                                hands of the county treasurers.]

                            Mr. GROVER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned the resolution for amendment of the
                                law so as to relieve the county treasurers from the duty of visiting
                                the townships for taxes, and reported a bill [137] to amend the
                                valuation and assessment act of June 21, 1852.

                            The bill was passed to the second reading.

                            He also returned the resolution for the passage of a law authorizing
                                surveyors, under the direction of county commissioners, to re-survey
                                original section lines, and establish section corners, with the
                                opinion that further legislation on the subject is unnecessary.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            He also returned Mr. Collins of Adams' bill [47] to amend the 29th
                                section of the Supervisors' act of March 5, 1859, recommending its
                                passage, with an amendment inserting "August" for "November."

                            The report was concurred in, and, accordingly, the bill was ordered
                                to be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            DAMAGES AT NORTHPORT.
                            Mr. SLOAN, from the Committee on Claims, returned
                                the petition of W. W. Martin and others, citizens of Noble county,
                                for damages on account of lands overflowed by the Feeder dam at
                                Northport, with an adverse report.

                            Mr. JENKINSON was satisfied that this was a just claim. The State had
                                overflowed some two thousand acres of land in Noble county by that
                                Feeder dam. He moved to recommit the report.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. The only evidence before the committee, of damages
                                sustained there, was on the face of the petition; and that did not
                                state to what extent they had been damaged. If the Legislature
                                should commence paying for damages of this class, we will have
                                petitions coming in from one end of the Wabash and Erie Canal to the
                                other, asking for damages by that improvement. From the fact, that
                                it would be setting a precedent which the State could not stand up
                                toa precedent that would exhaust the public revenues we reported
                                against it. And the committee considered further, that if the
                                petitioners, or the gentleman from Allen would present all the
                                facts, and show conclusively that damages had really been sustained,
                                even then the State could neither allow nor pay them.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. It might be a very convenient morality for the State
                                to take a man's property without paying for it, but the gentleman
                                might as well refuse to pay any other public debt. He was personally
                                conversant wit h the facts in this case. Two thousand acres of good
                                land, the State had made a clear loss to these men. The law also
                                provided for their remuneration, but they never got it.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. Had not the same claim been presented years ago?

                            Mr. JENKINSON. I think not. If it has been passed upon, then all
                                right. But let that fact be shown. Till that is shown, I say the
                                State of Indiana should pay her just debts.

                            Mr. FISHER. This was a familiar subject to him. He was trustee at the
                                time the contract was made. He gave a careful statement of the case.
                                He reported against the improvement at Northport, but was
                                constrained to let the contract by an existing law of which he first
                                recommended the repeal. But the work was for the benefit of the
                                people, and the privilege of water-power and all other benefits of
                                the improvement had been released to the county of Noble.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. Still, this land had been destroyed by the State.

                            Mr. FISHER'S impression was that these men had relinquished all claim
                                for damages; and he thought it had been done in writing.

                            Mr. DOBBINS thought the facts stated by Mr. Jenkinson were presented
                                in 1857 and 1859. It came signed by some fifteen or sixteen
                                persons.

                            Mr. JENKINSON thought it could be proved that these men had never
                                been here before.

                            Mr. DOBBINS was impressed that they had been here. It was useless,
                                however, to refer back the report, for the committee never would
                                report in favor of paying these claims, For the last two regular
                                sessions the House had been flooded with such claims.

                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE REVENUE.
                            Mr. ORR submitted a resolution, which was adopted, referring to a
                                correspondence (accompanying) between the Auditor of Delaware county
                                and other county auditors in relation to a change in the time of
                                paying taxes, and  the time of
                                the County Treasurer's settlement with the Treasurer of State, and
                                directing the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business changes suggested. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                            Mr. STOTSENBERG presented joint resolutions passed by the Legislature
                                of Kentucky, accepting the invitation of the Commonwealth of
                                Virginia to a Convention of State Commissioners, to be held at the
                                City of Washington, the 4th day of February, and appointing five
                                Commissioners thereto accepting the terms of the Crittenden
                                amendments, with explanations and qualifications and embracing
                                inductions to their Commissioners.

                            They were read by the Clerk.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG had presented these resolutions, without waiting for
                                any formality Of authorized transmission, on account of the urgency
                                that the body should act upon them at once.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN, [Mr. Bundy in the Chair.] As it might be expected
                                from the course taken in the Virginia resolutions, that a copy of
                                these resolutions had been transmitted to the Governor, and would be
                                by him laid before this House, he moved to lay them on the table for
                                the present. The object of this motion was that they should not go
                                to the Committee till they should be communicated by the
                                Governor.

                            Mr. HEFFREN, Under our rule, all such propositions go to the
                                Committee. But he was willing to rescind the rule. That would have
                                to be done before the resolutions could go to the table ; and he
                                hoped the House would do it at once.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN. The resolutions would certainly go to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen. The only reason of his
                                motion was,that they might come with the official sanction of the
                                Governor, whose duty it is to communicate them to the House. He
                                withdrew the motion.

                            The SPEAKER ordered their reference.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN presented the resolutions embraced in the
                                proceedings of a Union Meeting of citizens of Glbson county, without
                                distinction of party, Thursday, January 24, 1861.

                            They were ordered to the Committee of
                                Thirteen.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB, (by unanimous consent') stated his information that the
                                meeting which passed these resolutions was called for the purpose of
                                having a free expression of opinion of all parties. That the
                                chairman of the meeting was a Republican ; that a Committee was
                                raised which reported this series of resolutions ; and that when
                                they were proposed to be amended by substituting the Crittenden
                                amendments, the chairman adjourned the meeting, and refused to
                                submit the substitute for consideration. And thereupon the Union men
                                present appointed another meeting, which was to take place
                                to-day:

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN, (by consent,) knew nothing "of the circumstances
                                under which these resolutions were adopted, They had been forwarded
                                to him with a request to lay them before the House of
                                Representatives. The gentleman from Gibson, he hoped, would pardon
                                him for saying, that, as far as these resolutions were concerned,
                                they emanated from a Union meeting, and that those concerned in
                                calling the other meeting could not be the Union men that adopted
                                them. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ASSIGNED CLAIMS.
                            Mr. JONES, of Wayne, submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that
                                the Committee on the Judiciary inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the law for the collection of assigned
                                claims, so that the Payee, as well as the Assignor, may be a
                                competent witness in the case. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMPENSATION OF COUNTY OFFICERS.
                            Mr. McLEAN submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on County and Township Business
                                inquire into the expediency of so amending the law in regard to
                                county offices as to make the same salaried offices, wherever the
                                present fees allowed exceed in the aggregate $1,500-the excess of
                                such fees above that sum, after deducting a reasonable allowance for
                                clerk-hire, to be paid into the county treasury. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ROAD TOLLS.
                            Mr. ORR submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Roads inquire into the
                                expediency of reducing the toll on plank, gravel and macadamized
                                roads, so as to make the same more uniform ; and especially of
                                reducing the rates on sheep, &c., which do the roads but little
                                injury. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JUSTICES' FEES.
                            Mr. McCLURG submitted a resolution, which was adopted, inquiring into
                                the expediency of allowing justices of the peace a fee of one dollar
                                for the trial of every case submitted to them. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COLUMBUS UNION RESOLUTIONS.
                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, presented the proceedings of a late Union
                                meeting held at Columbus, in his county; which were referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MISS DILL'S GAZETTE.
                            Mr. HOLCOMB submitted an order that the Doorkeeper subscribe for a
                                copy of Miss Dill's Gazette, to be laid on the
                                desk of each member of the House.

                            After debate and sundry amendments laid on the table, the resolution
                                was lain on the table-yeas 54, nays 51.

                            Mr. PROSSER made an ineffectual motion to suspend the order of
                                business and take up the Senate joint resolution for calling in the
                                revenue.

                            Mr. WOODHULL submitted an order, that the proceedings of Union
                                meetings presented here shall be referred without reading.

                            

                             Mr. EDSON considered that there was a manifest propriety in reading
                                them at this time, and reasoned against the rule proposed.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. A proposition to establish a rule must lie over without
                                debate.

                            The SPEAKER so ordered.

                            Mr. RAGAN submitted an order that the Doorkeeper procure a copy of
                                the first volume of Gavin & Hord's Statutes for the chairmen of
                                each of the Standing Committees of the House.

                            Mr. EDSON. An order had been passed for 10 copies-that is one for
                                each committee room in the building.

                            Mr. RAGAN. That resolution seems to have been lost. The Doorkeeper is
                                without authority to proceed.

                            The resolution was rejected.

                            Mr. CAMERON proposed a resolution, that the rules of the House
                                relating to the hours of session and adjournment be suspended till
                                the 10th day of February, and whilst they are so suspended the House
                                will meet at 9 o'clock a. m., and adjourn ot 1 o'clock p.m: Provided
                                that so much of the rules as relates to adjournment on Saturday be
                                not suspended.

                            It lies over one day. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ORDER OF BUSINESS.
                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted a resolution, that the order of businees be so
                                changed that the introduction of resolutions shall come after the
                                other orders.

                            The SPEAKER. It lies over.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN. It was but to change an order adopted by the
                                Speaker, not by the House.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. If we consume the morning hours with resolutions, we
                                shall not get through with the business of the session. It is
                                better, if gentlemen have buncombe resolutions, to postpone them
                                till the last.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, objected to the unfair intimation that
                                resolutions were for buncombe. Perhaps the gentleman from Washington
                                had introduced his full share.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN thought the House should adopt this order. He
                                concurred in the opinion, that if the present order be carried out,
                                we will never reach our business in which the State is deeply
                                interested. He had no desire to prevent gentlemen from offering
                                resolutions in which they or their constituents may be
                                interested.

                            He was not laboring under the belief that resolutions here had been
                                offered for buncombe.

                            Mr. HEFFREN had said if gentlemen desire to offer buncombe
                                resolutions.

                            Mr. ALLEN. Then I have to say, I do not believe there is a member
                                here who desires to offer buncombe resolutions.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. A similar resolution was adopted with advantage last
                                session.

                            The order was adopted.

                            Mr. FERGUSON submitted a resolution directing the Judiciary
                                    Committee to inquire into the expediency of amending
                                the supplemental exemption act of March 5, 1859, so that the person
                                entitled to its benefits shall be required to make out and present
                                to the sheriff an inventory of all his real and personal estate
                                belonging to him at the date of the issuance of the writ.

                            Mr. F. said the idea was merely to supply the word "personal" in the
                                statute.

                            The resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, submitted resolution, which was rejected,
                                that the Committee on Claims inquire into the
                                expediency of giving landlords' claims priority overall other
                                indebtedness.

                            Mr. ORR submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Judiciary Committee inquire into the
                                expediency of providing penalties for the failure of county
                                treasurers to make final settlement at the time required by law.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            JAMES WILSON.
                            Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to reconsider the vote of the House adopting
                                Mr. Prosser's resolution for a committee to erect a monument over
                                the remains of James Wilson, & signer of the Declaration of
                                Independence reposing in the Charlestown burying grounds' It was
                                proper that such poor reverence be paid to the memory of James
                                Wilson, if his bones reposed in this State; but from what he could
                                learn James Wilson died in the town of Eaton, in the State of South
                                Carolina on the 12th day of January, 1798, when Charlestown was a
                                howling wilderness. So that if he were buried in any Charlestown, it
                                might be Charleston, Soutn Carolina, where it might not be agreeable
                                for some of us now to go.

                            Mr. PROSSER had his information from the Senator from Clark
                                county.

                            Mr. HOWARD could get no certain information that any such person was
                                ever buried in the Charlestown grave yard.

                            The resolution was reconsidered and laid on the table.

                            Mr. COOPRIDER submitted an order, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on County and Township Business
                                inquire into the expediency of referring the power back to the
                                Township Trustee to change and vacate roads, in cases where but a
                                single townships is concerned.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB submitted an order, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on County and Township Business
                                inquire into the expediency of authorizing county recorders to
                                receive their fees at the time of filing the papers for record.

                            Mr. ORR submitted a resolution requiring the Auditor of State to
                                report the amount of fees accounted to his office under the act of
                                March 5th, 1859.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN said the Governor had been requested by a
                                resolution of the House to communicate this matter, and he had been
                                informed that it would be done perhaps to-day.

                            Mr. ORR withdrew the resolution. 
                        
                        

                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION
                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN submitted a series of resolutions [joint resolution
                                25] on this general subject. 

                            They were read by the clerk.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend by substituting a series of
                                resolutions. [Joint resolution 26.]

                            The SPEAKER. The gentleman may offer his resolution as an independent
                                proposition. The resolutions of the genltman from Knox, immediately
                                upon being read, under a rule of the House, were referred to the
                                Committee without debate. It is impossible for the Chair to
                                entertain an amendment to such a proposition. 

                            Mr. HEFFREN'S resolutions were then read.

                            Mr. GRESHAM submitted a series of resolutions [J. R. 27] on the same
                                subject; which were also read and referred under the rule. 

                            [Mr. Speaker Allen's resolutions propose no commissioners to the
                                Washington convention. Mr. Heffren's propose Henry S. Lane, Caleb B.
                                Smith, Wm. T Otto, Thomas A. Hendricks, and Cyrus L. Dunham. Mr.
                                Gresham's propose Henry S. Lane, Caleb B. Smith, Wm. T. Otto, John
                                P. Usher, and Robert Dale Oowen]

                            Mr. HOLCOMB submitted a concurrent resolution for a joint convention
                                of the two Houses, Wednesday at 2 o'clock, to elect five
                                commissioners to represent, the State of Indiana in the Washington
                                convention, to meet on the 4th day of February, in compliance with
                                the request communicated by the General Assembly of the Commonwealth
                                of Virginia.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB. I apprehend that does not go to the Committee
                                    of Thirteen.

                            The SPEAKER. The resolution provides expressly that all matters in
                                relation to the present excited state of our country, and all
                                matters and resolutions proposing remedies therefor shall be
                                referred to the Committee of Thirteen; and if the
                                appointment of commissioners does not look like a remedy for the
                                present difficulties, then the Chair does not understand the force
                                of language.

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to suspend the order of business and the Veatch
                                resolution, for the purpose of enabling him to move to take up the
                                consideration of the joint resolutions on Federal Relations, which
                                have been presented to-day.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. Or which may be presented.

                            The SPEAKER. A resolution cannot be suspended by a motion.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Then put it in the shape of a resolution.

                            The SPEAKER decided the resolution out of order. The resolutions
                                presented to-day could not be reached without first reconsidering
                                the rule.

                            Mr. DOBBINS moved to reconsider the vote adopting the Veatch
                                rosolution.

                            The SPEAKER. The motion to reconsider must come from one having voted
                                with the majority.

                            Mr. LANE asked if it would be in order for one who had voted with the
                                majority to move to reconsider the vote adopting the Veatch
                                resolution.

                            The SPEAKER. The Chair is of opinion that a motion to reconsider that
                                vote has been once made, and that that motion was laid on the table.
                                If the Chair is correct in that, a motion to reconsider cannot be in
                                order.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. It was a motion to rescind that was laid on the table. I
                                am very certain there never has been a motion made to reconsider
                                that vote. 

                             The SPEAKER. The Journal will show. The resolution of Mr. Veatch has
                                become one of the rules of the House, and it cannot be changed,
                                except in the mode pointed out by the rules of the House.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. Would it be in order to move a suspension of that
                                rule?

                            The SPEAKER. It is in order to suspend at any time; but if the object
                                be to take up these resolutions, the Chair decides that they cannot
                                be taken up without first passing an order for their return to the
                                House.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. I appeal to those in favor of responding to the call for
                                the Washington City Convention not to press this matter any further
                                now. I hope they will postpone it till to-morrow morning. I will say
                                to them, I am with them; I don't care where they come from.
                                [Approbation.]

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted an order, directing the Committee of
                                    Thirteen to return the joint resolutions offered this
                                day by Mr. Speaker Allen, Mr. Gresham and himself.

                            Mr. BRANHAM would suggest that the Committee of
                                    Thirteen meets this evening; and there will probably
                                be a majority and a minority report.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. These three resolutions represent the three ideas or
                                opinions on the whole subject entertained by gentlemen on this
                                floor, and I want them before the House at once.

                            Mr. BRANHAM had considered it important that before they report the
                                Committee should get all the views of the various sections before
                                them. Then let them report. Let us not place ourselves in a position
                                where these resolutions may be coming in on us continually. When the
                                report shall come in, I for one will be willing that gentlemen shall
                                debate it to their heart's content, so that they shall not be
                                debating this thing on every question, I hope that when the House
                                adjourns, it will be till to-morrow morning, in order to give time
                                for this to be done.

                            Mr. PROSSER that is the best plan.

                            Mr. BUNDY hoped the Committee would have time to meet this afternoon
                                and consult on a report and make it, that this vexed question may be
                                settled. It was a disturbing element, increasing in force. Every day gentlemen were anxious to get
                                more resolutions before the Committee. Their name was legion. It
                                would take months of time to read and consider them all.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. I withdraw my resolution.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG submitted an order that the Committee of
                                    Thirteen report at 10 o'clock to-morrow.

                            The SPEAKER ruled it out.

                            Mr. BUNDY (Chairman) had leave to announce a meeting of the
                                    Committee of Thirteen in the Ways and Means
                                Committee-room at 2 o'clock.

                            The House then adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.

                        
                            WEDNESDAY, January 30, 1861.
                        

                        Mr. SHOEMAKER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                Business, returned Mr. Lomax's bill, [S. 13]-described on
                            page 25 of these Reports-recommending indefinite postponement.

                        Mr. LINE, from the same, returned a resolution desiring that marriage
                            licenses be issued by county recorders instead of clerks, recommending
                            that it lie on the table.

                        Mr. ANTHONY, from the same, returned a resolution proposing to substitute
                            salaries for county officers instead of fees ; reported legislation
                            unnecessary, and recommended its reference to the Judiciary
                                Committee.

                        Mr. LINE, from a Select Committee, returned various petitions praying
                            alteration in the wild game law, recommending that they lie on the
                            table, as there is a bill before the Senate embracing the object.

                        These reports were severally concurred in. 

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the rules of order were suspended-yeas 34,
                                nays 14-and the unfinished business taken up-being the minority
                                report of the Committee on Federal Relations,
                                [identical with the joint resolution (S. 4) printed on pages 44 and
                                45 of these Reports.]

                            [A message from the Governor was received, transmitting resolutions
                                adopted by the Tennessee Legislature condemnatory of the resolutions
                                lately passed by the Legislature of New York.]

                            Mr. DE HART. The proper time to have answered the eloquent and
                                poetical Senator from Lawrence, [Mr. Cobb] would have been at the
                                time he took his seat, whilst his propositions and effusions were
                                fresh upon the memory. But cut off by that motion which is always in
                                order, he has slept over the argument, "and slept soundly." Thanking
                                the Senate for the floor this morning, he would now proceed to
                                review it. The length forbade him to follow the entire course of the
                                Senator, as he began with the creation, and closed with the Kansas
                                and Nebraska bill. It would have been safer for the Senator if
                                history had not been written-his charges of outrage against the
                                "peculiar institution" of the South, more plausible to the public
                                ear, if they had not been so often refuted upon every stump in the
                                North. The Democratic party, by their own ruthless hands, had
                                plunged this fair land of ours into its present ruinous condition.
                                Faithless to time-honored compromises, chained to the Juggernaut of
                                slavery, and desperate in their unholy endeavor to amend that
                                time-honored Constitution of our country, so as to nationalize and
                                make real that "wild and guilty fantasy that man can hold property
                                in man'' they were only to be checked by the firmness and courage of
                                the Republican party. The immutable principle of right afforded the
                                only true basis for political organization. The framers of our
                                Constitution, and the patriots who laid its foundation, fixed their
                                minds up on the eternal throne, and appealed to the Supreme Ruler to
                                witness that they were in earnest. To amend that, Constitution, as
                                demanded by the report under discussion, would be to mar its beauty,
                                defeat its purpose, and make this the land of slavery. He summoned
                                the Fathers to bear testimony that this Government was made to
                                protect "the rights of human nature." That they looked forward to
                                the time when slavery should cease to exist, and carefully avoided
                                the words-slavery op slave in framing the Constitution, so that when
                                it ceased to exist, there should be no evidence in that instrument
                                to show that it. ever existed cursed our common country. All this
                                was now changed. Slavery had grown bold, defiant and impudent, and
                                sought the sanction of the Supreme law of the land. The Republican
                                party had just triumphed upon this issue, and they would defend the
                                ground they had now. He would not deprive the South of a single
                                right they enjoyed under the Constitution as it now stands. That
                                there was a wide difference between compromise and the change of
                                that supreme organic act. Compromises and concessions were usually
                                made before verdicts were returned. That there were patriots
                                everywhere, who, at the right time, would rush to the defence of
                                their country's flag, as did the heather-hidden natives ef Clan
                                Alpin to the shrill whistle of their chief.

                            [The delivery of this speech occupied two hours and a quarter.]

                            Mr. LANDERS. I would be loth to my duty if I were not to cast my vote
                                in favor of this minority report. Though not as a first proposition,
                                my constituents are in favor of compromise and concession, and
                                Republicans in my county are surprised when I tell them that members
                                on the other side of this Chamber oppose it. This proposition is
                                intended to settle the question of slavery, and drive it out of our
                                council halls; in other words, to quiet agitation. The right of
                                transit of slaves over the free States should not be objected
                                to.

                            

                            [A message from the House announced the concurrence in the joint
                                resolution, [S. 9,] directing the State Treasurer to call upon
                                county treasurers for State revenue, which they may have collected
                                by the 10th proximo.] 

                            Mr. Landers yielded the floor for the noon recess. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. FERGUSON presented a petition, which was referred without
                                reading, to the Commitee on Claims.

                            Mr. MURRAY, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned his bill [S. 61]-see page
                                88-recommending its reference to the Committee on
                                    Finance.

                            The bill was so referred. 


                            
                                RAILROADS AND COUNTY AUDITORS.
                                Mr. TARKINGTON offered the following preamble and resolution,
                                    which was adopted:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            WHEREAS rumor says that many of
                                                the railroads of this State had their real estate
                                                re-appraised since the general appraisement of
                                                1859-therefore

                                            Resolved, That the Auditor of State
                                                be instructed to report to the Senate what railroads
                                                have had their real estate re-appraised since the
                                                general appraisement of 1859 ; what said roads were
                                                appraised at per mile under the 2d clause of the 6th
                                                section of the amended act approved March 4th, 1859
                                                ; and what is the present appraised value per mile;
                                                and the difference in favor of the roads in the
                                                present valuation; and by what authority county
                                                auditors become appraisers of the real estate of the
                                                railroad to appraise the same at the pleasure of
                                                said roads.
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                                 [Mr. O'BRIEN submitted resolutions, adopted by a Union meeting
                                    of the citizens of Aurora, calling upon the Legislature to
                                    respond to the Virginia resolutions, asking that Commissioners
                                    be sent to the Border States Convention to be held at Washington
                                    on the 4th prox., which were read and referred to the
                                        Committee on Federal Relations.] 
                            
                            

                            
                                ILLINOIS, KENTUCKY AND OHIO TO VISIT US.
                                Mr. BEARSS offered a resolution, which was referred to the
                                    Lincoln Invitation Committee, inviting the Legislature of
                                    Illinois, Ohio and Kentucky to visit this Legislature at the
                                    time Mr. Lincoln does. 
                            
                            

                            
                                REORGANIZATION OF THE MILITIA.
                                Mr, RAY. I move to take up the military bill [S. 72] which I
                                    introduced for a friend, that it may be referred to the
                                        Military Committee. I do not wish to
                                    stand sponsor for the bill, because I have not read it, and do
                                    not know what it contains. My opinion is against
                                    re-organization, but if the Republicans are so determined, I
                                    want they should select between the two systems.

                                The motion was agreed to. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS
                                The following bills were introduced and severally passed the
                                    first reading without objection :

                                By Mr. WILSON : [92] To empower notaries public to solemnize
                                    marriages.

                                By Mr. COBB: [93] Changing the time of holding common pleas
                                    courts in Jackson county.

                                By Mr. O'BRIEN : [94] To provide for the collection of taxes
                                    assessed upon lands, or lots mortgaged to secure loans on any of
                                    the trust funds, and to repeal the 8th section of chapter 6 of
                                    the Revised Statutes of 1852, being the assessment act.

                                By Mr. HAMILTON : [95] To provide for the sale and conveyance of
                                    property by sheriffs where judgments are rendered and executions
                                    issed against property owned by corporations, and which is
                                    situate in one or more counties.

                                By Mr. MILLER : [96] Relating to judgments on instruments of
                                    writing containing promises to pay money without relif from the
                                    appraisement laws.

                                [A message from the House announced the reconsideration of the
                                    vote concurring in the joint resolution, [S. 9] for the
                                    replenishment of the State Treasury, and asking the return
                                    thereof.] 
                            
                            

                            
                                FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                                The Senate resumed the consideration of the subject pending at
                                    the time of the recess for dinner.

                                Mr. LANDERS [in continuation] One of the proportions submitted by
                                    Mr. Crittenden prohibits the re-opening of the slave trade, and
                                    republicans opposing the compromise are certainly acting very
                                    inconsistent. Another proposition is an amendment to the
                                    fugitive slave law, so as to allow the slave holder the right to
                                    recover off the General Government the value of a slave rescued
                                    by a mob. This is right and proper, and if carried out we would
                                    have but few mobs in the country. *** The slave holder has a
                                    right in our territories and that right ought to be respected. *
                                    * * I could not represent my constituents on this question in
                                    any other way than to vote for the minority report. Mr. L. spoke
                                    nearly an hour, and closed by urging upon the Legislature the
                                    necessity of sending Commissioners to the border State
                                    Convention at Washington.

                                [Mr. MARCH, from the Committee appointed to invite Mr. Lincoln to
                                    visit the Legislature of Indiana, while on his way to
                                    Washington, submitted a written report, indicating His
                                    Excellancy's acceptance for the 12th proximo; and recommending
                                    the appointment of a committee of arrangements. The report was
                                    concurred in and referred back to the same committee with
                                    instructions to proceed as they may think best.] 

                                Mr. WAGNER occupied the remainder of the session with remarks in
                                    opposition to the minority report and in opposition to the
                                    sending of commissioners to the Washington 4th of February
                                    Convention.

                                The Senate then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, January 30,1861.
                        

                        Mr. HEFFREN objected to the usual motion to dispense with the reading of
                            the Journal of yesterday, to enable him to call attention to the fact that the clerk did not
                            enter on the Journal any motion or resolution ruled out by the Chair. He
                            subsequently withdrew the objection, and submitted the following order,
                            which was adopted: That the Clerk be directed to make an entry in the
                            Journal of all motions and resolutions decided to be out of order. 

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. ROBBINS presented the memorial of sundry citizens of Fulton
                                county, for amendment of section 70 of the Assessment act, so as to
                                require the township assessors to make their reports to the
                                March-session of the commissioners.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG presented the remonstrance of a portion of the
                                citizens of Newton county, against any change or relocation of the
                                county seat of said county. It was signed, he said, by about 280
                                citizens. He had been desired to say, on their behalf, that the
                                present location of the county seat was proper and eligible, on the
                                line of a railroad, and in the trade center of the county, where all
                                the farmers come to sell their produce. Some $1,200 have been
                                subscribed for the public buildings at this point, which would be
                                lost if the county seat were taken away. They state, also, that as
                                for any imputations that have been cast upon the memory of the late
                                Gov. Willard, they are utterly groundless. Perhaps it would have
                                been better for them to have been presented, so that he could have
                                met his accusers face to face while lining.

                            The remonstrance was read and referred to the Committee on
                                    County and Township Business.

                            Mr. EDSON presented the petition of Andrew Thew and others, citizens
                                of Posey, county, asking for legislation that shall offer a reward
                                of $200 to $300 a piece for catching horse thieves; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.

                            Mr. WELLS presented the memorial of sundry citizens of Pike county,
                                asking for a law to authorize Dam Companies ; which was referred to
                                a select committee, namely: Messrs. Wells, Horton and Brett.

                            Mr. NEBEKER presented the memorial of sundry citizens of Mound
                                township, in Warren county, against the present township law, as
                                placing too much power over common schools in the hands of the
                                trustees; which was referred to the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.

                            Mr. WOODRUFF presented the petition of sundry citizens of Indiana,
                                recommending to the patrenage of the General Assembly, The
                                Anti-Stuffing and self-Detecting Patent Ballot-Box of M. J. Shinn,
                                of Richmond, Indiana; which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Elections.

                            Mr. BRYANT presented the petition of sundry citizens, for enclosing
                                the Tippecanoe Battle Ground; which was referred to the Select
                                Committee on that subject.

                            Mr. WOODS presented the petition of Johnson, Wheeler, and others,
                                citizens of Lake county, for a law to make timber stealing larceny,
                                and punishable as such; which was referred to the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. FISHER, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned the resolution for an amendment of the assessment law so as
                                to allow tax-payers to deduct from the actual value of all their
                                taxable property, the actual amount of their indebtedness, with the
                                expression of opinion that legislation thereon is inexpedient.

                            [A message from tee Governor transmitted information in response to a
                                resolution of the House from the President of the Commissioners of
                                the Sinking Fund, and the Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of State
                                with reference to the amount of fees and perquisits received by them
                                and paid into the Treasury under the act of March 5, 1859.]

                            Mr. DAVIS said, many pay taxes on more than they are worth. He wanted
                                a just law of taxation, and would vote against concur, ring in the
                                report of the Committee.

                            Mr. PROSSER. The law as it stands, in his judment, was a good deal
                                better than the proposed change. If the changes were made as desired
                                by the gentleman from Scott, then the floating residents wonld pay
                                no more taxes. It could not be otherwise. For example: Here are two
                                men living neighbors. One has a piece of land, and happens to be out
                                of debt. His land is worth a thousand dollars. The other neighbor
                                has his means amounting to a thousand dollars invested in stock,
                                horses, cattle, sheep, and hogs. Under the proposed change the
                                former would be taxed beyond a doubt. But the neighbor whose means
                                are in stock, happens to be in debt to the amount of a thousand
                                dollars, and he takes his indebtedness from the amount of his
                                taxable property, and there is in his hands a thousand dollars worth
                                of property on which not a cent of tax is paid. The merchant would
                                take his indebtedness out of his taxables, and escape also.

                            Mr. FISHER. If you had a law according to the resolution, not a
                                dollar of tax could be collected from any railroad company in the
                                State.The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts of Justice, returned Mr. Cameron's bill (3) to
                                amend the Common Pleas act so as to provide for holding said Court
                                in the County of Newton with amendments recommending passage.

                            The report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. ORR, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges returned the resolution for a repeal of the
                                law requiring Justices of the Peace to pay $1 fee for commission,
                                with a recommendation for indefinite postponement. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                

                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 4, 1861
                        No. 9
                    

                    
                        

                        

                            CONCEALED WEAPONS.
                             Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Prosser's bill (63) To repeal
                                the act against carrying concealed or dangerous weapons, of February
                                23, 1859, recommending indefinite postponement.

                            Mr. PROSSER had introduced this bill not. because the law as it now
                                exists conflicts with his interests-living in a rural district
                                amongst peaceable folks,but it had been suggested to him by others.
                                There was but one point in it, and that was to take away the
                                inequality of the operation of the existing law. A law-abiding
                                citizen did not desire to carry these weapons whilst the short
                                haired fraternity-the ''rounders," or what you please to call them,
                                that ask no odds of the law, they carry weapons in spite of the law:
                                And it was very seldom that you could get hold of such a man to
                                punish him. Thus honest men were left at the mercy of this clan.
                                This was the only point in his bill; the only question was whether
                                the law ought to be repealed and place the business men on a level
                                with the ruffian.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. The present law might receive amendments in regard to
                                officers, and then he thought it might be better than this bill.

                            Mr. ORR. The very reasoning of the gentleman from Brown induced the
                                the committee to report against his bill. We would not lagalize the
                                carrying of weapons by the short-haired gentry.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. There should not be a law on the statute-book which is
                                violated with impunity, as this law was. This was the way to excite
                                contempt for all law. It was a law against public sentiment and
                                public justice.

                            Mr. ROBBINS concurred with Mr. Heffren.

                            The House refused to concur in the report, and the bill was ordered
                                to be engrossed.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned the petition from sundry citizens
                                of Madison for legislation against sheep-killing clogs, with a
                                recommendation that, it may be referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            The petition was so referred. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONVENTIONAL INTEREST.

                            Mr. SHERMAN, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Orr's bill [74,] to regulate
                                interest on money, and repeal the act of May 27, 1852, with a
                                recommendation that the same do pass.

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved that the report with the bill be indifinitely
                                postponed.

                            Mr. DOBBINS referred to the bad influence of a conventional interest
                                in the States of Wisconsin and Ohio. After a fair trial in both
                                these States the producing and consuming classes petitioned
                                numereously for its repeal, till it was accomplished. The same thing
                                had been tried in this State, and now there was a compromise. If the
                                merchant pays 10 per cent, for money to buy his goods, the consumer
                                at last lias to pay it, in the increased price of the goods he
                                consumes.

                            Mr. LANE. We should legislate for the greatest good of the greatest
                                number. The rule would not allow us to legislate for capitalists.
                                Look at the condition of any new State that has adopted such a law,
                                like Iowa. It was like the condition of our own State when we had
                                such a law, which resulted in the compromise on six per cent.,
                                stated by Mr. Dobbins.

                            Mr. PACKARD replied that he had discussed it before the people, and
                                although he had no selfish interest to consult in the passage of the
                                bill, he confessed that he felt much interest in its success. His
                                constituents were largely in favor of this increase in the rate of
                                interest. If petitions were circulated amongst thorn, there would be
                                found fifty to one in its favor. The experience of our own and other
                                States, which has been referred to by members, was not the result of
                                a high rate of interest, but it was occasioned by deep-seated
                                difficulties, arising from heavy State debts and taxes. He had,
                                until a recent period, resided in Michigan, and there the ten per
                                cent interest law had acted beneficially. He concurred in the
                                position assumed by Mr. Heffren in the discussion relative to the
                                law against carrying concealed weapons, that laws which were
                                generally disregarded ought not to be continued in existence; and
                                the existing law, limiting the rate of interest to six per cent., is
                                constantly violated. The people will have money when their business
                                wants demand it, be the law what it may. The necessity of a change
                                in the law is more felt in the border counties than in other parts
                                of the State. The northern counties are drained of their surplus
                                    capital, because it is sent
                                to the adjoining States, where it can find a higher interest. He
                                would be the last man to legislate against labor, but this bill
                                promotes its welfare as much as that of the capitalist. As to loans
                                made by merchants from banks, and'the argument from them, he would
                                reply by asking whether such loans can now be made for less than 10
                                or 12 percent? Since this is the rate of interest generally given, a
                                change in the law will not result in actually increasing it. As to
                                the experience of Iowa, it was not a ten per cent, interest law that
                                caused its financial difficulties, but other causes. He had been
                                written to by men who are not capitalists, to use every exertion to
                                change the present law. 

                             Mr. BUNDY. In order that every gentleman desirous of debate may have
                                an opportunity, he moved that the report be laid on the table, and
                                its further consideration made the special order for Thursday of
                                next week, at 10 o'clock.

                            Mr. NEBEKER suggested that the bills on the subject be made the order
                                at the same time.

                            Mr. BUNDY could not say that, because they were not here.

                            Mr. McLEAN saw no propriety in any extended discussion of this
                                question. There were good arguments on both sides. At least one week
                                of time was consumed ineffectually on this subject at each of the
                                two last sessions. The change of the law, he thought, could not be
                                made. He was willing to make it the special order, but expected no
                                result.

                            Mr. HEFFREN understood the motion to lay on the table and make the
                                special order.

                            Mr. Bundy's motion was agreed to, and the subject was made the
                                special order for Thursday of next week.

                            Mr. LEE, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Heffren's bill [65,] to
                                repeal the act touching gaming contracts, with a recommendation that
                                the same be indefinitely postponed.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. That was another of the laws that was violated every
                                day.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. It was true the Supreme Court had decided that the
                                money could not be recovered from the winning party after it has
                                been put over by the stake-holders. It refers to betting on games.
                                The argument that the law was not respected, would be just as good
                                against any law.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. McCLURG, from the same committee, returned the resolution
                                requiring railroad association in this State to employ no engineer
                                who cannot produce a certificate of qualifications, with a
                                recommendation of indefinite postponement.

                            The report was concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            EXTRA SERVICES OF SHERIFFS AND CLERKS.

                            Mr. McLEAN, from the Committee on Organization of Courts of
                                    Justice, returned Mr. Neheker'e bill [8] providing for
                                allowance of compensation to clerks of the Circuit and Common Pleas
                                Courts, and sheriffs for extra services, recommending passage.

                            Mr. NEBEKER explained that this bill was to restore the act of 1852,
                                in relation to fees for extra services of sheriffs and clerks. The
                                act of 1855 left such compensation to the commissioners. This bill
                                will give fees to the clerks and sheriffs in all State cases where
                                the State loses. This was a remedy which this House would never
                                agree to in specific cases. It was to restore the act of 1852, an
                                act which limited the extra pay to those officers. But in 1855, it
                                was so changed that a "reasonable fee," in the discretion of the
                                County Commissioners, was allowed, instead of a fixed sum. The
                                consequence of this change was that, in Vermillion county, the
                                demand of the Clerk for extra services was for $5,600. But it was
                                resisted, and he came down step by step to $250. A reasonable
                                allowance was no doubt fair in itself, but then similar regular
                                services are made a standard by which to determine what is
                                reasonable, and this would operate prejudicially to the interests of
                                the people. To remedy this defect in the law of 1855, he had
                                introduced an act at the last session, limiting the pay to $200 and
                                the bill had passed the House with but one voting against it, and
                                through the Senate with but two voting against it. It was not
                                vetoed, and yet it was not on the statute book of the last session.
                                How it was lost, he could not tell. But to remedy the evil of the
                                law of 1855, he had introduced the bill reported back by the
                                Committee. He gave examples to illustrate the justice of the bill.
                                The committee reporting were opposed to the bill, till he furnished
                                the facts.

                            Mr. HEFFREN looked upon the bill as a proposition to allow the
                                Sheriff to put his hands deep into the county treasury. It was
                                resolved by a convention of Sheriffs in this city lately that each
                                one of them would see his representative about this bill. The law
                                now admitted of $100 a year extra compensation, when voted by the
                                commissioners, where the annual compensation does not exceed $1000.
                                He had been informed of cases of abuse under the law of 1852, now
                                proposed to be revived. One man had drawn $1600, another $1800,
                                &c., for extra compensation.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. The bill provides that they can not have over $100 a
                                year for extra services. 

                            Mr. JENKINSON. The gentleman from Warren was correct, and the
                                gentleman from Washington was wrong. It was the act of 1855 that
                                opened the door for abuse.

                            Mr. EDSON understood the bill to put the limitation of compensation
                                to $100. 

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The gentleman from Warren made a different
                                explanation.

                            Mr. BUNDY read the provision of the act of 1855 The object of the
                                bill was to limit the allowance for extra services to $100. That  was a reasonable amount, and
                                he hoped the bill would pass.

                            Mr. EDSON. Were the extra services to be paid for at the same rate as
                                other official services?

                            Mr. McLEAN. $100 was to be in full for all services.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. They have to itemize the account, but they can receive
                                no more than $100 a year for extra services.

                            Mr. EDSON. It includes clerks. His county commissioners had been in
                                the habit of allowing $10 a quarter to the sheriff for extra
                                service. He thought the bill right, but should propose to amend so
                                as to allow the same for extra-official as for ordinary services.
                                The commissioners may allow less, and the bill should be guarded
                                against cutting down a fair compensation, &c.

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to refer the bill to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary. The first section says they shall receive
                                but the $100. That it shall be for services for which the law
                                prescribes no fee. He was afraid of the second section, that it
                                would be open to the abuses under the act of 1855.

                            Mr. NEBEKER explained further.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The specific fees were now fixed in the act of 1855, and
                                this bill gives them $100 in addition.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. It was the same bill he introduced at the last session,
                                which was entitled "An act to repeal the act of 1855, and restore
                                the latter clause of the 20th section of the act of 1852," and in
                                the same shape of that bill, except that that bill was amended so
                                that the sheriff might have $200 a year for extra service.

                            Mr. JENKINSON thought the terms of the bill might be ambiguous, and
                                it had better go to the Committee.

                            Mr. EDSON proposed to amend by adding appropriately these words:
                                "Said officers to be paid for such extra-official services at the
                                same rates as prescribed by law."The bill and proposed amendment
                                were referred to the Committee on the
                                Judiciary.

                            Mr. ORR, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Black's bill [76,] to amend
                                section 1 of the act of March 5, 1855, to authorize county recorders
                                and surveyors to issue fee bills; recommending its passage.

                            Mr. O. said the only change was in allowing fee bills to their
                                predecessors.

                            Mr. FISHER said a bill was carefully prepared, and would shortly be
                                submitted, to remodel the law regulating county surveyors, and he
                                thought that these propositions should be considered together by the
                                same Committee.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. MOORMAN, from the Committe on Agriculture,
                                returned Mr. Black's bill [46,] supplemental to the act regarding
                                estrays articles adrift, approved June 16, 1852, with the expression
                                of opinion that further legislation on this subject is unnecessary.
                                The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. THOMPSON, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned the bill [64] in relation to fencing railroads, and stock
                                killed on railroad routes, recommending passage.

                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, it was referred to the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary.

                            On motion by Mr. BUNDY, (the order of business being suspended for
                                the purpose,) the Senate joint resolution in relation to the pending
                                Federal difficulties, was taken up and ordered to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen. 

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE REVENUE.

                            On motion by Mr. PROSSER, (the order of business being again
                                suspended,) the Senate joint resolution, directing the Treasurer of
                                State to issue his circular to the several county treasurers,
                                directing them to send up the State revenue in their hands by the
                                10th February, was taken up.

                            Mr. P. said, in his judgment, this was the best proposition to raise
                                money, and he thought it might yield $60,000 or $70,000 at once.

                            Mr. PARRETT moved that the House concur.

                            Mr. BRANHAM would say that there is already such a law on the statute
                                book, but unfortunately there is no penalty attached to it. Before
                                the Committee on Ways and Means reported the bill
                                providing for borrowing money, they made inquiry of the Auditor and
                                Treasurer, and satisfied themselves that no money could be go? here
                                in time by a call on the county treasurers. Almost all the money in
                                the hands of these treasurers was loaned out till the third Monday
                                in March. Pass this, and in the first place you will not get any
                                money, and in the second place, if you do, you will not get it in
                                time. We shall be obliged to pass some law for the replenishment of
                                the Treasury, or we shall be obliged to stop. The system under which
                                we have been doing business had made a custom which was equal to a
                                law; and under that custom, about all the revenue of the State in
                                the hands of the Treasurers was now out on loans till the time the
                                law requires, them to sottle with the State Treasurer. The existing
                                law authorizes the State Treasurer to call on the county treasurers
                                whenever he needs money. But the county officers will make as much
                                as they can out of it while it is in their hands. Some of this money
                                had been loaned out in this town till April. We have been, for a
                                long series of years, taxing the people for money, for the benefit
                                of the men who handle it. The Warden of the State Prison had told
                                him that he had not money to buy provisions; and the Treasury here
                                was empty. This joint resolution provides no penalty. Then how much
                                stronger or more effectual would it be than the law already on the
                                statute book ? None at all. If they disregard the one, they will
                                disregard the other. 
                            

                            Mr. DOBBINS. It might be amended so that if they neglect or refuse to
                                respond, they shall not be entitled to their fees. That was,
                                perhaps, the most and the least that the Legislature ought to do in
                                the case.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. A penalty might work a hardship, for a county treasurer
                                could not well tell how much was in his hands till he came to
                                settle.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. It was only a joint resolution, and could not have a
                                penalty.

                            Mr. PACKARD. It might work hardship in cases where the revenue had
                                been put into speculations in hogs.

                            Mr. BUNDY. The passage of this resolution would avail nothing. The
                                revenue in the hands of the county treasurers was loaned out to
                                their friends for banking purposes, or deposited for interest,
                                &c.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. His county treasurer was not in the habit of loaning out
                                the revenue. He kept it in his office; and a thief came along lately
                                and stole about $2,600 of it.

                            Mr. BUNDY. It was a general rule. There might be exceptions, of
                                course.

                            Mr. PROSSER was in favor of doing something to compel the revenue to
                                come in. It was not a good proposition to borrow from the Sinking
                                Fund, which, under the Constitution, was sacred to the schools. He
                                was glad it had failed. He knew we could get some money under this
                                resolution, and it could not, do any harm.

                            Mr. EDSON concurred with Mr. Branham that the passage of this
                                resolution would do little good. In his region the people had not
                                paid their taxes; and he apprehended there would be but little
                                revenue, till the very last day of payment in March. He had voted
                                against borrowing from the school fund. He did not know a better
                                place to apply for this loan than the Bank of the State.

                            Mr. PARRETT expressed his astonishment to hear gentlemen make such
                                statements-that the revenue of the State was in hogs, used for
                                banking purposes, and stolen. The treasurers, in his region, would
                                not lend out the revenue. If such was the case that the money of the
                                State was loaned out-to the Bank of the State, that never
                                accommodated anybody but speculators and railroad men, it was time
                                this resolution was passed. Should the revenue of the State go to
                                Toledo, Chicago and elsewhere,, whilst we were here unable to pay
                                our board? 

                            Mr. PACKARD was in favor of the resolution, with a penalty.

                            Mr. ATKISSON said his county treasurer was at all times ready to come
                                up to the time. He was in favor of the resolution.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. The Senate had not yet defeated the bill sent there. He
                                indicated that a bill with the needed penalties would be introudced
                                here soon; and that the loan proposed in the Ways and Means bill in
                                the Senate could not affect the distribution of the school
                                money.

                            Mr. BLACK and Mr. McCLURG stated that their county treasurers would
                                respond to the proposed Circular, and they were in favor of the
                                resolution.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, made a similar statement with regard to
                                Jacob Snyder the long-trusted and reliable Treasurer of his
                                county.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and there was a
                                second.

                            The resolution was adopted by-yeas 61 nays 33.

                            
                                
                                    
                                         YEAS-Messrs. Anderson, Atkisson,
                                            Black, Boydston Brett, Brucker, Cason, Collins of
                                            Whitley, Combs,' Cooprider, Grain, Dashiel, Davis,
                                            Dobbins, Edson, Epperson, Feagler, Ferguson, Fleming,
                                            Ford, Gifford, Gore, Haworth, Hayes, Holcomb, Hopkins,
                                            Horton, Howard, Hudson, Jones of Tippecanoe, Jones of
                                            Wayne, Kendrick, Kitchen, Knowlton, Lods, Lane, Lee,
                                            Lightner, McClurg, McLean, Moss, Mutz, Orr, Packard,
                                            Parrett, Prosser, Prow Piagan, Bobbins, Roberts, Sloan,
                                            Smith of Bartholomew' Smith of Miami, Stevenson,
                                            Stotsenberg, Trier, Underwood, Warrum Wells, Williams,
                                            and Woodhull,-61.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Bingham, Branham, Bryan,
                                            Bundy, Burgess, Cameron, Campbell, Collins of Adams,
                                            Fisher, Fordyce, Gresham, Hall, Harvey, Heffren,
                                            Henricks, Jenkinson Jones of Vermillion, Moody, Moorman,
                                            Nebeker, Newman, Owens, Pitts, Polk, Randall, Sherman,
                                            Thomas Thompson, Turner, Wilson, Woodruff, Woods, and
                                            Mr' Speaker-33. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            


                             On motion by Mr. CAMERON, (the order of business being suspended for
                                the purpose,) the House took up the consideration of his order to
                                suspend the rule for adjournment till the 10th of February, so as to
                                require but one session a day.

                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, it was laid on the table.

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, from the Select Committee thereon, reported
                                his bill [51] to fix the times of the Circuit Court in the Eighth
                                Circuit, recommending its passage,

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE REVENUE AGAIN.

                            Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe, moved to reconsider the vote just taken,
                                concurring in tho Senate joint resolution to call on the county
                                treasurers for the State revenue.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN (Mr. Edson in the chair,) thought that the joint
                                resolution had been concurred in without a proper estimate of its
                                bearings on the rights of the House of Representatives. By the
                                provisions of the State Constitution, all revenue bills come
                                properly under the jurisdiction of our Committee on Ways
                                    and Means. They tendered to the Senate a bill for the
                                purpose of raising money; and the Senate, instead of rejecting it,
                                had laid it on the table, and sent back this proposition to raise
                                money in a different way. One reason why he desired this
                                reconsideration was, that he did not want to see the House pass any
                                proposition tending to reflect on the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means. And he thought that the House should not, under
                                any circumstances, resign prerogatives conferred by the
                                Constitution. The Senate, instead of  concurring in the House bill, presents
                                its own propositionthus directly arrogating to itself the right to
                                originate a money bill.

                            Mr. PROSSER denied that it was either a proposition to raise money or
                                to reflect on the Committee on Ways and Means. It
                                was to get money out of hands where it was diverted from its
                                legitimate purpose. He moved to lay the motion to reconsider on the
                                table.

                            The motion was rejected.

                            Mr. HEFFREN raised the "point, that this resolution to raise revenue,
                                not originating here, was not properly before the House.

                            The SPEAKER. The question is still on the motion to reconsider.

                            Mr. PARRETT was opposed to reconsideration. It was not a proposition
                                to raise revenue but to notify officers that they had complied with
                                the law. It was to wake up the State Treasurer to his duty under the
                                law. 

                            Mr. FISHER. The Governor had stated that the treasurer had made his
                                call; but, there being no penalty, the call was disregarded.

                            Mr. PARRETT thought not. He cared nothing about the question of
                                credit for originating the proposition.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. The county treasurers had not responded, because there
                                was no penalty. The resolution would operate as a deception. It
                                would postpone action. It would do no good. He hoped the motion
                                would prevail.

                            Mr. FISHER felt assured that it would not only do no good, but harm,
                                by preventing action that would be effectual.

                            On motion by Mr. BUNDY, the House took a recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. EDSON thought we were too much in the habit of re-consideration.
                                True, it was right and proper to re-consider where there has been a
                                mistake; but he saw none in this case, nor any reflection on the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means, or the House. It
                                would not cut off the power of further legislation for needed
                                revenue. It merely required the Treasurer of State to call for the
                                revenue on the 10th of February. He believed the county treasurers
                                would respond. There might not be very much revenue in their hands,
                                but he thought there would be found enough for all purposes.

                            Mr. DOBBINS did not consider the Senate's action as reflecting at all
                                on the House, or on the Committee of Ways and
                                    Means. Neither was it a measure to raise revenue, but
                                its effect wonld he to wake up the treasurers to a sense of their
                                duty. This was not the only means of raising money, and the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means should go on and
                                submit another bill.

                            Mr. WOODHULL was opposed to re-consideration. This was a resolution
                                to enforce a law which gentlemen tell us is disregarded. Then if we
                                re-consider; would it not give greater impunity for disregarding the
                                law?

                            Mr. MCCLURG did not understand that this was the only means of
                                replenishing the treasury. If it did no good, it could do no harm.
                                It seemed to him important to indicate to the county treasurers that
                                they should be ready at the time to respond to a call for the
                                revenue.

                            Mr. FISHER did not see any reflection here on the Committee
                                    on Ways and Means. But it would be improper for the
                                Committee to introduce another bill to borrow money before the
                                Senate have finally voted on the one al ready passed. He showed the
                                urgency for money. The treasuries were almost empty all over the
                                State. He hoped the resolution would be re-considered, if we could
                                first devise means for replenishing the treasury. He thought,
                                perhaps if we refuse to pass this resolution, it would urge the
                                Senate's action on the bill of the House, to pass it, or refuse to
                                pass. 

                            Mr. JENKINSON had changed his mind. He should vole against
                                re-considering. His treasurer, when he was asked for $1,000, had
                                sent up $2,000.

                            Mr. PROSSER. The delinquent taxes had not been sent up.

                            Mr. FISHER. The Committee on Ways and Means were
                                about ready to report a bill providing a penalty against delinquent
                                treasurers.

                            Mr. PROSSER did not know how the finances were in his county; but if
                                they had not the money, they had the staple of hoop-poles, and that
                                would bring it. He desired the treasurers to live up to the law. He
                                knew that the county treasurers never did send up the revenue till
                                the State Treasurer's circular came. He had heard no valid argument
                                against this resolution. He was utterly opposed to borrowing from
                                the Sinking Fund, but he might be compelled tc vote for it as a last
                                resort. We should not stultify ourselves by borrowing money, whilst
                                the State revenue lies idle in the county treasurers' hands.

                            Mr. ORR. If the treasurer of Delaware county has any revenue in his
                                hands, he will promptly respond. Was the Treasury now empty?

                            The SPEAKER. The drafts for the pay of members had not been honored.
                                That was a pretty good indication of the condition of the
                                Treasury.

                            Mr. ORR. If the county treasurers had been called on and failed what
                                could be expected from a second call ? He would, however, vote to
                                reconsider.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, had not changed his mind with respect to
                                the treasurer of his county. Pie would be ready to respond at any
                                time. He had a bill requiring the county treasurers to make report
                                to the State Treasurer every month from December till April. 
                            

                            Mr. NEBEKER demanded the previous question.

                            There was a second, and under its operation the vote adopting the
                                resolution was reconsidered.

                            The SPEAKER stated his information that the resolution had been
                                returned to the Senate.

                            On motion of Mr. FISHER, it was ordered that the Clerk ask for its
                                return. 


                            
                                VISIT FROM THE PRESIDENT ELECT.

                                Mr. CAMERON, from the Select Committee on that subject, reported
                                    progess, correspondence and recomendation for arrangements for
                                    the reception of the President elect with suitable honors, on
                                    the 12 day of February.

                                The report was concurred in. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW BILLS.

                                Bills of the following captions were introduced and passed to the
                                    second reading:

                                By Mr. MCLEAN : (138) To repeal the Act of March 1, 1859,
                                    amendatory of the general city corporation law, and to restore
                                    the act of March 9, 1857.

                                By Mr. JENKINSON: (139) To enlarge the legal capacity of married
                                    women whose husbands are insane, and to enable them to make
                                    contracts as though they were not married.

                                By Mr. SHERMAN: (140) To authorize the President of the Sinking
                                    Fund Board to make deeds and certify mortgages in certain
                                    cages.

                                By Mr. ANDERSON: (141) To amend the 6th and 20th sections of the
                                    supervisor's act of March 5, 1859.

                                By Mr. EDSON : (142) To amend section 51 of the misdemeanor act
                                    of June 14, 1852.

                                By Mr. BUNDY. (143) To repeal the 9th section of the act of March
                                    2, 1852, regulating fees and salaries.

                                By Mr. KNOWLTON: [144] To amend sec. 94 of the Assessment
                                    act.

                                By Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew: [145] To amend the 33d section of
                                    the Assessment act of June 21, 1852.

                                By Mr. HEFFREN: [146] Supplemental to the Militia act, of June
                                    14,1852, repealing secs. 3 to 20, and for a more perfect
                                    organization of the militia.

                                Mr. CAMERON made an ineffectual motion to read this bill by
                                    title, under a dispensation.

                                By Mr. McLEAN: [147] To amend section 68 of the general city
                                    corporation law.

                                By Mr. PARRETT: [148] Limiting the time within which prosecutions
                                    for crimes and misdemeanors may be commenced, and repealing all
                                    laws in conflict therewith.

                                By Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe: [149] Providing for the election of
                                    a Surveyor General for the State of Indiana, and providing
                                    certain duties.

                                By Mr. JONES, of T.: [150] Providing for the election of County
                                    Surveyors, and prescribing their duties and fees, and providing
                                    for appeals.

                                By Mr. PROSSER: [151] To create the 14th Judicial Circuit.

                                By Mr. COLLINS, of Whitley: [152] amend section 19 of the act of
                                    March 5, 1859, fixing the times of holding the Common Courts,
                                    &c.

                                By Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew: [153] To establish the second
                                    Judicial Circuit, and fix the times and terms of the Courts
                                    therein.

                                By Mr. BURGESS: [154] To amend the act of May 29, 1852,
                                    prescribing the powers and duties of Justices of the Peace in
                                    State prosecutions.

                                By Mr. UNDERWOOD: [155] Fixing the times fog holding the Circuit
                                    Court in the 12th Circuit, regulating the length of the terms
                                    thereof, and repealing all laws in conflict therewith.

                                By Mr. PARRETT: [156] Providing for the salaries and fees in the
                                    District and Common Pleas Courts, and repealing all former laws
                                    relating thereto.

                                By Mr. BLACK: [157] To amend so much of the act for equalizing
                                    appraisements for taxation as authorizes a State Board of
                                    Equalization.

                                By Mr. POLK: [158] To amend the 7th sec. of the act regulating
                                    the fees of officers, ap. proved March 2, 1855.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.

                        
                            THURSDAY, January 31,1861.
                        

                        Mr. NEWCOMB, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                            his bill [S. 5]-described on page 13 of the BREVIER REPORTS-recommending
                            passage.

                        Mr. SHOEMAKER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                Business, returned a resolution asking a change of the law
                            making a transfer of deeds before their record: recommending legislation
                            inexpedient.

                        Which reports were concurred in. 

                        
                            DISTRIBUTION OF THE SCHOOL FUND.

                            Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, directing the Committee on
                                    Education to report an amendment to the school law
                                requiring township trustees to make an annual equal distribution of
                                the surplus school fund after the winter schools, for the purpose of
                                carrying on a summer school.

                            Mr. M. said the object of the resolution was to make some provision
                                by which the small children of the State could derive some benefit
                                from the school fund.

                            Mr. MILLER, as chairman of the Committee, hoped an imperative
                                resolution would not be directed to that Committee, as the common
                                school system was now undergoing a complete revision in the hands of
                                the Committee, and such a resolution would embarrass their
                                action.

                            Mr. SHIELDS objected to the manner of distribution proposed in the
                                resolution-he desired pro rata distribution. 

                            

                            Mr. MURRAY insisted that the pro rata system of distribution is
                                unconstitutional; and desired this to be a test question before the
                                Senate.

                            Mr. JOHNSON thought the resolution was of no practical utility.

                            [A message from the Governor was received, transmitting resolutions
                                passed by the Wisconsin Legislature, pledging co-operation in the
                                defence and preservation of the Union.]

                            On motion of Mr. HAMILTON, the resolution was changed to one of
                                inquiry.

                            The resolution, as amended was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FOURTH OF FEBRUARY CONVENTION.

                            Mr. LOMAX offered a resolution, instructing the Committee on
                                    Federal Relations to report at once a joint resolution
                                providing for the appointment of Commissioners to the Border States
                                Convention.

                            Mr. ANTHONY raised a point of order, that the resolution should go to
                                the Committee on Federal Relations, under the
                                rule, without debate.

                            After remarks by several Senators-

                            The PRESIDENT [Mr. Mellett in the Chair] so decided.

                            Mr. WOLFE appealed from the decision.

                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the appeal was laid on the table by yeas 26,
                                nays 19.

                            Mr. COBB offered a resolution, excusing members of the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations from serving
                                in the Senate until they make out their report in accordance with
                                the resolution introduced by the Senator from Orange, [Mr.
                                Lomax.]

                            The PRESIDENT. The Senate has taken no action upon the resolution of
                                the Senator from Orange, and therefore I hold the resolution to be
                                out of order.

                            Mr. COBB withdrew his resolution. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE DEBT AND STATE AGENT.

                            Mr. BEESON offered a resolution, which was adopted, requesting the
                                State Treasurer to report the condition of the $104,052 37 suspended
                                debt, also the $160,000 in the hands of the State Agent, and by what
                                law it was put in his hands. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WABASH COMMON PLEAS.

                            Mr. CONNER introduced a bill [97] changing the time of holding Common
                                Pleas Court in Wabash county, which was passed the first reading;
                                rules suspended-yeas 44, nays 0- read the second time by title only;
                                on his motion read the third time and finally passed by yeas 44,
                                nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.

                            Mr. COBB offered a resolution excusing the Committee on
                                    Federal Relations from serving in the Senate until
                                they can have time to consider the matters heretofore referred to
                                them.

                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY the resolution was laid on the table-yeas 28,
                                nays 16. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INTEREST ON SINKING FUND LOANS.

                            Mr. CRAVENS offered a resolution directing the Committee on
                                    Education to inquire into the expediency of providing
                                by law for the annual distribution of interest received on loans by
                                the Sinking Fund, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SESSION HOURS AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON offered a resolution providing for but one session per
                                dayfrom 9 till 1 o'clock.

                            Mr. BLAIR offered a resolution changing the daily order of
                                business.

                            Which lie on the table for one day. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COURTS IN THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

                            Mr. CRAVEN, from the select committee thereon, returned bill [S. 74,]
                                with an amendment recommending passage. On his motion the rules were
                                suspended, the bill read the third time, and finally passed by yeaa
                                44, nays 0.

                            Mr. CULVER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Miller's bill [S. 53,]
                                recommending that it lie on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. STEELE made an ineffectual motion to suspend the order of
                                business far the purpose of taking up the loan bill.

                            On motion by Mr. STEELE the House message requesting a return of the
                                joint resolution [S. 9] was taken up.

                            Mr. ANTHONY moved to accede to the request.

                            After remarks thereon by several Senators-

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            And then came the recess till 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            A message from the House announced the passage by that body of a
                                joint resolution, [H. R. 29] authorizing the Governor to appoint
                                five Commissioners to the Border States Convention of the 4th
                                prox.

                            [The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a communication from the
                                President of the Board of Trustees of the Indiana University in
                                answer to a Senate resolution of the 24th inst., relating to the
                                condition of the University funds, which was read, laid on the
                                table, and 100 copies ordered printed by consent.]

                            [A call of the Senate revealed the fact, that 42 members were
                                present. Three absentees were sent for, and when they appeared, made
                                humorous excuses, which were received by the Senate.]

                            The joint rssolution [H. R. 29] authorizing Commissioners to
                                Washington, being read-

                            Mr. COBB moved to amend by striking out all that relates to the
                                appointment by the Governor, and inserting the names of Thomas A.
                                Hendricks, Cyrus L. Dunham, Henry S. Lane,, Caleb B. Smith and Wm.
                                T. Otto.

                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, this amendment was laid on the table-yeas
                                27, nays 18.

                            Mr. ANTHONY made an ineffectual demand for the previous question.

                            Mr. WOLFE moved to amend by striking out all that part which trammels
                                the action of  the
                                Commissioners and by providing that their appointment shall be made
                                by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

                            On motion by Mr MURRAY, the amendments were laid on the table-yeas
                                27, nays 19.

                            Mr. COBB offered an amendment, submitting to the people on February
                                22d, the approval or rejection of the Crittenden proposition, as a
                                direction for the action of these Commissioners.

                            The PRESIDENT. As a whole, the amendment is not in order.

                            Mr. MURRAY made an ineffectual demand for the previous question.

                            Mr. RAY offered an amendment, declaring the Crittenden proposition a
                                fair basis for the action of these Commissioners.

                            On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the amendments were laid on the table-yeas
                                26, nays 19-a party vote.

                            Mr. President: In explaining the vote I am about to give, it is,
                                perhaps, unncessary for me to say either to the Senate or the people
                                I have the honor to represent, that I am utterly opposed to offering
                                any compromise to the slave-holding States contemplating an
                                amendment to the Constitution of the United States for the
                                recognition of extension or slavery. While I hold a seat on this
                                floor, I will never vote in favor of taking one step in that
                                direction. By the restraints thrown around the action of this
                                commission, they cannot commit the State of Indiana or the
                                Republican party to any such proposition. The appointment of this
                                commission, then, is a mere matter of policy. Though my judgment is
                                opposed to it, as being of no practical utility, yet I acquiesce in
                                it in obedience to the wishes of a majority of my political
                                associates, and the earnest entreaties of Democratic Senators. I
                                therefore vote in the affirmative. 

                            Mr. WOLFE. I shall vote for the resolutions but I shall do it
                                reluctantly for the reason that trammeled as those Commissioners
                                will be they cannot effect much good. Indeed I am afraid they will
                                not be permitted to act at all. My fears are that the number of
                                States required by these resolutions will not be there. I do not do
                                it because I myself want any change in the Constitution nor because
                                I believe the State of Indiana needs any change, but simply because
                                I believe such an act will be productive of good. I say further in
                                voting for these resolutions that I do it because I believe it is
                                determined that no other resolutions in any other shape will be
                                permitted to be passed, therefore I take them as defective as I
                                think they are rather than have no Commissioners appointed at
                                all.

                            Mr. RAY gave notice that a minority here would enter their formal
                                protest against these resolutions.

                            Mr. JONES. I shall vote for these resolutions because I know the
                                public mind I represent is deeply agitated on this subject and any
                                steps in the direction of compromise will be hailed with joy; and as
                                nothing now accept, able can be obtained, I shall vote for the
                                resolutions.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to strike out in the resolutions all that relates
                                to disfranchising the Commissioners unless nineteen States are
                                represented in the Convention.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. These Commissioners will be subject to instructions from
                                this Legislature, hence I shall vote for them. There has been a good
                                deal of letting down on the part of my Republican friends in
                                allowing these Commissioners to be appointed, and I think there will
                                be more when we come to sending instructions.

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT. The amendment was laid on the table-yeas
                                26, nays 19.

                            Mr. MARCH. Mr. President, relying upon my own judgment, and listening
                                to the prophetic warnings of instinct, which I have found a safer
                                guide than the deductions of logic whenever my pathway has grown
                                dark I should vote against this resolution. I cannot, however, allow
                                any one to go before me in devotion to the Constitution the Union
                                and in readiness to do anything and everything calculated to hold up
                                their falling pillars, and to sacrifice anything and everything for
                                their preservation except the principles upon which they are
                                founded. But the union of these States was not the work of
                                politicians, nor was it built upon paper. It was the result of
                                necessity, and of strong currents of patriotic and brotherly feeling
                                running north and south, east and west, and which had been generated
                                in the long, dreary struggle of the revolution. These were the
                                necessities of commerce and finance, of international law and
                                foreign intercourse. The necessities remain as strong as ever, but
                                the currents of fraternal feeling have been broken, and jealousies
                                and rivalries excited by the schemes of ambitious demagogues, and
                                the blind servility of party, have taken their place. The meeting of
                                these commissioners may increase the political imbroglio and
                                multiply the points of difference. We also run the hazard in this
                                kind of an outside and irresponsible convention, of having the
                                fundamental principles of the government surrendered and sacrificed.
                                I do not, however, despair of the Union, nor abandon the heretofore
                                cherished hope of our great destiny.

                            I believe that there is yet sufficient centripetal force in the
                                national government, when the laws of its creation,have fair room to
                                work, uninterrupted by an imbecile executive and traitorous Cabinet
                                and corrupt politicians, to draw every wandering star back to its
                                orbit, and restore the system to its original harmony of action.In
                                as much, however, as it is a mere question of policy and not of
                                regard to the feelings of some of my political associates, and to
                                    appease the apparent tenor
                                of our Democratic friends. I shall vote for the resolution. 

                            Mr SHIELDS. A few days since a gentleman has the confidence of the
                                district which I have the honor to represent said to me, say to the
                                Senate of Indiana that two thirds of the Republican party, and he is
                                a Republican, thought the Crittenden proposition was the one that
                                the Republicans of Southern Indiana demand.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. My better judgement is against this proposition, but
                                out of a spirit of harmony to the end that I may act in perfect
                                concert with my associates I have been willing to go with them for
                                this measure. My reasons are divers: one is that it would strengthen
                                the hands of our friends in the South; another is that it will stop
                                a continuous noise on this floor, but the most masterly one of all
                                is it will lick the wind out of Democratic sails.

                            Mr. LINE. I was well pleased to hear the venerable Senator from Parke
                                [Mr. Steele (solo voce) don't call me
                                "venerable,"-laughter] remark that this proposition has come from a
                                republican caucus. I am not going to stand up here and say that
                                proposition comes here covered all over with the slime of a
                                republican caucus, but actuated by honorable and high minded
                                considerations I shall vote for it, although I should vote for it
                                more readily with some other provisions engrafted in it.

                            Mr. DICKINSON. In all my life with scarcely an exception have I ever
                                found the promptings of nature to be a correct monitor. My
                                convictions in this case are that I ought to vote "no." My
                                republican associates, some out of general expediency, some out of
                                privilege, think it their duty to vote "aye." I came here expecting
                                to be governed by my republican associates on all questions of
                                policy but never when they depart from principle. This I regard as a
                                question of policy, but then it grasps directly hold of principle.
                                Viewing, then, that as true, I feel compelled to vote "no" on the
                                proposition and feel that I should fail to do myself or constituents
                                justice if I do otherwise.

                            I vote "no," because I believe: 1st That the appointment of
                                Commissioners unauthorized, and will be futile for any good ; 2d
                                That my constituency are emphatically opposed to the measure, and 3d
                                That the act is the first step to the debauchment and ultimate
                                destruction of our free, glorious and once happy Union and
                                government.

                            Mr. TURNER. I have always held it to be my duty and privilege to
                                co-operate heartily and fully with my republican, friends. I have
                                acted with that party from principle and not from personal motives;
                                and acting in accordance with the dictates of my own judgment and
                                conscience I feel it to be my duty so to do. But in this case I feel
                                as though I was compiled, under the circumstances to vote against
                                this measure, and I confess it is with reluctance I take this
                                course. The appointment of these Commissioners I regard as suicidal
                                to the very principles of the government which we have attempted to
                                foster and uphold. It will result in no good. They will not agree
                                upon any plan that will settle this question. In justice to my own
                                fealings and in justice to the constituency which I nave the honor
                                here freely to represent I must vote "no" on this question.

                            Mr. RAY was sorry to hear from the lips of one Senator after another
                                who gave explanations of votes that his judgment is against the
                                proposition and that it is only to preserve party harmony and in
                                obedience to party dictations that he gives his vote ; and was
                                amazed that higher motives were not prompting them. Mr. R. continued
                                about 25 minutes.

                            Mr. MELLETT. I must be permitted to say my judgment is not in favor
                                of the resolutions ; and in my judgment I am actuated by as
                                patriotic motives, with all due respect to the gentleman as he or
                                any other man; and I must be permited to say that no gentlman upon
                                this floor, in my hearing or in the State of Indiana, in all the
                                relations of life is more willing to yield to a spirit of
                                concilation and compromise than I.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of Mr.
                                Conner's bill [S.97](introduced and finally passed in the Senate
                                this forenoon,)with amendments.]

                            Mr. M. continued for nearly an hour speaking particularly in answer
                                to Mr. Ray.

                            The resolutions were adopted by yeas 43, nay 3viz: Senators Campbell,
                                Dickinson and Turner.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            THURSDAY, January 31, 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG said he had received, by telegraph, instructions to
                                present the memorial of the people of the city of New Albany,
                                requesting the Legislature to respond to the call of the General
                                Assembly of Virginia, by the appointment of commissioners to the
                                Washington convention on the 4th of February."

                            Mr. ROBERTS presented the proceedings of a Union meeting lately held
                                in the town of Aurora, requesting the appointment of commissioners
                                on the part of the State of Indiana, o the Border State convention,
                                to convene at Washington city on the 4th of February.

                            Mr. FERGUSON presented the petition of Uriah Ballard, and others,
                                citizens and taxpayers of Monroe township, Morgan county, asking for
                                the release of John Ballentine, late ownship treasurer, from the
                                repayment of $180, lost by his depositing it in the Savings Bank of
                                Indianapolis.

                            It was referred to the Committee on Claims.

                            Mr. TURNER presented the petition of Wm.  B. Matthews and Thomas Johnson,
                                citizens and residents cf the State of Illinois, asking remuneration
                                for expenses incurred by them ($324 60) in the capture of one S. B.
                                Calhoun, a fugitive from justice from Marion county.It was referred
                                to the Committee on Claims.

                            Mr. HOWARD presented the proceedings of a Union meeting held last
                                Saturday at Charlestown, the county seat of Clark county. He added
                                his own personal gratification in being made the medium of
                                communicating the judgment of the people of his county in favor of
                                some amicable adjustment of our National difficulties, and of the
                                appointment of commissioners to the Washington convention.

                            Mr. CAMERON submitted an amendment to the rules-for one session a
                                day-which lies over one day.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, presented a resolution, which was adopted,
                                that the Judiciary Committee inquire into the
                                expediency of so amending the law, that where suits have been
                                brought, judgment obtained, and execution issued, no other person
                                than the proper officer shall be allowed to receive the amount of
                                the debt, &c. 

                            Mr. ROBERTS presented the petition of A. J. Cotton, which was laid on
                                the table.

                            Mr. JENKINSON presented a letter from John L. Smithmyer, architect,
                                employed by the Select Committee on the Northern State
                                    Prison to measure the work, &c., asking for
                                authority to give him the right to examine all papers, contracts,
                                estimates, drawings, &c., pertaining to said prison, now in the
                                hands of liny of the officers thereof, or in the hands of the
                                officers of State; accompanied with a joint resolution giving him
                                that authority.

                            The joint resolution was adopted.

                            [A message from the Governor here transmitted the report of the
                                commissioner appointed by the last General Assembly to investigate
                                the office of the Agent of State in the city of New York.]

                            Mr. PROSSER submitted an order to limit speech in debate on the
                                expected report of the Committee of Thirteen to
                                ten minutes, which he subsequently withdrew.

                            On motion of Mr. VEATCH, the special order, viz : the consideration
                                of the proposition for five additional bank districts, was
                                postponed.

                            Mr. KENDRICK presented a memorial, embracing the account of George W.
                                Griffith ($575 75) for repairs in the Library, which was referred to
                                the Committee on Claims. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.

                            By Mr. VEATCH: Returning Mr. Branham's bill [1]-embezzlement
                                bill-with verbal amendments, and two additional sect-ions, to the
                                following effect:

                            SEC. 8. That if the Auditor of State draw his warrant on. the
                                treasury when there is no money in the treasury belonging to the
                                particular fund to pay it, in conformity with appropriations made by
                                law, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction if
                                fined not less than $100 nor more than $1000, and imprisoned not
                                less than one month nor more than six months.

                            SEC. 9. That if the Treasurer of State shall use the money of any
                                particular fund for auy other purpose than that for which it has bee
                                set apart and appropriated, he shall be deemed guilty of a
                                misdemeanor, and, upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100
                                nor more than $5000, and imprisoned not less than one month nor more
                                than six months.

                            The amendments were concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, the bill was laid on the table, 300 copies
                                were ordered to be printed, and it was made the special order for
                                Tuesday next at 2 o'clock.

                            By Mr. WOODHULL: Returning Mr. Cason's bill [35] to amend section 238
                                of the practice act, with the expression of opinion by the majority
                                of the Committee, that it be laid on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            By Mr. HEFFREN: Returning Mr. Speaker Allen's bill [13] for refunding
                                license money illegally collected, with amendments, striking out the
                                words, "with interest thereon from the time of payment," and adding
                                a section 1 making it the duty of the commissioners to refund money
                                collected from parties carrying on business in stocks and
                                exchange.

                            The amendment was adopted and the bill ordered to be engrossed.

                            By Mr. EDSON: Returning the bill to amend section 466 of the practice
                                act, and recommending its indefinite postponement. [The bill'was to
                                provide that the sheriff may sell real estate on the premises
                                instead of at the Court House.]

                            By Mr. WOODHULL:. Returning Mr. McClurg's bill [75] to amend section
                                412 of the practice act, and reporting such legislation inexpedient,
                                and that the bill lie on the table.

                            By Mr. HEFFREN : Returning Mr. Moss's bill [21] to amend section 421
                                of the practice act, recommending indefinite postponement.

                            These reports were severally concurred in.

                            By Mr. EDSON , Returning Mr. Williams's bill [2,] declaring it to be
                                a felony to let down fences and destroy cattle guards on the lines
                                of railroads, reporting that the same lie on the table, and a
                                substitute therefor, viz; a bill [159] declaring it to be a
                                misdemeanor to leave open gates, let down fences, or destroy
                                cattle-guards along the lines of railroads, and establishing a
                                penalty therefor.

                            The report was concurred in, and the new bill passed to the second
                                reading.

                            By Mr. CASON: Returning Mr. Black's resolution for defining an
                                assault, and reporting a bill [160] to amend section one of the act
                                with reference to misdemeanors punishable by a justice of the peace,
                                approved June 17, 1852, which was passed to the second reading.

                            By Mr. WOODHULL: Returning Mr. Atkisson's bill [66] to amend section 476 of the practice act, with
                                a recommendation of indefinite postponement.

                            The report was concurred in. 

                            By Mr. VEATCH: Returning Mr. Jenkinson's bill [5] limiting the power
                                of county commissioners in the assessment and collection of taxes,
                                with a majority of the Commitee recommending indefinite
                                postponement.

                            Mr. JENKINSON submitted a minority report insisting that the bill has
                                merits, and if it becomes a law, it will induce economy in site
                                county expendiures, prevent recklessaths, &c.

                            He said that the bill was one of the most important that the House
                                would be called to legislate upon. The county of Allen had levied a
                                county tax, last year, of ninety cents to the $100, and this year of
                                sixty cents, whilst the average of the county taxes in the State was
                                only thirty cents. He had a deep interest in the success of this
                                bill, which limited the amount that could be levied by the county
                                commissioners to fifty cents on the $100. For its passage he was in
                                market, ready to reciprocate any aid that might be given him to pass
                                the bill. Some members had court houses to see to, but these could
                                be built under his law, with some delay. But if the county
                                commissioners are to have no limit imposed on their power to levy
                                taxes, they may take all a person has, and no such power should be
                                granted them. It is said that the proper remedy is with the people,
                                to elect a board of commissioners that reflects their opinions and
                                wishes, but they are often deceived in the persons they may select.
                                Hence these officers should not have the unlimited power conferred
                                upon them. He called upon the friends of economy to give us this
                                bill, and relieve the farmers of this State from paying rent instead
                                of tax, and warned his Republican friends that if it was defeated,
                                there would not be fifty Republicans left in Allen county. The bill
                                had merits, and be wished its consideration to be laid over till
                                Friday of next week.

                            Mr. FISHER suggested that the difficulties in Allen could be relieved
                                by the people electing Republican officers; and he understood that
                                they had taken it in hand and rendered this extraordinary
                                legislation nearly unnecessary, by the election of a Republican
                                county treasurer last October. [Laughter.]

                            Mr VEATCH said that the evil complained of was a local one, and it
                                was not right to tie the hands of all the counties in consequence A
                                majority of the committee were perfectly willing to yield to the
                                gentleman from Allen all they could. But they considered it improper
                                to enact a law that should govern and restrain the whole State
                                merely to suit the views of the people of Allen. If the principle of
                                the bill was right, we ought to take the power of taxation entirely
                                out of the hands of the Board of Commissioners. We ought to have no
                                bounty Commissioners, and repose this power somewhere else. Did he
                                understand the gentleman to say that if we do not pass this bill,
                                there will not be 50 Republicans left in Allen? Then suppose we do
                                not pass it. The Democracy will have the control in Allen county,
                                and certainly they can fix it to suit themselves. Who shall restrain
                                the people? Besides they might have useful purposes to accomplish,
                                as the building of Court Houses; and for such purposes the
                                commissioners should have power to levy sufficient taxes, even as
                                high as $1 on the $100 valuation. The hands of all should not be
                                tied to accommodate the peculiar circumstances in Allen. From this
                                view the committee made their report against the passage of the
                                bill.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. If the bill don't pass, the pledge of Republicans on
                                the stump will not be regarded. He exhorted them to be careful of
                                their pledges.

                            Mr. BUNDY moved to suspend the order of business for the report of
                                the Committee of Thirteen.

                            The motion was agreed to: and thereupon- 

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.

                            Mr. BUNDY from a majority of the Select Committee of
                                    Thirteen, reported back the Senate joint resolution
                                No. 7 on the present condition of National Affairs, without
                                amendment, and a recommendation that the same do pass.

                            The joint resolution was read by the Clerk. [See pages 57 and 58 of
                                these Reports.]

                            Mr. BUNDY, in behalf of a majority of the same Committee, also
                                returned the Virginia resolutions, stating that numerous other
                                matters referred to them, with reference to the preservation of the
                                Union, now before them, would be acted on at an early day, and
                                reporting a new joint resolution [29] rehearsing the call of the
                                State of Virginia, and other States, to unite in an earnest effort
                                to adjust the present unhappy Federal controversy in the same spirit
                                in which the Constitution of the United States was formed, in. a
                                Convention of Commissioners from all the States to be held in the
                                City of Washington on the 4th day of February, if it be possible to
                                agree upon some plan of adjustment: and whereas, some States have
                                responded to this call; therefore resolved, &c., That we accept
                                the invitation of the State of Virginia in a spirit of fraternal
                                feeling; and the Governor of this State is empowered to appoint five
                                Commissioners to meet the Commissioners appointed by other States,
                                &c. But restraining said Commissioners from acting so as to bind
                                the State of Indiana, till nineteen other of the States shall have
                                accredited their Commissioners to said Convention. That while we are
                                not prepared to assent to the terms proposed by the State of
                                Virginia, and have entire confidence that the Constitution of the
                                United States contains ample provisions within itself for the
                                correction of the evils complained of; still we are disposed to
                                respect the pacific desire of the State of Virginia, and other
                                States, evinced hy sending
                                their Commissioners to the proposed Convention. But, as the time
                                fixed is so near at hand that it must be impossible for all the
                                States to be represented, it is expected that the Commissioners on
                                behalf of this State will request the Convention to adjourn and give
                                time for the delegations. That the Governor transmit copies,
                                &c.

                            Mr. HEFFREN, in behalf of the minority of said Committee, submitted
                                the following : 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Mr. SPEAKER
                                        
                                        : The undersigned, the minority of the Select
                                                Committee of Thirteen, to whom was
                                            referred the resolution proposing that this House adopt
                                            as their sentiments the proposition offered in the
                                            United States Senate by the Hon. John J. Crittenden, and
                                            to whom was referred the various resolutions of the
                                            House upon Federal Affairs, would report the following
                                            as their views upon the same:

                                        They would say, without intending to cast any reflection
                                            upon the presiding officer of this House in the
                                            formation of said committee, that, in their opinion,
                                            justice, as well as all parliamentary usage and law,
                                            would say that the friends of the original proposition
                                            should have a majority upon the committee, and more
                                            especially when the original proposition or resolution
                                            was the Crittenden amendments. Afterward, a multitude of
                                            propositions and resolves were referred to said
                                            committee, upon which the committee once made a
                                            unanimous report, which was afterward recommitted. Upon
                                            all of the various propositions we will not speak in
                                            detail; but, being moved by an imperative sense of duty
                                            to our common country, we ask prompt action upon some
                                            scheme of adjustment that will preserve the Federal
                                            Union and restore tranquility to the country.
                                            Entertaining the most profound convictions of the
                                            blessings, as well as the threatened dangers of the
                                            Union, they are willing to make great sacrifices to
                                            perpetuate the one and avert the other.

                                        At a time like this, when the foundations of the National
                                            Government are shaken, and its pillars are crumbling
                                            away, it is the solemn duty of every patriot of the land
                                            to discard all specious fallacies in regard to
                                            slavery-all blind resentments for supposed
                                            aggressions-all prided sectional animosities, and all
                                            partisan criminalities, and forgetting the mutual
                                            provocations of the past, bring all offensive doctrines
                                            and platforms all abstract theories and barren creeds-as
                                            sacrifices upon the altar of a common country.

                                        The undersigned, entertaining these views, have been and
                                            now are willing to sacrifice their former political
                                            ideas, notions and opinions upon the altar of their
                                            country, for the sake of preserving the heritage our
                                            fathers left us. They are pained to witness the present
                                            excited and alarming state of the public mind, yet
                                            common justice seems to require that we should revert to
                                            the history of the past and see what it is that has
                                            brought our nation to the verge of dissolution. In doing
                                            so we must say that the continued agitation in Congress,
                                            the State Legislatures, and before the people by
                                            fanatical vagabonds, about the present alarming
                                            condition of affairs, anti-slavery lecturers, orators
                                            and stump speakers have, it seems to us, done all in
                                            their power to aid and assist in the great drama, and
                                            even professed ministers of God, men who hypocritically
                                            pretend to be ambassadors of the Most High, have
                                            descended, from their lofty position and prostituted
                                            their talents and the pulpit, soild the robes of
                                            religion, disgraced decency and outraged morality, by
                                            their infamous and hellish harangues to aid in the
                                            unholy and unchristian cause of bringing about
                                            contention and strife. Their whole theme has been of the
                                            wrongs another race upon whose very form the God
                                            creation has stamped the impress of inferiority that of
                                            the whites, and by their lectures, speech and sermons
                                            have pertinaciously continued the crusade until we now
                                            stand, as it were, upon the slumbering volcano with its
                                            hot, boiling lava rolling and thundering beneath our
                                            feet, and wanting but a breath to overwhelm all in a
                                            common ruin. Such is the terrible condition of our
                                            country to-day, and to this has she been brought by
                                            demagogues and fanatics until a portion of the people of
                                            the Union seek to preserve the rights by secession. Star
                                            after star has fallen in quick succession from the
                                            national firmanent and soon more will follow unless the
                                            gaping bleeding wounds of our country are staunched. Can
                                            we even hope for a return to justice by the North? We
                                            fear not. Madness seems to rule the day, the hour;
                                            reason and discretion seem to have fled their seats and
                                            left the impulses and passions of man to run riot. Love
                                            of country seems to be forgotten and patriotism banished
                                            from the hearts of men. Confusion and discord appear on
                                            every hand.

                                        In this condition of our country, in the present
                                            disordered exigencies of the hour, the undersigned
                                            believe that every effort for conciliation should be
                                            exhausted, every offer of compromise duly and fairly
                                            considered and well examined; that we should meet our
                                            brethren of the South as patriot? and lovers of a common
                                            country, who, while sternly and properly protecting
                                            their own rights and liberties, would not infringe upon
                                            ours; that each and all should sacrifice partisan
                                            prejudices and opinions, however much we may dislike so
                                            to do so, for the good of our country, and accept any
                                            offer which is honorable and calculated to save the
                                            country and the liberties of the people, seems to us a
                                            plain duty as well as a patriotic one. In holding these
                                            views the undersigned would accept and respond to the
                                            invitation of Virginia for the appointment of
                                            Commissioners to confer with others at Washington City
                                            on the 4th of next February, and would accept the
                                            propositions known as the Crittenden, border State, or
                                            any other just and honorable scheme of conciliation and
                                            adjustment which will save the Union and forever settle
                                            the slavery question.

                                        They would further say that they believe this Government
                                            "derives its just powers from the consent of the
                                            governed," and that it would become subversive of the
                                            very spirit of liberty and of natural right to attempt,
                                            by the strong arm of Federal power, backed up as it
                                            would be by the army and navy to coerce or compel the
                                            people of any State or States to remain an integral part
                                            of a Government they desire to separate from, and that
                                            we can not view but with serious alarm any attempt upon
                                            the part of the General Government to make vassels and
                                            serfs of the freemen of the country, to do homage to a
                                            great power at the 
                                            point of the sabre or bayonet. If such a course should
                                            be pursued, and be successful, the free citizen of
                                            Indiana would have of his liberties worth the name, and
                                            when a dominant party, placed in upon the very question
                                            which is now disrupting the Government, attempts to
                                            enforce its political creeds and dogmas at the point of
                                            the bayonet and at the cannon's mouth, it becomes every
                                            freeman to say whether he will assist in the hellish
                                            scheme or whether he will stand idly by and see
                                            despotism flourish, or whether he shall take the part
                                            and espouse the cause of those who shoulder their arms
                                            to protect and preserve their rights and liberties. We
                                            believe we will be safe in saying that we speak the
                                            sentiments of more than one hundred thousand of the
                                            freemen of Indiana, that we will not assist in the
                                            scheme, that we will not stand idly by, but remembering
                                            the illustrious examples of their fathers, fight to keep
                                            the fires of equal rights, justice and liberty burning
                                            Yet, desirous as we are of preventing any collision
                                            between the people of any State or States and the
                                            Federal Government, or between the people of the several
                                            States, to avoid the horrors of & civil war with all
                                            its conconimitant train of evils, to avoid the shedding
                                            of blood, the ravaging of villages, the sacking of
                                            cities, and preserve and if possible transmit unimpaired
                                            to our posterrity, the best Government ever established,
                                            maintain our station among the nations of the earth and
                                            still preserve our land and nation as an asylum for the
                                            oppressed of all nations, would report for adoption the
                                            following joint resolution:

                                        Be it resolved, by the General Assembly of
                                                the State of Indiana, That in the opinion of
                                            this General Assembly, commissioners should be appointed
                                            to meet commissioners of other States, on the 4th of
                                            February next, in accordance with the request of the
                                            General Assembly of Virginia, and that Henry S. Lane,
                                            Caleb B. Smith, William T. Otto, Cyrus L. Dunham and
                                            Thomas A. Hendricks be and they are hereby appointed
                                            such commissioners to proceed to Washington City without
                                            delay, to meet the commissioners of other States, to
                                            consult upon the present alarming condition of the
                                            country, and that they report their action to this
                                            General Assembly.

                                        Be it further resolved, That we accept,
                                            as a basis of settlement, the propositions of Hon. John
                                            J. Crittenden, made in the Senate of the United
                                            States.

                                        Be it further resolved, That our
                                            Senators in Congress be instructed, and our
                                            Representatives be requested to use all their influence
                                            to have said propositions accepted by Congress, and that
                                            they do all in their power to have a convention of
                                            delegates to amend the Constitution.

                                        Be it further resolved, That the people
                                            of Indiana should have occasion to express their
                                            opinions upon said propositions at the ballot-box;
                                            therefore, we do recommend the passage of a law, as soon
                                            as possible, to allow the people to vote for or against
                                            such proposition, on the 22d day of February next.

                                        Resolved further, That we are willing
                                            to accept any honorable measures of pacification of tne
                                            present difficulties to save our country, the Union and
                                            the Constitution.

                                        
                                            H. HEFFREN, C. B. KNOWLTON, LEWIS PROSSER, WM.
                                                E. McLEAN, M. JENKINSON.
                                        

                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            The SPEAKER. The Chair is satisfied that no personal reflections
                                could have been intended in the minority report, just read. The
                                Chair recognizes fully the doctrine laid down in the report. The
                                Chair may have misapprehended the object for which the Commiteee was
                                raised. He is of opinion the object was to devise some means by
                                which the present unhappy federal difficulties may be settled within
                                the Constitution; and, with that understanding of the object, he is
                                not conscious of having violated any parliamentary rule in the
                                appointment of the Committee.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG suggested that it was important that immediate action
                                should be had on the second series of resolutions reported by the
                                majority-the joint resolution [29] with respect to the appointment
                                of Commissioners.

                            Mr. VEATCH submitted an order, which was adopted, limiting speech in
                                debate on said resolutions to thirty minutes, and closing the debate
                                next Friday.

                            [Mr. Boydston, Mr. Smith, of Bartholomew, and Mr. Holcomb obtained
                                leave of absence for two days.]

                            On the motion of Mr. STOTSENBERG, the joint resolution [29] was taken
                                up. lie then proposed to concur, with an amendment, inserting after
                                the word "represented," to the following effect: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Whereas, the southernmost States of the Confederacy have
                                            dissolved their connection with the Government of the
                                            United States; and whereas, it is to be feared that
                                            other of the Southern States will shortly take the same
                                            steps, unless some gnaranteee of their rights can be
                                            agreed upon that will meet the approbation of the
                                            conservative masses, and bring back the seceding States
                                            into the Union; and whereas, the plan of adjustment,
                                            proposed by the Hon. John J. Crittenden is known to bs
                                            acceptable to them, and they have been recommended by
                                            numerous Union meetings held in the State of Indiana and
                                            other Northern States; and whereas, the people are the
                                            source of all political power, and it is proper and
                                            right that an expression of the views of the people of
                                            the State of Indiana should he made on the Crittenden
                                            propositions, to serve as a guide for the action of her
                                            commissioners in said convention ; therefore,

                                        Resolved, That, said propositions be
                                            submitted to the people of the State of Indiana at, a
                                            special election to be held on the 22d day of February
                                            next, and that at such election the electors of the
                                            State at large shall proceed to vote either For the
                                            Crittenden Propositions and the substance thereof, or
                                            Against the Crittenden Propositions and the substance
                                            thereof. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG said that so far as the appointment of the
                                Commissioners is concerned, there was no difference as to the
                                propriety of sending them, but there was a great difference as to
                                the instructions to bo given to them. The report of the majority
                                contained  no definite basis of
                                settlement, upon which the compromise was to be made by the
                                Convention of Delegates. The report intimates that the minds of the
                                Committee have not yet been made up on this matter. It leaves
                                untouched that difficult question upon which rested the pacification
                                of the country. In this perilous condition, what better can be done
                                than to refer the whole question to the people of the State ? So far
                                as we have heard from them, and many meetings have been held, they
                                have spoken out in favor of the Crittenden amendments. These contain
                                the only proposition of compromise considered by the people. If
                                their voice is heard from Indiana, it will have a powerful influence
                                in composing the strife between the States.

                            The yeas and nays were demanded and taken thereon, resulting-yeas 38,
                                nays 60-as follows: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        AYES-Messrs. Atkisson, Black, Boydston, Brett, Clark,
                                            Collins, of Huntington, Combs, Dashiel, Davis, Edson,
                                            Fleming, Ford, Gifford, Hayes, Heffren, Holcomb, Horton,
                                            Howard, Jenkinson, Kitchen, Knowlton, Lods, McClurg,
                                            McLean, Moss, Mutz, Owens, Packard, Pitts, Polk,
                                            Prosser, Prow, Robbins, Roberts, Smith, of Bartholomew,
                                            Stevenson, Stotsenberg, Trier, and Warrum-38.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Anderson, Bingham, Branham, Brucker, Bryan,
                                            Bundy, Burgess, Cameron, Campbell, Cason, Collins, of
                                            Adams, Cooprider, Grain, Epperson, Erwin, Feagler,
                                            Ferguson, Fisher, Fordyce, Fraley, Frasier, Gore,
                                            Gresham, Grover, Hall, Harvey, Haworth, Henricks,
                                            Hopkins, Hudson, Kurd, Jones, of Tippecanoe, Jones, of
                                            Vermillion, Jones, of Wayne, Kendrick, Lane, Lee,
                                            Lightner, Moody, Moorman. Nebeker, Newman, Orr, Ragan,
                                            Randall, Sherman, Sloari, Smith, of Miami, Thomas,
                                            Thompson, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Wells, Williams,
                                            Wilson, Woodhull, Woodruff, Woods, and Mr. Speaker-60.
                                        
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            So Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment was rejected.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed again to amend, by striking out the words,
                                "while we are not prepared to accept the terms of settlement
                                proposed by the State of Virginia," and inserting these words, "
                                while we at present express no opinion on the terms," &c.

                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to amend the amendment, by striking out
                                "nineteen States," and inserting "ten States."

                            The SPEAKER decided the latter out of order.

                            Mr. Stotseriberg's amendment was rejected by-yeas 38, nays 60.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend, by taking the appointment of the
                                commissioners from the Governor, and naming them in the resolution,
                                viz.: Henry S. Lane, Caleb B. Smith, Wm. T. Otto, Cyrus L. Dunham
                                and Thomas A. Hendricks, be and they are hereby appointed said
                                Commissioners, and that they report their acts and doings to this
                                General Assembly, and that all that part of the joint resolutions
                                which prevents the Commissioners from acting until nineteen States
                                are represented, be stricken out.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Mr. Speaker, I have but a very few words to say, and
                                shall reserve what further I have to offer, till we come to the
                                discussion of the entire report. While the General Assembly is in
                                session, I see no reason or justice in putting into this joint
                                resoultion a transfer of the power of this into the hand of one man.
                                I for one have been always and will be always opposed the one-man
                                power. When Andrew Jackson was President, we heard a great deal said
                                by the enemies of the Democratic the one-man power. But a change
                                here seems to have come over the spirit of their dreams. While I
                                believe Governor Morton actuated by a desire to do his and
                                especially his party some service in these appointments, I am still
                                unwilling to put this power into his hands. I prefer to appoint by
                                the Legislature a man who has just been elected by about 10,000
                                majority, Governor of the State-a man of whom it has been the pride
                                of the Republican party to follow wherever he dared to lead, and who
                                has been but the other day elected here by Republican votes to the
                                highest position, which by his acknowledged talents he is fitted to
                                adorn. Why is it that Republicans here should be afraid to trust
                                such a man ? Why should gentlemen be afraid to trust William T.
                                Otto, a man of the first order of talents, and who was never
                                suspected of being contaminated with Democracy ? And why should they
                                be afraid to trust that other man whose locks are white with years,
                                and whose brow they are now endeavoring to encircle with the honors
                                of the Secretaryship of the Interior? When men like these are
                                proposd, why is it that you are afraid to send them to Washington in
                                these times of peril, to see if there may not yet be devised some
                                scheme of adjustment and compromise to save the Union. I offer also
                                two Democrats. But rather than there should be a waiver of this
                                principle of appointment, I would beg to add two other Republicans
                                in their places. I would be willing to say, send five Republicans;
                                but, in God's name, give the representatives of the people the right
                                to say who they want to represent them in this most important and
                                responsible mission. Why tarn these appointments over to the hands
                                of one man ? I cast no reflections on the Governor. I have heard
                                imputation! cast upon former Governors because of too much power
                                lodged in their hands. But we have no assurance who he will appoint.
                                Here we recognize the right of the majority which the Republican
                                party have gained at the polls. This amendment offers men of your
                                own choice, distinguished for talent and public service; and I for
                                one am willing to lay aside my Democracy for the time, so far as to
                                be willing to vote for these men. And it will be the first time in
                                my life that I ever voted for a man opposed to my party. And I am
                                willing to add two more. Why then, I repeat, will you not trust
                                yourselves and your own and your country's cause in the hands of
                                your own trusted leaders? Are you afraid of your own shadow? afraid
                                that your own hearts will swerve from the path of duty and rectitude? Have you more confidence
                                in the Executive than you have in yourselves? It seems to that these
                                questions come home to you. Besides this, the State Constitution
                                prescribes that the officers shall be elective; and also, all
                                Governor cannot appoint when the Legsilature is in session. Why not
                                let a spirit of harmony once prevail in these halls, and it us
                                strike hands like brothers in this hour of our country's peril? Why
                                not recognize our constitutional rights as represenatives of the
                                people of Indiana, and act, upon those rights in the selection of
                                these commissioners to act in the name of the people ? The other
                                amendment which I propose strikes out the provision that these
                                commissioners shall not act until nineteen States shall be
                                represented. I think that kills be whole thing. I have no idea that
                                so many as nineteen States will be represented in the Washington
                                convention. Have we no desire to take part in the consultations of
                                that body ? Then, in the name of justice, let us not tie up the
                                hands of our commissioners, and say that they shall not act until
                                nineteen States shall be represented. Sir, I am opposed to the
                                resolutions on these grounds; and I can not allow them to pass
                                without making an effort to resist this restriction, and proposing
                                that the Legislature shall make the selection of these
                                commissioners. I think that is the true doctrine. And I say, take
                                your five commissioners, gentlemen; you have got the power, and we
                                accord it cheerfully. Take and send your own men, and our hearts
                                shall go with them into the chamber of their consultations at
                                Washington. And if they can all be convinced that the Southern
                                States have no right to be heard-no rights that ought to be
                                respected-then I shall be ready to vote with you and say that the
                                people have no right to be heard, and their representatives ought to
                                be mere automatons in the hands of the Governor! I say again, in a
                                spirit of friendship to the majority here, give us these
                                commissioners-three Republicans and two Democrats, or give us five
                                Republicans; but give us a voice in saying who they shall be, and
                                then untie their hands. When you shall have done that, I am willing
                                to go with you for the report. I do hope, sir, that our mouths will
                                not be closed as to the choice of the commissioners-that the mouths
                                of the representatives of freemen will not be closed, and themselves
                                transferred, like cattle in the shambles, by a Governor who holds
                                his office now by an accident. 

                            Mr. DOBBINS was satisfied that Henry S. Lane and other Republicans
                                named in the amendments would not fairly represent the people in the
                                Washington convention; but still, for the sake of reciprocating the
                                invitation to an amicable adjustment of National difficulties, he
                                would vote for them. He would even vote for five Republican
                                commissioners, father than refuse to make an expression in favor of
                                the perpetuation of our National Union.

                            The amendment was rejected by the same votes-yeas 38, nays 60.

                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to amend, by striking out all that relates to
                                the appointment of Commissioners, and inserting Henry S. Lane, Caleb
                                B. Smith, Wm. S. Otto, John P. Usher, and Thomas S. Stanfield.

                            This was rejected by-yeas 36, nays 60.

                            Mr. EDSON proposed to amend, by inserting a clause requiring the
                                Governor to make the appointments at his earliest convenience; and
                                requiring the Commissioner so appointed to proceed immediately to
                                Washington, &c.

                            Mr. DAVIS proposed to amend further by striking out "19," and
                                inserting "ten," but withdrew upon recollecting that this had been
                                voted down.

                            Mr. EDSON said it did seem to him his resolution should have favor.
                                He was in earnest. Much depended on our action to-day. There was
                                nothing of a partizan character in his amendment. The only question
                                was as to time. He exhorted all to join in this effort. There was
                                but one way, in the opinion of many, in which the Cotton States
                                could be brought, and that was coercion, He was for conciliation,
                                and had hope in the Border States Convention. The Legislature would
                                be in session at the same time with that Convention, and our
                                Commissioners could communicate and advise with this body hereafter.
                                Everything depended on immediate action.

                            Mr. GRESHAM saw no necssity for the amendment. There was no doubt the
                                Commissioners would be speedily appointed.

                            Mr. EDSON had understood differently.

                            The SPEAKER reminded Mr. Edson of that part of the resolution which
                                requires the Commissioners to be there and ask for an adjournment
                                till other States might come in.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend the amendment, by adding, "and we
                                accept as a basis of settlement the Crittenden propositions offered
                                in the Senate of the United States."This last was rejected by yeas
                                38, nays 60.

                            Mr. EDSON then had leave to withdraw his amendment.

                            Mr. HEFFREN now again proposed other Commissioners, viz.: Henry S.
                                Lane, William T. Otto, Caleb B. Smith, William K. Edwards, James E.
                                Blythe.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, would strike out "Caleb B. Smith."

                            Mr. FRASIER gave notice that if this course was further persisted in,
                                he would demand the previous question.

                            The SPEAKER, Tbe previous question would not be in order, because a
                                resolution has been passed limiting the time when debate should
                                close. 

                             Mr. BUNDY moved to lay Mr. Fisher's amendment on the table.

                            It was agreed to, and the question recurred on Mr. Heffren's
                                amendment. The yeas and  nays
                                being demanded and taken thereon, resulted-yeas 36, nays 60; so the
                                amendment was rejected.

                            [A message from the Senate returned their joint resolution directing
                                the Treasurer of State to call in the revenue.]

                            The question was now taken by yeas and nays on the adoption of the
                                joint resolution [29] reported by the majority of the Committee,
                                resulting-yeas 90, nays 5-as follows 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        AYES-Messrs. Anderson, Atkinson,
                                            Bingham, Black, Branham, Brett, Brucker, Bryan, Bundy,
                                            Burgess, Cameron, Campbell, Cason, Clark, Collins, of
                                            Adams, Collins, of Huntington, Combs, Cooprider, Grain,
                                            Dashiel, Davis, Edson, Epperson, Erwin, Feagler,
                                            Ferguson, Fisher, Fleming, Ford, Fordyce. Fraley,
                                            Gifford, Gore, Gresham, Grover, Hall, Harvey, Haworth,
                                            Hayes, Henricks. Holcomb, Hopkins, Horton, Hudson, Kurd,
                                            Jenkinson, Jones, of Tippecanoe, Jones, of Vermillion,
                                            Jones, of Wayne, Kendrick, Lane, Lee, Lightner, McClurg.
                                            McLean, Moody, Moorman, Moss, Mutz, Nebeker, Newman,
                                            Orr, Owens, Packard, Pitts, Polk, Prosser, Prow, Ragan.
                                            Randall, Bobbins, Roberts, Sherman, Sloan, Smith, of
                                            Miami, Stevenson, Stotsenberg, Trier, Thomas, Thompson,
                                            Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Warrum, Wells, Williams,
                                            Wilson, Woodhull, Woodruff, and Mr. Speaker-90.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Heffren, Howard, Kitchen,
                                            Lods, and Woods. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Messrs. Dobbins, Edson, McLean, Owens, Packard, Polk, Robbins,
                                Roberts, Stotsenberg, and others voted affirmatively under protest.
                                They did not like the report, but desired the commissioners.

                            Messrs. Heffren, Kitchen and Smith, of Bartholomew, made brief
                                explanations for their negative vote.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, voted for the resolution authorizing the
                                Governor to appoint five commissioners, &c., &c., for the
                                reason 1st. That the Union is above all price. 2nd. The invitation
                                of Virginia is friendly and patriotic, and should be responded to.
                                3rd. I vote for the resolution- because 1 think it is the best thing
                                we can get in this General Assembly; and 4th. I entertain some hope
                                that the commissioners whom the Governor may appoint will become
                                more patriotic, when they get beyond the influence of this
                                Legislature and its surroundings.

                            Mr. POLK. In voting in favor of the resolutions reported by the
                                majority of the Committee of Thirteen, favoring
                                the sending of Commissioners to meet the Commissioners oi Virginia
                                at Washington, on the 4th day of February next, I did not consent
                                that those Commissioners go in any way trammeled in their action,
                                which the resolutions do, by plain implication : Nor did I consent
                                to the unfair requirement that nineteen States
                                shall be represented before said Commissioners shall act. for the
                                reason that no more than nine slaveholding States, which still
                                acknowledge their allegiance to the Federal Constitution, will be
                                represented ; hence the non-slaveholding States must necessarily
                                control the Convention at the start. To say the least of it, it
                                shows an unwillingness on the part of the State of Indiana to meet
                                her sister States of the South on an equality. I, therefore, make
                                this my protest.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG said: While I have individual confidence, which
                                cannot be shaken by partizan feelings, that the Governor will
                                appoint good men, I would have preferred that the General Assembly
                                could have appointed them. I am not desirous to vote that we
                                prepared to assent to the terms proposed bv Virginia, because I
                                believe we ought not to bind the Commissioners in such a manner, in
                                the face of the innumerable petitions and requests of our people,
                                which have been poured in upon us, and because I think that, as the
                                resolutions themselves contemplate delay, we ought to give the
                                people of our State an opportunity to be heard on the question of
                                adopting or rejecting the Crittenden propositions, as there is ample
                                time therefor.

                            But rather than not respond to the patriotic call of our old mother,
                                Virginia, I will vote for the resolutions, for I am anxious that
                                & commission should be appointed somehow and in some manner.

                            Mr. ROBERTS (explaining.) Mr. Speaker; I believe that the people of
                                my county, irrespective of party, are in favor of the appointment of
                                commissioners to the Border States' convention, to be held at the
                                city of Washington on the 4th of next February. In view of this
                                fact, sir, and also of the fact that the majority report of the
                                    Committee of Thirteen contemplates the
                                appointment of commissioners, though in a manner somewhat
                                objectionable, I shall vote aye, reserving to myself the right of
                                entering on record my objections to he report in the main.

                            So the report of the majority was concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. GROVER (under a suspension of the order of business moved by Mr.
                                Moody,) returned Mr. Moody's bill [119,] concerning the state,
                                county, township, and road tax of Newton and Jasper counties,
                                recommending its passage; and the same was ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            On motion by Mr. MOODY, it was (under a dispensation of the
                                constitutional provision) considered as engrossed and passed the
                                first reading in the House-ayes 79, nays 2.

                            On motion by Mr. FISHER (by unanimous consent,) the bill [S. 79]
                                fixing the times of Common Pleas in the counties of Wabash, Miami,
                                Coss, Fulton and Kosciusko, with his amendment, "making all writs,
                                papers, &c., issued by the Wabash Common Pleas, returnable,"
                                &c., was passed through the several stages in the House of
                                Representatives-yeas 90, nays 0.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, from his committee, reported a bill [161]
                                to amend the 11th section of the treasury system act of March 1,
                                1859, and it was passed to the second reading. 

                            On motion by Mr. McLEAN, it was ordered that 200 copies of Mr.
                                Veatch's bill for five additional bank districts be printed for the
                                use of the House. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 7, 1861
                        No. 10
                    

                    
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.

                            The SPEAKER announced the order of the consideration of the remainder
                                of the reports of the Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I trust it will not be denied by any
                                gentleman on this floor, that I have been extremely modest in my
                                pretensions since the commencement of the session. I have no doubt
                                this meed will be accorded to me. During this exciting discussion, I
                                have not expressed an opinion, for this reason: I cannot see any
                                good that can possibly come from debate. The minds of gentlemen on
                                this floor are fixed, made up, established and no argument can
                                change their opinion. And I believe, sir, that mere appeals to the
                                passions and prejudices but tend to destroy the harmony and
                                interrupt the progress of legislation. And now, after listening to
                                the eloquent stump speech which I recognize in the report of the
                                gentleman from Washington, I think no gentleman on this floor can
                                fail to perceive a spirit of rebellion and treason against the
                                Federal Government breathing throughout the entire report. Hence I
                                rise to move that the report be unqualifiedly rejected by the
                                House.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. Mr. Speaker, I trust that we shall be able to meet this
                                inomentons question without appealing to party feelings, passions
                                and prejudices, so much dreaded by the gentleman from Laporte. I
                                remember, sir, that in the fore part of this day, it was indicated
                                by the votes of our Republican friends, that this shall be made,a
                                party question, and only a party question. But, sir, I trust we have
                                higher and purer motives, and that they will yet produce in this
                                House a readiness to sacrifice on the altar of our country's good
                                all our party prejudices. For the question is not how we shall
                                preserve our party organization; but it is a far higher and nobler
                                question. It is the question of the preservation of our Federal
                                Union. This is the momentous question presented for our
                                consideration to-day. And, I trust, since we all represent a
                                conservative constituency, we are all of us determined that the
                                Union shall be preserved. I trust, at least, that I shall be able to
                                meet the question in that spirit. Let me tell my Republican friends,
                                that within a few days past, in the other end of this building, I
                                have heard similar taunts to that just uttered by the gentleman from
                                Laporte. I have heard the Democracy charged with the act of treason
                                to their country,simply because they were willing to enter into a
                                convention for compromise and conciliation with the States of
                                Virginia, Kentucky, and others loyal to the Union, Simply for this
                                cause, Mr. Speaker, we are charged, and our constituents are
                                charged, with aiding and abetting treason, and with being traitors
                                ourselves. Why, sir, if I should say-and I trust I shall not give
                                offence by putting it hypothetically-if I should say that
                                Republicans, by acting in concert with Wendell Phillips and Lloyd
                                Garrison-that by their sympathyzing with such men, they are guilty
                                of high treason, I suppose they would take it as very offensive. But
                                I do not deal in epithets here. I have to meet and consider a
                                question that excludes them. I trust we shall all meet this question
                                like men, and stand upon oar manhood, determined never to sacrifice
                                or surrender any right of the State of Indiana, under the
                                Constitution. And what we claim for Indiana, in the name of God and
                                patriotism, let us not withhold from Kentucky, Virginia, or any
                                other slaveholding State now loyal to the Constitution. We do not
                                intend, by the convention proposed, to present propositions for
                                compromise to States in open rebellion ; but we do present
                                compromises to those States yet acting with us for the purpose of
                                keeping off civil war. But, sir, the spirit which I have seen
                                manifested, and to which I have adverted, must lead to division, and
                                that is the spirit that would maintain, at all hazards and every
                                expense, the Republican party. It seems to me that this spirit
                                manifested by the majority here, runs through every Republican
                                speech in the other end of the Capitol; and therefore, I think this
                                charge of treason comes from them with a very bad grace.

                            Let us look at the question a moment. Why is this difficulty upon us?
                                You on the Republican side for the last ten years have been
                                advocating a centralization of power in this Union-a power that
                                shall take from the people of the Territories and the States, rights
                                that belong to them, and concentrate their exercise at the Federal
                                Capital. You wish the Congress of the United States to legislate
                                upon the local rights of the people. You wish to give to the Federal
                                Government that sovereign 
                                power which belongs to the people only. Your advocacy of this
                                doctrine has caused the distant South to advocate the extreme on the
                                other side. Hence, there is between, your extreme men of the North,
                                and your extreme men of the South, a collision; and the only thing
                                that can preserve the Union of these States intact, is the sentiment
                                of compromise which is developing amongst those who stand between
                                your extremes. On these two wings of the party of extremes rests the
                                responsibility for the difficulties that are upon us today. 

                            As to the reports presented by this Committee of
                                    Thirteen, I do not concur in everything in the
                                minority report. I do not concur in that part of it censuring the
                                ministers of the gospel. Yet I know that many of the ministers of
                                the church of my affections have done wrong. Still I do not believe
                                in censuring them. Let them go. Let the responsibility for their
                                action be with themselves and God. But while I do not concur in that
                                portion of it, I think the minority report is right in principle. We
                                state in it that we are opposed to coercion in the sense in which
                                the word is now applied to the Southern States. That we are opposed
                                to driving the people of those States like slaves into a Union where
                                they believe they can. not enjoy their rights. But I suppose we
                                shall have commissioners from those States from various
                                considerations; from Kentucky, Tennessee-from the conservative
                                States North, and from nearly all the Southern States. I was raised
                                in that section. I have been a citizen of Indiana but about seven or
                                eight years. I am not here, however, to speak for a section, but for
                                the whole country. Then, let me tell you, sir, that when you
                                advocate a policy that looks to making war on the South, you
                                advocate a policy that will not meet my sanction, nor the sanction
                                of those I represent. I speak plainly. I expect to meet this issue
                                as a man, and I think we had better meet it to-day, at once, and
                                decide it finally.

                            Now, sir, take up the report of the majority, and there you will see
                                an entire dodging of the question at issue. In that report you fail
                                to meet the State of Virginia as brethren, in a fraternal spirit.
                                You fail to meet her request. You simply present to her something
                                that has no substance. You tell her, also, that all the resources of
                                the State of Indiana shall be given to the General Government for
                                the purpose of making war upon the seceding States.

                            Mr. ROBERTS (interposing.) I understand the gentleman to say he is
                                not in favor of coercion. Am I to understand from-that, that he is
                                opposed to the enforcement of the laws ?

                            Mr. DOBBINS, I am easily embarrassed, Mr. Speaker, when addressing
                                myself to a question of so much importance. I will state, in reply
                                to the gentleman, that when the Union of these States was formed,
                                there were certain conditions settled between the States and the
                                Federal Government. The Federal Government agreed that she would not
                                encroach upon the reserved rights of the States and the several
                                States agreed that, they would abide by the laws of the Federal
                                Government These conditions stand written in the history of the
                                country. Let us read them, and see if these conditions attached to
                                the original compact have been violated-see if the South have had
                                any cause to complain. I do not come here to justify those States in
                                open rebellion, but I am authorized to say, that in the opinion of
                                the people of the border States, they have a right to complain of
                                the manner in which their institution of slavery has been treaty by
                                the men of the North ; they have a right to complain in so far as
                                they have been misrepresented by the newspapers and stump orators of
                                the North. Now, I will answer the gentleman's question: Yes; I am in
                                favor of the enforcement of the laws for the perpetuity Of the
                                Government, if such enforcement do not lead us into civil war, to
                                imbrue our hands in the blood of our Southern brethren.

                            Mr. Speaker, in the minority report we present the Crittenden
                                amendment as being a basis of compromise acceptable to the border
                                States. What is the Crittenden amendment? I know you say it
                                establishes slavery; and I suppose, from your votes to-day, that
                                before you would permit slavery to be recognized, you would be
                                willing that the pillars of our Federal Government should crumble
                                and fall. It divides the Territories entirely to the Pacific. It
                                gives to the people of the slave States all the Territories south of
                                the line of 36:30, and it gives to the people of the Northern States
                                all the Territories north of that line.

                            Mr. SHERMAN, (interposing.) I ask the gentleman to explain what the
                                Crittenden amendment is. 

                            Mr. DOBBINS. Some gentlemen cannot be satisfied, I suppose, with any
                                explanation I could make. It establishes a, geographical line, and
                                provides that north of that line the people of the Northern States
                                shall have for their inheritance all the territories dedicated to
                                freedom: and that all the territories south of that line the people
                                of the Southern States shall have for their inheritance, to dedicate
                                it, if they please, to slavery. And as a compromise, this is to be
                                incorporated into the Federal Constitution, and become the supreme
                                law of the land. When this shall be done, sir, then the thunder of
                                the Republican party will cease. Then the slavery agitation will
                                cease. Then Republicans can no longer stand up and preach to the
                                people of the North against the encroachments of slavery, and pander
                                to their prejudices and passions against their Southern brethren.
                                Then we of the North will have all the territories north of that
                                line for our purposes, and they of the South will have all the
                                territories south .of it yielded to them. Sir, I ask Republicans
                                here, Are you willing to stand upon that as a basis of settlement?
                                No sir. But you would  do so
                                willingly, if it were not for the fact, that when the slavery
                                agitation is hushed, you know you cannot meet us before the people
                                on the principles that will then be left in the Chicago
                                platform,-from the fact that if that is taken from it, the platform
                                falls to the ground.

                            But sir, as for ray individual position, I do not accept the
                                Crittenden proposition as a first principle. I hold a different view
                                from some of my Democratic friends. I take it that, under our
                                Constitution, we are all brethren; that there is an equality of
                                rights amongst white men; that we all have equal rights to emigrate
                                to those territories and enjoy them together, with all our
                                institutions, Southern as well as Northern. But I am willing to
                                yield up those principles I hold dear, and accept as a, compromise
                                the establishment of slavery southward, and the prohibition of it
                                northward, of the proposed line.

                            Mr. Speaker, I have not, on any occasion, spoken half an hour since I
                                have been in my place this session; and I do not now intend to speak
                                the alloted 30 minutes. I speak from the impulse of the moment. I
                                rose simply to ask the majority here to surrender not principle but
                                mere passion, prejudice that party pride which they have exhibited
                                here by their votes to surrender it for their country-for our common
                                country.

                            Mr. MOODY did not intend to detain the House long. He agreed with the
                                gentleman from Laporte, in one thing here, that should meet with
                                general condemnation. He accorded the right of speech in the
                                expression of opinion. But here was a question of maintaining the
                                Constitution, the laws, and the Union; and the man that would not
                                stand with us, he proclaimed as a traitor. He made no personal
                                charge. Here was no question of concession, but simply whether we
                                will stand up for the Union and its flag, and no man here or
                                elsewhere had a right to differ with us. Every man was bound to
                                stand up and maintain the Constitution.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Suppose the gentleman were in South Carolina to-day,
                                what would he say, if required by the Federal Government, to take
                                part in the preservation of the Union?

                            Mr. MOODY. If he were a South Carolinian, he would be none the less
                                an American citizen. He would expostulate against treason, just as
                                he would in Indiana. If it requires the strong arm to put down
                                rebellion, he was ready to ready to use it. 

                            He believed this Government would be maintained.

                            He discussed not the political question. The verdict on that had been
                                rendered and recorded. The only question now was whether the Union
                                and the Constitution shall be preserved. Could gentleman point to
                                any thing done by the State of Indiana to alienate the South?

                            Mr. DOBBINS. Do yon not demand all the Territories?

                            Mr. MOODY. The free white laboring men demand them. Unfortunately for
                                the gentleman's party, the laboring men have been found arrayed
                                against it. The gentleman was mistaken in his estimate of the
                                feeling of the Republican party, when he said we advocated the
                                centralization of power. On the contrary, the Republican party, has
                                ever been in favor of State Rights. He (Mr. M.) was in favor of the
                                enforcement of the laws. If that was coercion the gentleman had it.
                                He denied the right of coercion. If the right to enforce the laws
                                were conceded, the power to prevent secession must be understood.
                                You could not make war on rebels. It was quelling rebellion-not
                                making war.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. Were the fathers in the revolution rebels ?

                            Mr. MOODY. Did the gentleman place the South Carolinians alongside of
                                the fathers of this Republic ? It might be a good Christian part to
                                accept the proposition to restore the Missouri Compromise, which was
                                wrongfully broken down by the Democratic party. But they would do
                                more now. They would establish slavery. Since the verdict of the
                                country was in our favor, he never would, by his vote permit the
                                virgin soil of the common territories to be tainted with slavery. As
                                for the alleged grievances of the South, he believed personal
                                liberty bills to be unconstitutional and void. They were enacted in
                                a spirit of retaliation, and should be stricken from the statute
                                books.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend the majority report, (the Senate
                                resolutions,) by substituting an application to Congress for a
                                convention to amend the Constitution of the United States.

                            [His speech thereupon is reserved for revision.]

                            Mr. FRASIER obtained the floor.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Warden of
                                the State Prison, and another from the Superintendent of the Blind
                                Asylum, responding to resolutions of the House; the former promising
                                a more detailed communication, and the latter appointing next Friday
                                at 3 o'clock p. m., for the time of the exhibition of the blind
                                pupils before the members of the General Assembly, at the
                                Institute.

                            The House adjourned. 
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            FRIDAY, February 1, 1861.
                        

                         On motion by Mr. CONNER, the House amendment to his bill, [S. 97]
                            introduced and passed yesterday, was read and concurred in.

                        Mr. JONE.S presented resolutions adopted by a late Union meeting in
                            Columbus, proposing a National Convention, &c.,which were read and
                            referred to the Committee on Federal Relations under
                            the rule. 

                        
                            PETITIONS WERE PRESENTED
                            By Mr, CRAVENS, from citizens of Jefferson, praying an amendment of the law,
                                so that creditors in magistrates' courts may sue in the township
                                where the debtor resides, or where the debt was contracted; which
                                was read and referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.

                            By Mr. ANTHONY, from citizens of Clark county, which was referred
                                without reading, to the Committee on the State
                                    Prison.

                            By Mr. HULL, from citizens of Ripley county, praying for protection
                                against the stock of railroad companies ; which was read and
                                referred to the Committee on Corporations. 
                        
                        

                        
                            BANKS AND BANKING.
                            Mr. CLAYPOOL, from the Committee on Banks,
                                returned his bill [S. 86]-described on page 105 of these
                                Reports-with amendments recommending passage.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend the amendment by providing that the
                                banks shall deposit $1 for every $1 circulation, instead of
                                $1,10.

                            Mr. SLACK objected to the amendment, with ten per cent, security,
                                banks have been breaking in this State.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL explained the provisions of the bill, and stated that
                                they will increase and add to the security of the bill holder.

                            Mr. MARCH. I am disposed to favor this bill as reported, but are
                                opposed to the amendment offered by the Senator from Monroe, [Mr.
                                Tarkington.]

                            Mr. WHITE opposed the amendment to the amendment.

                            Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual motion to lay on the table and print
                                200 copies.

                            Mr. CONLEY. My opinion is, that this act affords better security to
                                the bill holder, than the provisions of the present law. I hope the
                                amendment to the amendment will not be adopted.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON offered the amendment, not with the intention to
                                benefit bankers, but to guard the interests of the masses of the
                                people. Indiana bonds are better to bank upon by 20 per cent, than
                                any other bonds in the market, therefore it is good security, dollar
                                for dollar, with the individual liability clause. This bill is a
                                better one than has ever been introduced in the Indiana
                                Legislature-harder upon bankers, and better for the people.

                            Mr. STEELE. There are several all important provisions in this bill.
                                The plates of the bank should never go into the hands of its
                                officers at all; they should remain with the Auditor, and never go
                                into the hands of the bank, as this bill provides. Another amendment
                                secures the bill holder, even should the bills of a bank be
                                repudiated, and its affairs closed up by the State Auditor. Another
                                amendment allows one-sixth to be issued in small bills, as is the
                                case with the Bank of the State. Indiana 5 per cent bonds are now
                                93c.-83 1-3 is the par value. In 1866, Indiana must make provision
                                for the payment of her Internal Improvement debt.

                            The vote rejecting the motion to print was reconsidered, and 200
                                copies of the bill and amendments were ordered printed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ORDER OF BUSINESS.
                            Mr. BLAIR called up his resolution, submitted yesterday, relating to
                                the change of the order of business, and it was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ACTIONS AT LAW-WHERE COMMENCED.
                            Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Jones's bill, [S. 77,] with an amendment striking out all after
                                the enacting clause, and inserting an entire new bill, compelling
                                parties to commence suit in the Circuit and Common Pleas Courts in
                                the county where one or more of the parties immediately reside.

                            Also reporting a bill [S. 98] to amend sections 13 and 14 of the
                                Practice act, approved June 9, 1852, having for its object the same
                                provisions for townships as are contained in the above bill as
                                relating to counties.

                            Mr. MURRAY believed that law would meet the approbation of the entire
                                State.

                            The committee report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            POSTAGE STAMPS.
                            Mr. CONLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted by yeas 25, nays
                                17-directing the Doorkeeper to furnish each member with three
                                dollars' worth of postage stamps. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE DEBT AND THE PUBLIC FUNDS.
                            Mr. MURRAY offered a, resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Finance, by actual inspection,
                                to ascertain the actual indebtedness of the State, and what amount
                                of the public funds have been devoted from their legitimate purpose
                                so as to report a bill providing for the reinstatement of all such
                                funds to their original purpose. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SESSION HOURS.
                            Mr. TARKINGTON called up his resolution, submitted yesterday,
                                providing for one session per day-from 9 till 1 o'clock; and
                                modified it at the suggestion of Mr. BEARSS, so that on Saturdays
                                the session shall be from 9 till 11, and on Mondays from 2 till 5
                                o'clock.

                            The resolution, as modified, was adopted by yeas 24, nays 18.

                            [Mr. LINE presented a petition against paying a tax upon turnpike
                                roads going and returning from church, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges, without
                                reading.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE LIBRARIAN'S ACCOUNTS.
                            Mr. ANTHONY offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Committee on the State Library to
                                examine the accounts of the State Librarian, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON SCHOOL FUND.
                            Mr. CLAYPOOL offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the Committee on Education to inquire
                                into the expediency of so amending the School law as to permit each
                                county to retain for its own use the entire amount of money paid by
                                them for school purposes, and
                                inquiring of the Judiciary whether such a change would be
                                constitutional. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PAPERS FOR THE PRISON INVESTIGATION.
                            Mr. BEARSS submitted a preamble and resolution reciting that whereas
                                the architect employed by the joint State Prison
                                    Committee has intimated that he has been refused the
                                privilege of examining the plans, specifications, &c., and
                                whereas the committee cannot arrive at the proper conclusions
                                without the aid of an examination by said architect; therefore
                                resolved, that the architect be authorized in the name of the State
                                to demand all such specifications, plans, &c., as may enable him
                                to make his estimates, that the employees about the prison be
                                directed to surrender the same, &c.

                            Mr. WOLFE suggested that probably the architect had no legal right to
                                them.

                            Mr. COBB was inclined to think the resolution is premature.

                            Mr. Bearss sent to the Secretary's desk a letter from the architect,
                                which was read, stating that no opportunity had been given him to
                                inform himself of the matters connected with his mission; in fact
                                all and everything that would give him any light was carefully kept
                                out of his sight, &c.

                            Mr. SLACK. This joint resolution reflects severely upon a member of
                                the Board of Control, and before we do that we had better know what
                                we are doing. Make it in the form of a request, and I have no doubt
                                but that it will be acceded to. 

                            Mr. BEARSS thought the officers were desirous of preventing an
                                investigation, and those gentlemen should be made to disgorge those
                                papers at once.

                            Mr. HAMILTON. I want a full investigation of this matter. I have no
                                objection to the prison remaining in Michigan City if it is the best
                                position for it.

                            Mr. COBB. I am not willing to jump at conclusions without evidence. I
                                am unwilling to vote for this resolution with the preamble attached,
                                for the reason I know nothing about the facts, and for another
                                reason we can easily obtain the evidence with regard to this, and be
                                able to act properly in this matter.

                            Messrs. Teegarden and Anthony favored the resolution.

                            Mr. WOLFE moved to refer the resolution to the State Prison
                                    Committee,Messrs. Anthony and Murray opposed the
                                reference, and after further remarks by Messrs. Tarkington and
                                Line-

                            Mr. CULVER. As far as this question, in reference to the papers is
                                concerned, I understand they are all here, and it strikes me that in
                                one hour after the adjournment if the committee were brought
                                together, the truth of the allegations can certainly be
                                ascertained.

                            Mr. COBB made an ineffectual motion-yeas 16, nays 14-to strike out
                                the preamble.

                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY the motion to refer was laid on the
                                table-yeas 20, nays 13.

                            The resolution was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            DECEDENT ESTATES.
                            Mr. CONLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                requesting the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts to inquire into the expediency of so amending
                                the law, as to require clerks to make a complete record of the
                                settlement of such estates, payment for the same to be made out of
                                the County Treasury. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CLERK TO THE COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION.
                            Mr. MILLER offered a resolution, which was adopted, authorizing the
                                joint Committee on Education to employ one clerk
                                who shall act for both Committees. 
                        
                        

                        
                            VIOLATION OF THE LIQUOR LAW.
                            Mr. HULL offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Committee on Temperance to examine if there
                                is, and if not to provide proper penalties for the violation of
                                sections 8 and 9 of the Liquor act of March 5, 1859.

                            And then-

                            On motion the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.

                        
                            FRIDAY, February 1, 1861.
                        

                         Mr. 8TOTSENBERG entered his motion to reconsider the vote indefinitely
                            postponing the bill to amend section 476 of the practice act; and he
                            entered another motion to reconsider Mr. Cason's bill [35] to amend the
                            288th section of the practice act so as to admit parties in civil
                            actions to testify in their own behalf.

                        The SPEAKER suggested 11 o'clock as the proper time for the orders of the
                            day to be taken up and referred to the necessity of such a fixed rule,
                            in the large number of bills before the House which could not be acted
                            on without it. 

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. NEBEKER presented the petition of sundry Republicans of
                                Jeffersonville, with reference to State Prison affairs, and the
                                necessity of revising the militia law; which was ordered to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            On motion of Mr. ROBERTS, the petition of A. J. Cotton, presented by
                                him yesterday, was taken from the table and referred to the
                                    Committee on Education. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.
                            By Mr. VEATCH, returning the resolution inquiring whether a law
                                making a specified period to entitle a cttizen to a vote would be
                                constitutional, and reporting the opinion that any such act would be
                                unconstitutional; but that a law might be enacted declaring what
                                shall be deemed evidence of residence, in the case of transient,
                                persons having no fixed resdence.

                            He also returned the resolution inquiring into the expediency of a
                                law requiring a residence of 60 days in the county, and not  less than 30 days in the
                                township in which a man may offer to vote, and reported, that the 2d
                                section of the 2d article of the Constitution fixes the
                                qualifications of a voter, and the Legislature has no right to fix
                                the residence. A residence in the township is all the Constitution
                                requires, and a residence of one day is as valid as a residence of a
                                year. But the Committee would state, that in the case of transient
                                persons a law may be enacted as to what shall be deemed and taken as
                                a residence, and that the object sought in the resolution may to a
                                great extent be obtained in that way.

                            Mr. EDSON, returning Mr. Wood's bill [71] to amend the 14th section
                                of the Misdemeanor act-[merely changing the penalty for destroying
                                timber, so as to make it discretionary with the Court. The law now
                                fixes it at five times the value of the timber]-with a favorable
                                recommendation.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed, and these several reports were
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. GROVER (by unanimous consent) submitted an order that the
                                    Committee on Education be authorized to
                                employ a clerk for such time as they may need the same. He said the
                                clerk was to serve the joint committee. And as they were now engaged
                                in a revision of the school law, he invited gentlemen having
                                suggestions to present them.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG, from the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts of Justice, returned the bill to repeal the act
                                for the return of juries to the Common Pleas Court at the third day
                                of the term, approved March 5, 1859, and reported that the present
                                law provides a proper, sufficient and economical method for
                                summoning juries; that it would not be expedient to legislate on the
                                subject at this time ; and that the bill be laid on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. MOODY, from the Committee on Swamp Lands,
                                returned the petition of John I. Morrison, S. W. Holmes, and others,
                                asking for an appropriation to pay for removing a mill dam on the
                                Muscatatack river, and reported that there does not appear
                                sufficient reason in said petitions to warrant the
                                appropriation.

                            Mr. HEFFREN hoped the report would be laid on the table till these
                                petitioners could be heard.

                            Mr. MOODY supposed the money asked for belonged to that county. If
                                there was merit in their application, he was willing to hear
                                them.

                            The report was laid on the table.

                            Mr. JENKINSON made an ineffectual application for leave for the
                                    Committee on the Northern States Prison
                                    Investigation to sit during the session of the
                                House.

                            On the motion of Mr. COLLINS, of Whitley, (by unanimous consent,) his
                                bill [152] to change the terms of the Common Pleas Courts in the
                                counties of Lagrange, Steuben, De Kalb, Noble and Whitley, was
                                considered on the 2d reading, and ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. ANDERSON, (by consent,) introduced bill [152] to amend the 107th
                                section of the amended school act of March 5, 1859, so as to
                                regulate the choice of teachers: which passed to the second
                                reading.

                            On motion by Mr. ORR, (by consent,) tlio bill [S. 74] to change the
                                times of the Common Pleas in the 7th Judicial Circuit, in the
                                counties of Hancock, Hamilton, Tipton, &c., was considered, and
                                (under a dispensatton) passed the first and secoad readings,and was
                                referred to a select committee, to be composed of one member from
                                each county in the Circuit. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                            Mr. McLEAN asked and obtained leave to have the following spread on
                                the Journal:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Mr. Speaker:
                                        
                                        The undersigned, one of the members of the
                                                Committee of Thirteen, who
                                            submitted the minority Report of said committee to this
                                            House, desires to enter his dissent from so much of said
                                            minority report as reflects upon the ministers of the
                                            gospel. The undersigned would say that although the
                                            allusions contained in the said report reflecting upon
                                            the ministry may be lamentably true to a certain extent,
                                            yet he must regard the said charges as entirely too
                                            general, wholesale and sweeping in their character, in
                                            bad taste, foreign to the real object which should have
                                            been kept in view by the report, and not calculated to
                                            allay the bad feeling unfortunately existing among our
                                            people. The undersigned would say that the principal
                                            features and great body of the said minority Report meet
                                            his hearty and cordial approbation, but he cannot
                                            endorse the offensive allegations above referred to. The
                                            undersigned regards it due to himself to state that the
                                            said minority Report was presented to him for his
                                            signature at his desk in the House only a few minutes
                                            before the hour for which it was made the special order,
                                            not affording him either time or opportunity to examine
                                            the same. The undersigned cannot concur in the said
                                            minority report, unless the said offensive charges are
                                            stricken from the same, and would recommend the House
                                            that the same should be stricken out.
                                        
                                            WM. E. McLEAN
                                        
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. McLEAN. was probably due to himself to state that his name was
                                affixed to the report before he had time to consider that part to
                                which he now excepted.

                            The House now resumed the consideration of the reports of the
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            The SPEAKER stated that the order of yesterday to restrict debate
                                applied only to the consideration of that part of the report which
                                refers to the appointment of Commissioners to the Washington
                                Convention. 

                             Mr. FRASIER. He had listened to the speech of the gentleman from
                                Floyd, more in. sorrow than in anger. Was sorry to hear such
                                sentiments on this floor. But the sentiments uttered by that
                                gentleman were as harmless as the cooing of a dove, when compared
                                with the treason, rank and foul, which breathes throughout this
                                minority report. He was glad his honorable friend from Vigo had
                                dissented from it. He was glad to learn under what circumstances his
                                name was attached to that report. But he was sorry to see attached
                                to that report the name of a gentleman, who a few days back had
                                introduced a resolution to the effect, that the State of Indiana was
                                ready to back up the General Government in any attempt to put down
                                the treason of the south. When he chargeded that the spirit of treason
                                breathes through that report, he spoke what he knew. "When the
                                language of the Declaration of Independence comes to be prostituted
                                to the purpose of justifying a band of rebels and traitors,
                                marshalled under their rattle snake ensign, it did seem to him that
                                it must cause the very bones of our patriot fathers to rattle in
                                their graves. What does this report say? It assumes that these men
                                are justly, and rightfully and properly defending their rights, and
                                tins minority of the committee more than intimate where they will be
                                found in the conflict. Would it be in defence of the Constitution?
                                No sir; they tell us that they are ready to shoulder the musket and
                                assist rebellion and treason-assist to overthrow the best Government
                                ever constituted on earth. And yet they denounce us as traitors to
                                the country, because we see lit to stand up and boldly advocate our
                                principles for the defense of the constitution and the enforcement
                                of the laws, which are saered and next in our hearts, to the book of
                                God. But this portion of the committee had invited investigation
                                into the causes which have brought about this state of affairs He
                                agreed with Mr. Stotsenberg that it was useless to inquire after the
                                causes which have brought the country to the present crisis. But
                                gentlemen have invited investigation, and we have heard it charged
                                not only on the streets, but on the authority of leading newspapers
                                repeating the sentiment of the late Goverdor Hammond, that it has
                                been the work of demagogues and hypocritical ministers of the
                                gospel.

                            He proceeded at length to examine the record of the past ten or
                                twelve years, and to throw back the charge of responsibility for the
                                Federal difficulties upon the Democratic party, and to convict them
                                of various inconsistencies on the slavery issue; closing with
                                strictures on the plans of adjustment and remedy for national
                                difficulties proposed by them.

                            He referred to the Convention of the Democratic party in. 1849, in
                                this State. Leading members of it were the late Gov. Willard,
                                Attorney General McDonald and their late candidate for Governor. No
                                man raised his voice in that Convention against the doctrines set
                                forth in its platform. There is nothing in it recognizing the State
                                rights about which they talk so much at this time.

                            He then read the platform, condemning the introduction of slavery in
                                the territories. He also referred to the Joint Resolutions in the
                                General Assembly at the ensuing session. In Ohio, the Democratic
                                party assumed bolder ground and determined to eradicate slavery. Yet
                                this party by its press and by its speakers have represented to the
                                South, that it was the object of the Republican party to destroy
                                slavery in the States where it now exists. When a United States
                                Senator was to be elected, at that time, it was deemed necessary to
                                learn the opinions of the leading men of their party and receive
                                pledges of hostility to the extension of slavery, even to its
                                abolishment in the District of Columbia. These facts are well known
                                to all. Yet some of these rnen, thus pledged, cannot now take part
                                in the raising of the flag of the country, but make it an occasion
                                of especial denunciation of the very opinions they then so zealously
                                advocated. He then read the correspondence with Mr. Fitch, in which
                                he pledges himself to hostility to slavery, where it had long been
                                existing.

                            Was it constitutional, then, to prohibit slavery from the
                                Territories? Was it not extraordinary that no one of its ablest men
                                then discovered, what all of the party now see so clearly, the
                                unconstutionality of prohibiting slavery from the Territories?

                            He challenged any one of them to show that the Republican party, in
                                any particular, went beyond these Democratic pledges and opinions of
                                1849. He then showed that by the decisions of the United States
                                Courts in the slave States themselves, slavery was declared not to
                                exist beyond the States under whose authority it existed. All these
                                decisions, made during a long period of time, were in direct
                                conflict with the principles of the Dred Scott decision.

                            The change of the party, so complete in its inconsistency, has been
                                caused by its attempt to uphold a rotten and corrupt dynasty, which
                                the people had so justly hurled from power. Even in last June the
                                Democratic party refused to assume the position that is now taken in
                                defense of those who are banded together in avowed rebellion against
                                their Government. They did this, well knowing that the North would
                                utterly repudiate the then demands of the South.

                            Some of the party admit that the Government has a right to enforce
                                its laws by arms, but they should read the minority report, which
                                now takes the position that a State has a right to secede whenever
                                it chooses. He never would consent to the adoption of the Crittenden
                                amendment, because it takes the opposite of that position assumed by
                                the great Henry Clay, when he declared that no earthly power could
                                force him to extend slavery where it does not now exist. Yet now, in
                                open rebellion against the Government, in violation of the
                                Constitution itself, in resistance to the law, with arms in their
                                hands which they have stolen, there is a portion of the country
                                demanding what Henry Clay thus declared no human power could force
                                him to consent to. And now, in this minority report, men thus in
                                open rebellion are sustained, and the State is menaced with the
                                threat, that if any attempt is made to enforce the laws and defend
                                the General Government, a power will arise in our own State, to
                                withstand, by force of arms, such attempt.

                            He then referred to the evils of slavery as evidenced by the progress
                                of the slave and free States, and maintained that the result was
                                occasioned by this institution, and in the nature of things no
                                prosperity could be expected where labor was based on the denial of
                                the rights that belonged to a man. 

                            

                            Mr. HEFFREN here desired to know whether a negro was a man.

                            Mr. FRASIER. He would reply to that by asking: whether Mr. Heffren
                                thought he was not a man?

                            Mr. HEFFREN said he was not.

                            Mr. FRASIER. He is a man, although not enjoying the political rights
                                which we do; just as our wives and daughters are women, although
                                they are denied the right to vote, and are subjected to other legal
                                disabilities. The negro had a right, no matter what his position by
                                local legislation, to the product of his labor. It is a right that
                                belongs to every human being, and this right is recognized by our
                                State Constitution, the production of a Convention largely
                                Democratic.

                            He maintained that if the Democratic party had stood up in support of
                                the principles it advocated in times past, the present difficulties
                                never would have existed, but to hold on to their political
                                ascendancy they renounced every one of their principles, descending
                                so low in their subserviency as here to maintain that a negro is not
                                a man, and that he had no lights as a human being that can
                                distinguish him from property, and, hence, that rebellion is to be
                                supported in its demands to take this property wherever it shall be
                                their pleasure to take it.

                            As to our Constitution it shall be supported; its flag shall be
                                defended; the liberty of which it is an emblem shall be maintained
                                at all hazards, and if destruction comes in their defence, that
                                defence shall be made to the last drop of our hearts blood.

                            Mr. PACKARD supposed he shared in the feeling of all the members on
                                this floor when he said the subject under consideration could not be
                                overestimated. It must be acknowledged that the present is a time of
                                great danger and difficulty, and to one as young as himself in
                                political life, it was almost dangerous to approach the subject.
                                Scylla is on the one hand, and Charyhdis on the other. But the heart
                                that falters in the hour of peril, the spirit that quails when
                                danger and difficulty surrounds, is unworthy the name of freeman.
                                Therefore, whether he erred or not, he had an earnest heart and
                                purpose in the matter, and by the indulgence of the House, he
                                would-five utterance to the sentiments he cherished. The history of
                                our coutry for eighty-four years had been a proud one. Our penury
                                had become opulence; our feebleness had become a mighty power; our
                                commerce had become the hope of the world, and our feeble and
                                restricted colonies had become an ocean-bound empire.

                            But in the midst of all this prosperity there have been those who
                                have gone about all over our free land sowing the seeds of discord ;
                                and the cloud which, at the first, was no larger than a man's
                                hand-than that seen by the servant of Elijah on the mountain top-has
                                grown fearfully large and lowering, ready to break over our country
                                in all the fierce horrors of a revolution. As the physician who
                                would treat skillfully a fearful disease, inquires first into the
                                cause, so in order that we may be able to prescribe a proper and
                                wholsesome remedy, we should first seek out and find the true source
                                of our troubles. In discussin the source and origin of our troubles,
                                it was not his purpose to advert to them at great length, nor to
                                indulge incriminations and recriminations! He believed that the
                                great fault, the great source of the error of the American people,
                                if they are in error, had arisen from this fact: We talk of the
                                secession of South Carolina, but he affirmed that this Union was
                                virtually dissolved long before the State of South Carolina declared
                                her ordinance of secession. Dissolved! How? Not by any civil, overt
                                act of dissolution; by no means.

                            But what was this Union? It was a great political constitution which
                                rests on the popular good will-on the mutual feeling of love and
                                respect of the people of the United States, Its foundations rest
                                where all liberal and Constitutional Governments must rest. There
                                was but one other bond of strength for government, and that was
                                slavish fear. Then if this Union rests on the mutual good will of
                                the people of the States, he said, the Union was destroyed when that
                                feeling was destroyed. Joshua R. Giddings never utteard a greater
                                Republican truth than when he said there was no enmity between any
                                two foreign nations greater than that between the people of the
                                Northern and the people of the Southern States. But certainly
                                gentlemen would not accuse the Democracy of the North with
                                entertaining that hatred. No; but it was a fearful fact that for a
                                long time past a rancorous hatred had sprung up in the bosom of the
                                people of the North against the people of the South. This feeling
                                had assumed a political character, and increasing in power and
                                momentum, had rolled wave after wave of its power in a reckless
                                crusade on the peculiar institution of the South, in utter disregard
                                of their right of protection, as recognized under the Constitution
                                and in the solemn edicts of Congress. 

                            The North had fostered and strengthened a hostile feeling against the
                                South, until it had become a rankling hatred, as shown by the laws
                                passed by these Northern States. They have refused the poor boon of
                                allowing the slaveholders to pass through their States with their
                                slaves; their leader has declared that slavery and freedom can not
                                exist together; yet the North is dependent on the South for its
                                prosperity, and hence it refuses to grant the request of the South
                                when it asks a peaceable division of the property that belongs to
                                both, and the right to live in peace separately, He would not
                                justify all the South had done; but who can expect a people in a
                                revolution to observe the laws. The grievances of the South have
                                become intolerable, and, as in our revolutionary struggle, they had
                                a right to demand another government. Legally they could not
                                revolutionize, but the Republicans, who have caused all the
                                difficulties, have no reason to complain of their own acts. They
                                have elected to the Presidency a man pledged to hostility against
                                the rights of the South.

                            But now the Republicans have grown belligerent ; they desire to
                                conquer the cotton States. If they do subdue them, how could they govern them? If disunion,
                                however disgraceful must come, let it come rather than civil war.
                                Never would he consent to vote men or money, or arms, or consent to
                                any measure that will lead to a conflict.

                            A great difficulty arises from our not remembering the nature of the
                                difficulty. If it was limited to Charleston, we might properly
                                coerce her and force her to obedience; but the true nature of it may
                                be seen in the answer of the Tennessee Legislature to the New York
                                resolutions. The dominant party in the North have crushed out all
                                fraternal feeling by their Constant denunciations of slavery-their
                                abolition lectures in every school house in the country. If they
                                loved this country half as much as they do their party, they could
                                bring peace and harmony back again. But they oppose the Crittenden
                                propositions, because they deny the principles of concession it
                                embodies. He referred to the positions assumed by Mr. Seward in the
                                telegraphic reports of last night, as indicating that he was ready
                                to abandon his party platform rather than bring civil war upon the
                                country.

                            The apathy of the Republican party is one of the chief things one of
                                the most clangerous that stands in the way of conciliation. They
                                seem to depend wholly upon Abraham Lincoln, but unless the
                                difficulties are settled before he takes his seat, he will preside
                                over but a small portion of our Confederacy.

                            Why do they not allow the people to vote on the adoption of the
                                Crittenden amendments? If they could speak, fifty thousand majority
                                in this State would demand their adoption. It had been asserted that
                                the people had decided these questions in the recent elections. He
                                denied this. The principles of the Republicans never have been
                                endorsed by the majority of the people, The Democrats had made the
                                country ; he rejoiced that they have had the control of the State,
                                and now if they could have their way, they would soon preserve it
                                from the dangers that threaten its destruction. Instead of meeting
                                the Democrats in their efforts to preserve it, they bring forward
                                resolutions cunningly worded with terms of peace and fraternal
                                feeling, but so limiting the powers of the Commissioners, as to
                                prevent any action that could harmonize the country.

                            He asked what had been the policy of the country toward foreign
                                nations. Did it settle conflicting claims by war? No! But by sending
                                peace commissions, invoking every kindly feeling, as in the Canada
                                boundary and the Oregon disputed line. Shall we not pursue the same
                                course toward our own brethren?

                            Mr. CAMERON obtained the floor. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. HENRICKS rose to a question of privilege. He held in his hand
                                this morning's Cincinnati Commercial newspaper,
                                containing an article which he desired to be read at the Clerk's
                                table-in which there was reflection cast on the members of this
                                body.

                            The article read was the New York Tribune's notice
                                of the refusal in the Richmond (Va.) Theater to hear Miss Caroline
                                Richings sing " The Star Spangled Banner," but when she sung the
                                Southern Marseillaise, and trampled on the American Flag she
                                received the most tumultuous applause; and the inquiry of the Commercial whether this was " the same Miss
                                Richings who sang " The Star Spangled Banner" for the Indiana
                                Legislature the other day, and received from that agust body a vote
                                of thanks?

                            The Speaker laid before the House a communication from the Auditor of
                                State responding to the resolution of the House, inquiring after
                                $255,000 of the Common School Fund paid into the State Treasury and
                                withheld from the schools, referred to in the last report of the
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction.

                            The Auditor says the practice has been to issue the Auditor's warrant
                                in favor of the County Treasurer for the distributive share (of the
                                School Fund) of each county, which warrant is placed to the credit
                                of the county treasurer in settlement. Practically, only the excess
                                has been paid into the Treasury. The reason of the accumulation of
                                what is due to the Common School Fund is because the literal
                                execution of the school law of 1855 is rendered impracticable by the
                                failure of the county officers to report the collections in the time
                                prescribed by law; and hence the Superintendent has been compelled
                                to make an estimated distribution or none at all. 


                            
                                STATE OF THE UNION.
                                The SPEAKER announced the consideration of the reports of the
                                        Committee of Thirteen.

                                Mr. CAMERON took the floor, but gave way to-

                                Mr. PROSSER. Mr. Speaker, I have been one of those humble
                                    individuals that, if I have stood for anything, it has been for
                                    a calm and peaceable discussion of every question before this
                                    body, and but yesterday I was in favor of limiting speeches in
                                    this discussion to ten minutes, because I felt that no good
                                    could grow out of a protracted discussion. The propriety of this
                                    suggestion has become more apparent since, from the course that
                                    has been taken. There was a minority report from the
                                        Committee of Thirteen, of which I am a
                                    member ; and that report has been assailed by the majority on
                                    this floor in the most insulting and bitter terms. I was one who
                                    subscribed to that report. I put my name to it, believing it to
                                    be right. I have never, on this floor, or elsewhere, made the
                                    discussion of politics with my opponents, a personal matter. I
                                    have uniformly acted with the strictest courtesy to all
                                    political opponents. But now my sentiments and motives have been
                                    impugned. They have been assailed in most violent terms. The
                                    gentleman from Laporte yesterday evening commenced the attack,
                                    the gentleman from Jasper 
                                    followed it up, and to-day the gentleman from Kosciusko has
                                    capped the climax-until, I say to you, Mr. Speaker, forbearance
                                    on my part has ceased to be a virtue. If I have any principle,
                                    sir, it is to be true to myself and to my constituents; and when
                                    I am impeached as a traitor-when I am accused of being guilty of
                                    that for which, if proven, I should be strung up between heaven
                                    and earth-it is a matter of no small importance to me. I know
                                    that there are Republicans on this floor who do not countenance
                                    such remarks-who are not in favor of them, who discuss subjects
                                    upon their merits, without personal abuse, or pandering to
                                    passions and prejudices. And while there may have been some
                                    offensive remarks given out by the gentleman from Marshall, on
                                    this side, it was only by way of offset against what had been
                                    before heaped upon the minority. These gentlemen-three of
                                    them-have gone on to state that they are for war, that they are
                                    fighting men. The gentleman from Kosciusko was willing to spill
                                    the last drop of his blood in the conflict. They seem to be
                                    without fear. But I tell these gentlemen that it is beneath the
                                    dignity of the pot-house politician to indulge in such a line of
                                    remark. These questions can be better decided without going so
                                    far. I tell them, when they say l am a traitor, it is a base
                                    falsehood, and I cram it down their vile throats, and stand here
                                    to defend myself.

                                Mr. BUNDY and others called to order. 

                                Mr. PROSSER. If I am not in order, why, in God's name, were not
                                    those men called to order when they denounced me as a traitor ?
                                    The call to order conies with a bad grace from them at this
                                    time, and again I hurl their denunciations back, and again cram
                                    the lie down their wide throats.

                                The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Brown will take his seat. The
                                    chair will not permit such language from any member of the
                                    House, and he begs to say that hereafter, when gentlemen take
                                    such advantage of the chair, he will see if there is not some
                                    way to protect both the chair and the House.

                                Mr. CAMERON thought there had been enough of this bad blood.
                                    Gentlemen should not stir up the fires of the volcano. He
                                    intended to discuss this question, not as it relates to men, but
                                    in view of the imminence of the peril that overhangs the
                                    country. We have been told here that the time is past for
                                    indulgence in "glittering generalities" that we must look the
                                    fact in the face ; that the Union is already begun to be
                                    dissolved; that in our political heavens one sun after another
                                    was fading out-ready to vanish, and leave only dark spots in
                                    their places. He proposed more particularly, to consider the
                                    remarks of his friend from Marshall [Mr. Packard.] That
                                    gentleman had said this difficulty of secession and dissolution
                                    is not the effect of the election of Mr. Lincoln, but that the
                                    cause of it existed long ago, when the people lost their
                                    devotion to the common country. 

                                The gentleman right. So far back as the day when this government
                                    was formed, there was engendered by the dreamers of South
                                    Carolina an which never loved the Union which itself from time
                                    to time, and in Jackson's d broke forth in almost open
                                    rebellion.

                                The gentleman from Marshall referred to the causes which gave
                                    rise to the present unfortunate condition of the country. He
                                    attributed them to the discussion of slavery. He was sustained
                                    by those who were the leaders in this secession movement. He
                                    would read their declarations, and then it could be seen what
                                    the causes were.

                                In the convention of South Carolina, which passed the ordinance
                                    of secession, the following declarations were made by delegates
                                    :

                                "Mr. Inglis. Mr. President : If there is any gentleman present
                                    who wishes to debate this matter, of course this body will hear
                                    him ; but as to delay for the purpose of discussion, I for one
                                    am opposed to it. As my friend (Mr. Parker) has said, most of us
                                    have had this matter under consideration for the
                                        last twenty years, and I presume we have by this time
                                    arrived at a decision upon the subject,"

                                "Mr. Keitt-Sir, we are performing a great act, which involves not
                                    only the stirring present, but embraces the whole great future
                                    of ages to come. I have been engaged in this movement ever since
                                    I entered into political life"

                                "Mr. Rhett-The secession of South Carolina is not an event of a
                                    day. Is not anything produced by Mr. Lincoln's
                                        election, or by the non-execution of the Fugitive Slave
                                        Law. It is a matter which has been gathering head for
                                    thirty years."

                                Here it is seen that secession has not been caused by any recent
                                    political events. It has not been produced by the election of
                                    Mr. Lincoln. So declares the greatest leader in this secession
                                    movement. But for the last twenty years it has been agitated,
                                    and to present the consummation of the schemes of disunion,
                                    everything has been yielded- to the Southern disunionists for
                                    the last twenty years.

                                And now we are asked to make more concessions-to yield up every
                                    political principle that was decided by the election of Mr.
                                    Lincoln. If we do not comply with these demands the country is
                                    to be destroyed and the Union dissolved. To resist a dissolution
                                    of the government by the enforcement of the laws is denounced as
                                    unjustifiable coercion, and pictures are drawn of the calamities
                                    which must follow civil war. No one could more regret this than
                                    he, but if these are to be the results of enforcing obedience,
                                    he would endure them all. The rights of labor are to be
                                    maintained. The Republicans are made responsible for opinions
                                    held by the old Whig party, but he would defend them, although
                                    in past times he had been a Democrat. That party had stood by
                                    Jackson when the peace of the country was menaced and the Union
                                    threatened with destruction, Eminent men, as Scott and Taylor,
                                    of that party, were seen in prominent positions in the Mexican
                                    war. 

                                We are told that the Union is dissolved. It is not so ;
                                    thirty-four stars are yet seen on our flag. It now represents
                                    Kansas, and South Carolina is still there. It has been admitted
                                        that Charleston should
                                    be coerced, if the secession movement was confined to it; but
                                    what difference is there in the offense of a city or State? If
                                    it would be right to subdue the one-coercion, is it not right in
                                    the other, also? 

                                But Mr. Packard charges that the Republican party meets the
                                    present crisis with apathy. This is not so; it acts
                                    coolly-calmly. Did Major Anderson act with apathy when he
                                    refrained from firing on the forts? or have we acted with apathy
                                    when we forbore to send boats against the battery at Vicksburg
                                    ?

                                The Crittenden propositions are nothing more than a slave code
                                    for the Territories, and whenever it is tried by the vote of the
                                    people,it will be found that they will again reject it, for it
                                    embodies the Breckinridge platform of the last canvass. 

                                But the Republican party is charged with the acts of John Brown.
                                    That man was a dis-unionist, like those of the South-as Wendell
                                    Phillips and Lloyd Garrison are.

                                He then dwelt upon the benefits that the South had under the
                                    Constitution. They had those peculiar benefits, on account of
                                    which Wendell Phillips denounces it as a covenant, with hell,
                                    and seeks to destroy it. Here we see both these extremes
                                    resolved upon the destruction of the Constitution, because it is
                                    not as extreme as themselves.

                                The Republican party stands on the platform that the Union must
                                    and shall be preserved, and it will use all means necessary to
                                    preserve it. He declared his readiness to do all that he could
                                    to avoid a civil war, but when it was demanded of'him to make
                                    the country a slave country, lie would not consent.

                                Mr. BUNDY promised to be brief in his remarks, for he knew there
                                    were many members here who desired to be heard. He had heard the
                                    appeals of gentlemen for the preservation of the Union with
                                    great pleasure. He yielded to no man in the intensity of his
                                    desire to maintain this Union of these States. He would go any
                                    reasonable length for pacification, but he would never submit to
                                    yield to demands that required him to give up everything. He
                                    could not give up the principles on which the Government was
                                    founded. No objection had been made to the majority report
                                    except that it did not go far enough.

                                The Crittenden amendment was the only remedy proposed for healing
                                    the disease of the body politic. What is the Crittenden
                                    amendment? As has been truly said by Mr. Cameron, it is the
                                    Breckinridge platform with a slave code added. It is to apply
                                    not only to all the Territories now owned by the United States,
                                    but to cover all Mexico, when it may gradually become a part of
                                    the country. Squatter sovereignty was no more. That great party
                                    was already among the things that were. For one he could never
                                    accept this remedy. We are told it is a compromise. But how ?
                                    Slavery cannot go north of 36 30, but the God-of nature made ail
                                    this free territory. What is given up to the North? What does
                                    the South yield up? Nothing at all. They do not guarantee safety
                                    to our people when in their States on business. Is a proposition
                                    of this kind a compromise ? They are to have all the territory
                                    that may hereafter be acquired It is all to be given up to
                                    slavery. The compromise was all on one side-that the South shall
                                    have all the Territory they want, and we all the disadvantages.
                                    The people of the North never could make such a compromise.

                                But we are denounced because the General Assembly will not
                                    consent to submit this compromise to the people. The party that
                                    has been twice beaten before the people now asks for a new
                                    trial. There is a provision in our law which admits ot but two
                                    trials in the same matter. There is no justice in the demand. As
                                    the Crittenden amendments are the embodiment of the Breckinridge
                                    creed, and as it received but twelve thousand votes in this
                                    State, what right has a party so signally defeated to have the
                                    new trial they ask?

                                The language of the Minority report was objectionable, and he
                                    must be pardoned if he referred to it. The denunciations against
                                    the Ministry and the Bible reminds us of the attempt made to
                                    destroy both these, in a revolution not a hundred years ago. The
                                    consequences of that attempt were such as will make them never
                                    to be forgotten.

                                But another objectionable portion is where it declares that the
                                    attempt to enforce the laws will meet with resistance in this
                                    State. It is an extraordinary doctrine, one not ever heard of
                                    until lately, that a State may secede; yet the Government has no
                                    power to execute its laws. In 1833 this was not the doctrine
                                    then acted upon. It brings us back to the old Articles of
                                    Confederation, when the Government had no power to execute its
                                    own laws. What is the result of such a declaration as the
                                    minority report contains, but that those who make it will
                                    prevent the enforcement of the laws. If they do this, what else
                                    is it but giving assistance to the secessionists-to aid them to
                                    defy the laws and break up the Union. Is such a course
                                    consistent with the duty of patriots ? Is it not rather intended
                                    to overthrow the Government, and what else can this be but
                                    treason ?

                                The report declares that the negro is of an inferior race; but if
                                    true, does his inferiority make him the creature of slavery ?
                                    Yet, unless such a doctrine is enforced, we are threatened, and
                                    the country is to be involved in ruin. 

                                He argued further in defense of the principles of the Republican
                                    party, and by way of review and criticism of the matter of the
                                    minority report. When he had concluded 

                                Mr. HEFFREN spoke at length on the other side. A report of his
                                    speech, too long for these pages, is reserved for revision.

                                Mr. Veatch has the floor for to-morrow.  Mr. Underwood obtained leave of
                                    absence two days.

                                The SPEAKER. There had been a disposition manifested to charge
                                    the Chair with allowing remarks out of order on one side of the
                                    House, and not on the other. No such thing was intended. If, as
                                    he had been informed, remarks had been indulged in his temporary
                                    absence, requiring the restraints of the Chair, he desired to
                                    say now, that under no circumstances will he permit any
                                    gentleman to proceed when he reflects on motives and character.
                                    He regretted that remarks were made this afternoon which were
                                    decidedly out of order. The gentlemen on his right now could not
                                    complain that they were not at least equal to those on his
                                    left.

                                Mr. FRASIER called the House to witness that he had made no
                                    personal allusions in this debate; but he claimed his right to
                                    speak of measures as became a representative of a free
                                    people.

                                The House then adjourned. 

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            SATURDAY, February 2, 1861.
                        

                         Hon. David STUDABAKER, the Senator from Adams, Wells and Jay, appeared
                            in his seat for the first time this session, having been detained on
                            account of sickness in his family.

                        The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a communication from the Doorkeeper,
                            stating that he had applied for money to buy postage stamps, in
                            accordance with a resolution adopted yesterday, but had found the
                            treasury empty, and is therefore unable to perform his duty. Also, a
                            communication from the Treasurer of State, (in answer to a resolution of
                            the Senate,) stating that the $104,052 37 suspended debt did not arise
                            during his term of office; and that the $160,000 was placed in the hands
                            of Agent of State, in pursuance of law, to meet the interest due January
                            1, 1881. 

                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.
                            By Mr. LOMAX: Resolutions adopted by a meeting in Orange county a few
                                days since.

                            By Mr. SLACK: Preamble and resolutions, adopted by citizens of
                                Whitley county, without distinction of party.

                            Were referred to the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations.

                            By Mr. WHITE, in the absence of Mr. Wagner, a petition from citizens
                                of Warren county, asking the repeal of the new county acts of '57
                                and '59; referred to the Special Committee on that subject. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            By Mr. CONNER: Corporation-returning Mr.
                                Ferguson's bill [S. 39-see p. 46] recommending passage.

                            By Mr. JOHNSON: Agriculture-returning petitions
                                asking for repeal of the law requiring assessors to make out
                                statistical lists for information, and reporting a bill in
                                accordance therewith, [S. 99,] to repeal section 73 of the valuation
                                and assessment act, approved June 21, 1852; which was passed the
                                first without objection.

                            By Mr. SHOEMAKER: County and Township
                                Business-returning his bill [S. 26-described on page 30 of
                                these Reports] recommending passage.

                            By Mr. CONLEY: Select Commitee returning numerous petitions, asking
                                repeal of the new county acts of '57 and '59, recommending that they
                                lay on table, as there is a bill now on its third reading in the
                                Senate contemplating the object of the petitions.

                            By Mr. LINE: Select Committee returning joint resolution [S. 5]
                                proposing amendments to the Constitution, so that the Legisiature
                                may more effectually guard against fraudulent 6 voting; recommending
                                passage.

                            The joint resolution being read-

                            Mr. MARCH said: This amendment to th Constitution is only to meet the
                                objection as to the power of the Legislature to pass laws as to the
                                qualification of voters, about which there is a difference of
                                opinion. I believe the Legislature now has the power to pass laws
                                fixing the time of residence for the voter in county, ward or
                                township; but there are Senators here, and legal gentlemen all over
                                the State who differ with me. I am willing to vote for both
                                propositions, because the decision of the Supreme Court would be
                                obtained within two years, and it will then substitute the final
                                action of the amendments to the Constitution should that decision be
                                favorable; while on the other hand should they decide that the
                                Legislature has not the power, we have it so that in three years it
                                can be put in force. It is well known it requires the action of two
                                sessions of the Legislature, and then must be submitted to a vote of
                                the people. There is ample time to guard against any want of
                                foresight in the provision.

                            Mr. LINE. There is a difference of opinion among even our best
                                lawyers as to whether the Legislature has power to set any length of
                                term for the qualification of a voter. This being an unsettled point
                                and the fact that charges of fraud upon the ballot box are bantered
                                freely by parties, is of itself a sufficient reason why these
                                amendments should be incorporated in the Constitution. Hence I shall
                                support the proposition.

                            The joint resolution was adopted by yeas 38, nays 2.

                            By Mr. MARCH: Select committee returning a joint resolution, [S. 6]
                                proposing an amendment to article 8 of the Constitution, enabling
                                towns and cities to raise money by taxation for common school
                                purposes ; which was subsequently passed by yeas 31, nays 4. Also,
                                reporting a joint resolution, [S. 12] proposing an amendment to
                                section 23, article 4 of the Constitution in relation to the uniform
                                operation of laws throughout the State.

                            

                            Mr. MARCH. The original proposition was an amendment to the 8th
                                article and it simply adds a clause giving the Legislature power to
                                confer upon incorporated towns and cities the right to raise a tax
                                for the support of common schools, and the object of that amendment
                                meet the decision of the Supreme Court, when they decided there
                                could be no except the State tax. They also raised that a law of
                                that kind would to objection, that it would not be operation. The
                                operation of the clause is simply this, to give incorporated towns
                                and cities under rules provided by the Legislature, the power to
                                raise money in addition to what they receive from the State for the
                                support of common schools. It is not intended to interfere with the
                                present system of common schools in any way or form, but to towns,
                                and townships if they see proper to make additions to this fund in
                                order to carry out the system more fully.

                            Mr. SHOULDERS. I pledged myself to my people that I would not vote
                                for any amendment to the Constitution whatever, from the fact I
                                considered party excitement so high at this time, that it would be
                                inexpedient to meddle with the Constitution and for that reason I
                                shall vote against the proposition.

                            The joint resolution was adopted by yeas 35, nays 4.

                            The Committee reports recited above vere severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the first
                                reading, without objection :

                            By Mr. TARKINGTON : [100] To create the 14th Judicial Circuit. Rules
                                suspended, read the second time by title only, and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts.

                            By Mr. CONNER: [101] To amend section 168 of the assessment act, so
                                that the County Auditor's deed for land sold for tax shall be prima facie evidence of the facts therein recited,
                                and no more.

                            By Mr. WOLFE : [102] To amend section 21 and 22 of the misdemeanor
                                act, approved June 14, 1852 ; so as to define adultery, fornication
                                and other public indecencies.

                            By Mr. MILLER : [103] To enable minors whose land has been sold on
                                application by guardian during minority, to prosecute an appeal from
                                the order confirming the sale any time within three years after
                                arriving at age.

                            By Mr. SLACK : [104] To amend an act entitled an act concerning real
                                property, approved May 6, '52, and March 2, '59, so as to authorize
                                mulattoes and Indians to convey.

                            By Mr. MURRAY: [105] To provide for the location, vacation and change
                                of highways, &c., and repeal sections 15 to 26 inclusive of the
                                act to vacate or change highways ; approved June 17, '52.

                            By Mr. TEEGARDEN: [106] To provide for settlement, and compromise by
                                persons or joint partners with creditors.

                            By Mr. HAMILTON: [107] For the relief of tie heirs of Michael
                                O'Brien, deceased.

                            [A message from the Governor announced his approval of Mr. Conner's
                                bill [S. 97-introduced day before yesterday) changing the time of
                                holding Common Pleas Courts in Wabash county.]

                            By Mr. CULVER: [108] To allow county commissioners to organize
                                turnpike companies in certain cases.

                            By Mr. FERGUSON : [109] To amend sec. 1 of an act defining who are
                                persons of unsound mind, &c.; approved May 29, 1852.

                            By Mr. MURRAY : [110] To provide for the appointment of notaries
                                public, defining their powers, &c., and repealing all acts now
                                in force.

                            By Mr. MARCH: [111] To amend section 23 of an act for the relief of
                                the Indiana University; approved March 2, '59.

                            [Mr. Ray was added to the Military Committee.]

                            On motion by Mr. ODELL, the rules were suspended-yeas 24, nays 1-and
                                his bill [S. 89] to establish probate courts, was read the second
                                time by title only, and referred to the Committee on the
                                    Organization of Courts.

                            Mr. JONES offered a resolution, which was adopted, instructing the
                                    Judiciary Committee to report whether by the
                                Constitution and laws individuals who have advanced monies for the
                                support of friends in the Insane Hospital, can legally demand that
                                the money shall be refunded.

                            [Mr. Jones was added to the Committee on
                                Banks.]

                            And then-

                            On motion, the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            SATURDAY, February 2, 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. NEBEKER presented a petition for the repeal of the acts for the
                                formation of New Counties.

                            Mr. WELLS presented a petition for such change of the law that the
                                people of each district in the county shall elect their own
                                commissioners; they were referred to the Committee on
                                    County and Township Business.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, presented the petition of Snow and others,
                                citizens of Adams county, for remuneration to Wm. Vance for expenses
                                incurred by him in arresting a fugitive from justice; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Ways and Means.

                            Mr. JENKINSON presented a petition for legislation against sheep -
                                killing dogs; which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONVENTIONAL INTEREST.
                            Mr. BUNDY, from the Committee on Judiciary,
                                returned the petition of Joshua Holland  and others, for a law authorizing
                                parties to contract for a rate of interest on the loan or
                                forbearance of money not exceeding ten per cent, and reported a bill
                                [163] to amend the first section of the act concerning interest on
                                money, approved May 27, 1852; which was passed to the second
                                reading:

                            Mr. EDSON, on the part of the minority of the Judiciary
                                    Committee, asked and obtained leave to present a
                                minority report; which subsequently he did, and without reading, it
                                was ordered to be spread on the Journal. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PERSONAL EXPLANATION.
                            Mr. PACKARD. Mr. Speaker, yesterday I delivered before this body what
                                were my deliberate views of the state of the country. I said nothing
                                in that speech that I would take back-not a sentence-not a syllable
                                of a sentence. That speech, or the substance of it, will be
                                published. I am willing-my record shall go out-I am willing to abide
                                by what I have said. After I had closed my remarks (it seems they
                                had raised something of a flutter on the other side)quite a number
                                of Republicans came round me here asking me various questions. I
                                replied, that in my speech I had expressed my sentiments, and if
                                they could find anything wrong in that, they could take it and make
                                the most it. I made no other answer to the questions propounded to
                                me. I only said I regard coercion as civil war, and compromise and
                                conciliation as the only means of obviating the ruin of this divided
                                country; and that so long as I had power to raise my arm, I would
                                stand up and oppose any and every effort for coercion, because I
                                believed it would be destructive of our entire country. Now, sir, I
                                see, in the Indianapolis Journal of this morning,
                                a squib fired at me, purporting to come from a member of this House.
                                I will send it up to be read.

                            The clerk read the following:

                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                         ONE OF THEM CORNERED.
                                        
                                            February 1,1860.
                                        

                                        ED. JOURNAL-To-day,
                                            after the Hon. Mr. Packard had finished his speech in
                                            the House of Representatives, I went to him and
                                            propounded the following question: " If war will and
                                            must come, between the North and the South, on which
                                            side will you be found?" After some hesitation he
                                            answered: "On the side of the South!"
                                            The answer was given in the presence of several
                                            gentlemen.

                                         [-The above statement comes to us authorized by the name
                                            of a good and true man, and a member of the House. It is
                                            unquestionably true, and shows that we said no more than
                                            facts will prove when we declared that " all the
                                            traitors were not in the Gulf States." Such a man has no
                                            business in the Legislature of a State he avows his
                                            readiness to oppose by force.-Ed.
                                                Journal.] 
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. PACKARD. I would just say, Mr.Speaker-

                            The SPEAKER. The Chair is unable to see exactly a question of
                                privilege in that.

                            Mr. PACKARD. It is an attack on me.

                            Mr. FEAGLER. Mr. Speaker, I say to the gentleman, I am the man
                                responsible for ' that.

                            Mr. PACKARD. I say I never answered a question-none that were asked
                                me. And I now denounce the author of that statement as a
                                black-hearted liar, infamous scoundrel a coward.

                            The SPEAKER appealed to the House to preserve order. 

                            Mr. FEAGLER (amidst various calls to order.) That matter I can call
                                testimony to prove, sir. I went round and put the question to you,
                                and you stated, after hesitation, If war come you would be on the
                                side of the South.

                            The SPEAKER. The House will come to order!

                            Mr. FEAGLER. I hurl the lie back, and I say to the gentleman-

                            The SPEAKER. Gentlemen, the Chair expects the House to preserve
                                order. If this is to be made an arena for the settlement of private
                                quarrels and resentments of member against member, the sooner we go
                                home the better. I appeal to the House, and I hope the House will
                                manifest a sufficient sense of itg dignity to censure members guilty
                                of such violation of the rules. Since the announcement of yesterday,
                                members coming in and indulging in such gross contempt of the House,
                                should be punished by the House.

                            Mr. EDSON. When a member is grossly misrepresented and insulted in a
                                newspaper has he not a right to take notice of it in his place ?

                            The SPEAKER. The proper course is to go to the editor, demand the
                                author, and settle all private quarrels outside of the House.

                            Mr. BUNDY (by unanimous consent) submitted a preamble and resolution,
                                which was adopted, viz :

                            
                                
                                    
                                         WHEREAS, by the Constitution of the
                                            State of Indiana, it is declared that any person who
                                            shall give or accept a challenge to fight a duel shall
                                            be ineligible to any office of honor or trust; and
                                            whereas, the practice of duelling is a barbarism, and
                                            abhorrent to the moral sense of the age; therefore-

                                        Resolved, That any member of this House
                                            who shall give or accept a challenge to fight a duel
                                            ought to be expelled therefrom.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. WOODHULL desired to understand the point of privilege
                                decided-

                            The SPEAKER. Anything occurring within the bar is a question of
                                privilege. Anything transpiring without the bar, like that submitted
                                by the gentleman from Marshall and Starke, is as much beyond the
                                jurisdiction of the Chair as though it was in the streets of the
                                city. 

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION. 
                            Mr. VEATCH, sorry for this interruption, stated that during the short
                                time he had had the honor to hold a seat here, he had found no
                                occasion to entertain or express ill-feeling toward his fellow
                                members; and he desired especially, in what he had now to say, to
                                avoid all personalities and all offensive language toward anyone; at
                                the sometime he intended to speak with all that freedom which the
                                case demanded. But if, in the ardor of debate, he should happen to
                                be led into any transgression of the rules of the House, he hoped he
                                would be promptly called to order. 
                            

                             He had listened yesterday with some attention to the speech of the
                                gentleman from Washington and Harrison, and he must be permitted to
                                say of it, (since variety is the spice of life,) that that speech
                                contains a large amount of that spice. If, during the delivery
                                speech, any person had come into the Hall to listen without knowing
                                the subject of it, he would, from time to time, have been compelled
                                to change his mind as to what was the gentleman's object. At one
                                time he might have thought we were in midsummer-in the heat of the
                                month of July-and that a Fourth of July celebration was going on in
                                the House, instead of a little discussion on two joint re-solutions
                                of the House of Representatives. Then in a few moments more, he
                                might have bought the gentleman a minister of the gospel-a magnate
                                of the church-whose whole life had been given to piety and holiness;
                                he might have imagined him enthroned in the hair of the Holy See,
                                administering his rebukes and warnings to the faithful, and teaching
                                them, by infallible rules, how to read the sacred scriptures and
                                seek their souls' salvation. Then, if he had listened further, he
                                might have regarded him as an intrepid military leader, urging on
                                his followers to deeds of violence and blood, threatening in their
                                results to merge in wreck and ruin the proudest and best government
                                ever constituted by man. Such were some of the varied
                                characteristics of the speech of the gentleman from Washington.

                            He did not propose now to offer any such entertainment to the House.
                                He proposed, as aa humble member of the Republican party, to submit
                                what he understood to be the great principles of that party, and to
                                offer some reasons, briefly, why they ought to be sustained by the
                                lovers of our country.

                            He was inclined to look on the favorable side of men and things. He
                                hated misrepresentation, and the man that loves it and practices it.
                                This he applied to that class of partizans who would distort the
                                views of others for strife. Now Republican speakers could not go
                                South, nor their papers and speeches. But day after day distortions
                                and misrepresentations of them were borne by every mail to the
                                South. But every Republican knew he was not an enemy of the South,
                                and the whole country ought to know and acknowledge this fact.

                            The right of the majority to rule was a fundamental principle with
                                the Republican party. They asserted no new doctrine, but the old
                                principles of the fathers. In 1857 they resisted the spread of
                                slavery. They were defeated. Republicans propose no other correction
                                of a public grievance than a peaceful appeal to the ballot-box. In
                                1880 they went before the people on the same issue-the retraining of
                                slavery by constitutional enactments of Congress. They had a right
                                to present that issue : and they had found a sanction of that
                                principle by 1,800,000 voters. In opposition to this doctrine, there
                                was one that Congress had a right to establish, and the people no
                                right to prohibit, slavery in the territories-sanctioned by about
                                700,000 voters. A few days after the November election, this
                                minority rebelled, and, like the gentleman from Marshall yesterday,
                                with all the complacency of a prophet, they add: I told you so: I
                                told you, you would bring ruin upon the country. Compromise, they
                                say. We have no principles; why should you be tenacious now ?

                            But they claim the right of revolution. No man respects that right
                                more than I do. But should it obtain in the case of a government
                                formed by the people themselves ? Why was it that the rule of
                                Democracy had been so bad, that they were now so earnest, for the
                                destruction of their own work, that they were justified in taking up
                                arms against it? Was that worth thanking God for, after the example
                                of the gentlemen from Marshall and Starke? But they come back with
                                the everlasting, whining cry, Why don't you do something? Millions
                                of the public property had been seized by rebels; State after State
                                had seceded ; and yet we are told that 100,000 men in Indiana will
                                present a rampart of their bodies against any attempt of the
                                Administration to enforce the laws and protect the public property.
                                But some gentlemen, like the gentleman from Vigo, had got already a
                                little too much record on this. 

                             He was opposed to coercion ; but in favor of the proper, due
                                enforcement of every law of the land. He would not think of subduing
                                the seceding States-would not compel them to have their mails
                                carried by the General Government-would not compel them to send
                                representatives to Congress. But we will collect the revenue, and if
                                mobs resist, they must be punished. He would not bandy the word
                                traitor. But when men here join a Southern army to prevent the
                                execution of the laws, that act was treason. He read the
                                constitutional definition of treason, and decisions of the Courts
                                under it. The gentleman from Washington had said yesterday, in reply
                                to Mr. Nebeker,that, in case the President should go south with the
                                army to enforce the laws, he would leave the home of his childhood,
                                the hearth-stone of his father's house, and as De Kalb, Lafayette
                                and Kosciusko left their homes and country, he would resign his
                                commission, and go and become a private in the armies of the South,
                                sooner than become a commander in chief of a Northern army. A
                                combined force to resist the execution of the laws was
                                treason-joining, giving aid and comfort to the enemy,was treason ;
                                and a man arrested under such circumstances, could not be adjudged
                                by any jury otherwise than as guilty of treason against his country.
                                He trusted he was not violating any rule of courtesy when he made
                                this statement. 

                            

                            He replied to Mr. Packard, ringing the changes pleasantly on his
                                "thank God, Democracy has ruled the State of Indiana"-combining
                                therewith the Republican exceptions to the management of the
                                finances of the State.

                            He then reviewed the minority report, with copious strictures,
                                especially on that clause in the resolution which charges
                                responsibility for our national difficulties upon Ministers of the
                                Gospel-religious vagabonds; and proceeded to reply more specifically
                                to the speech of Mr. Heffren.

                            He replied also to the speech, and showed the impracticability of the
                                amendment of Mr. Stotsenberg-speaking at length on the whole
                                premises in defence of Republicanism.

                            Mr. JENKINSON had looked up to the gentleman from Spencer, as a
                                neophite looks to his teacher, and was disappointed because he had
                                failed to propose a remedy for our National difficulties, and
                                contented himself with captious criticisms and strictures on the
                                speeches of Democratic members on this floor. He sustained the
                                minority report. It denounced not ministers of the gospel, but
                                pretended ministers. He would not go South to fight-would not fight
                                his brethren-would not have Indianians to go. If they attacked, he
                                would defend. He would have resented the attack on the Star of the
                                West. He would protect and defend the public property and the forts
                                wherever the flag of our country waves. The position of the
                                Democratic party on this question of coercion, was that of Pitt, and
                                Barry, and Burke, on the same question before the war of the
                                revolution, in the British Parliament ; and the present position of
                                the Southern Cotton States was not without a close analogy to that
                                of our fathers of the revolution. The Republican heart was right,
                                but its head was wrong. They should take a lesson from history
                                against the disastrous results of civil war. He objected to the
                                Republican policy of building a wall of fire around the slave
                                States. Slavery must have scope and expand.

                            Mr. FRASIER. If the South refuse your terms of compromise, would you
                                coerce them ?

                            Mr. JENKINSON. If old Virginia were met in the proper spirit, she
                                would not go out; and the cotton States could not stand alone. He
                                would throw a cordon of armed vessels around the Southern coasts and
                                collect the revenue. He would give the slave States an equal chance
                                in the Territories, as a policy to get rid of the institution. Give
                                it scope and it would retire toward the tropics, and leave all the
                                original States free. Such was the policy of the Crittenden
                                amendments. It would repel slavery, not attract it, nor advance its
                                interests in this Union. And this was all the people of the South
                                wanted-simply a guarantee that they may take their slaves and be
                                protected with them in their share of the common Territories. And
                                the Republican platform was the thing in the way of this: hence
                                civil war. He referred to the error of taking the powerof appointing
                                commissioners to the Washington convention out of the hands of the
                                Legislature, and insisted that he could pick 200 Republicans in the
                                State of Indiana, better men for the place than those the Governor
                                has appointed. They were men of extreme and uncompromising views. He
                                knew them all but Slaughter, and this was the extent of his
                                objection to them. He charged that the whole political course of the
                                Republican party was tending directly to the disruption and disunion
                                originally desired professed by the Abolitionists.

                            He spoke at length, closing with an argument for submitting the
                                Crittenden amendments to the people of Indiana on the 22d Of
                                February, and the expression of his assurance that they would be
                                sustained by a majority Of 50,000 voters.

                            Being interrupted, he answered that he regarded a negro as a man-an
                                inferior of the white man. He recognized popular sovereignty as the
                                true doctrine (all the Constitution did was to recognize slaves as
                                property;) but he was willing to yield popular sovereignty south of
                                the line for the sake of peace.

                            When he concluded, Mr. CASON took the floor.

                            And then, at 11:35 o'clock, the House adjourned till Monday 2 o'clock
                                p. m. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE
                        
                            MONDAY, February 4,1861.
                        

                         The Senate was not in session before noon.

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION. 

                            Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                requiring the Committee on Printing to inquire
                                into and report as to the expediency of letting out the public
                                printing to the lowest bidder; what amount of money has been
                                expended last year on account of the public printing; whether it has
                                been done under the prices of the law of '59; to examine and report
                                whether justice and economy demand a reduction of said prices;
                                report a bill making the printer furnish paper; and a bill
                                separating the binding from the printing.

                            Mr. TURNER presented a communication from Major Dunn-being a contract
                                for the labor of a certain number of convicts in the Northern State
                                Prison ; which was read and referred to the Penitentiary
                                    Committee. 



                            
                                PETITIONS WERE PRESENTED BY 
                                Mr. O'BRIEN, which was referred, without reading, to a Select
                                    Committee, consisting of Senators O'Brien, Hall, Robinson and
                                    Cravens.

                                Mr. WILSON, praying the repeal of the new county acts of '57 and
                                    '59.

                                Mr. BLAIR, not objecting to the repeal of those laws, but praying
                                    for a proviso saving all pending proceedings.

                                Which were referred to the Special Committee on that subject. 

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 11, 1861
                        No. 11
                    

                    
                        

                        
                            THE LIQUOR LAW. 

                            Mr. DICKINSON, from the Temperance Committee,
                                returned Mr. Line's bill [S. 8-see page of these Reports]
                                recommending its consideration by the Senate. The report was
                                concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS. 

                            The following bills were severally passed the first reading, without
                                objection:

                            By Mr. CONLEY: [112] To regulate the remission of fines and
                                forfeitures, and repeal all acts in conflict therewith.

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: [113] To amend section 144 of the practice act,
                                approved June 18, '52, requiring the Sheriff to serve a copy of a
                                writ of inunction on the adverse party.

                            By Mr. NEWCOMB: [114] For the relief of borrowers of public and trust
                                funds, prescribing how mortgages may be substituted, &c. Also
                                [115] to amend sections 2 and 5 of an act authorizing the
                                Commissioners of the Sinking Fund to receive substitution of stock
                                mortgages, approved January 28, 1847; which bills were severally
                                read the second time by title only, (the rules being suspended for
                                that purpose-yeas 37, nays 1, yeas 35, nays 1)and referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: [116] to amend sec. 7 of the act providing for the
                                election of Supreme Court Reporter; approved February 5, 1852.

                            By Mr. STUDABAKER: [117] To authorize and require clerks of the
                                Circuit and Common Pleas Courts to enter satisfaction of certain
                                mortgages, and providing compensation therefor. On Mr. Anthony's
                                motion, the rules were suspended-yeas 36, nays 0-the bill read the
                                second time by title only, and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            By Mr. COBB: [118] Fixing the time of holding the Circuit Courts in
                                the 14th Judicial Circuit; rules suspended-yeas 36, nays 1-read the
                                second time by title only, and referred to the Committee on
                                    the Organization of Courts.

                            By Mr. COBB: [119] to amend sec. 6 of an act touching the laying out
                                and locating of of towns, streets, alleys, &c.; approved March
                                20,1852.

                            By Mr. TEEGARDEN : [120] Supplementary to an act to repeal all
                                general laws now in force for the incorporation of cities, &c. ;
                                approved March 9, 1857.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: [121] Supplemental to an act regulating the business
                                of banking; approved March 3, 1855 ; to authorize the Auditor and
                                Treasurer to surrender securities and moneys deposited in certain
                                cases: rules suspended-yeas 36, nays 0-read the second time by title
                                only, and referred to the Committee on Banks.

                            By Mr. CARNAHAN: [122] To provide for the establishment of private
                                roads on dividing lines between lands of adjoining proprietors.

                            By Mr. FERGUSON: [123] To amend sec. 601 of the Practice Act,
                                approved June 18, 1852. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS. 

                            The PRESIDENT announced the consideration of the minority report of
                                the Committee on Federal Relations-identical with
                                joint resolution [S 4] on pages 44 and 45 of these Reports.

                            Mr. RAY, in behalf of a minority who voted for the resolution sending
                                commissioners to Washington, submitted their protest, which was
                                ordered to be spread upon the journals, as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                             Mr. President:
                                        

                                        The undersigned, Democratic members of the Senate, having
                                            voted on Thursday last in favor of the joint resolutions
                                            authorizing the Governor to appoint five commissioners
                                            to attend the conference of States at Washington city on
                                            the 4th of February, proximo, and having voted under
                                            protest, respectfully submit the following reasons for
                                            their vote, and ask that the same be spread on the
                                            journals of the Senate.

                                        We voted for the resolutions,notwithstanding the
                                            conditions and limitations imposed by them on the
                                            discretion and action of the commissioners, because we
                                            were deeply impressed, not only with our own
                                            responsibilities, but with the magnitude of the issues
                                            involved in the result of the proposed conference, and
                                            we hailed with pleasure any proposition coming from the
                                            Republican majority, which looked towards a peaceful
                                            solution of the grave controversies threatening our
                                            existence as a Nation.

                                        But while it was our pleasure to support the resolutions
                                            appointing said commissioners, we respectfully protest
                                            against sending commissioners to said conference with
                                            all discretion withheld, and all power abrogated, by the
                                            resolutions of their appointment, as amounting to a
                                            mocking of the patriotic ends of the conference proposed
                                            by Virginia and Kentucky, as trifling with the solemn
                                            facts and portentous signs of a revolutionary hour.

                                        We protest against the provision prohibiting the
                                            commissioners to act until nineteen States shall be
                                            represented in the conference, as evincing a purpose of
                                            preserving the politic forms of negotiation, while the
                                            powers to negotiate are withheld.

                                        We protest, also, against the provision of said
                                            resolution requesting the postponement of said
                                            conference, because every day's delay weakens the bonds
                                            of Union, and forces into view new obstacles to the
                                            peace and tranquility of the country.
                                        

                                        We also protest, because the resolutions do not indicate
                                            any, but virtually deny all, means of settling our
                                            National controversies by other means than the
                                            sword.

                                        And we especially protest against the Implied hostility
                                            contained in the resolution, to all measures of
                                            conciliation and compromise, as well as against the
                                            unfriendly and reluctant manner in which it has pleased
                                            the majority to respond to the fraternal invitations
                                            from Virginia and Kentucky, as manifesting a settled
                                            purpose to insure the failure of the conference.

                                        
                                            J. N. CONLEY, THOMAS E. COBB, M. W. SHIELDS, S.
                                                K. WOLFE, FRANKLIN LANDERS, SMITH JONES, JOHN C.
                                                SHOEMAKER, H. K. WILSON, M. M. RAY, THOMAS
                                                SHOULDERS, QUINTIN LOMAX, ARCH. JOHNSTON, M. T.
                                                CARNAHAN, A. B. LINE, C. P. FERGUSON, CORNELIUS
                                                O'BRIEN, W. C. TARKINGTON
                                        

                                    
                                
                            

                             On motion by Mr. BLAIR the consideration of the report was postponed
                                till Thursday next at 10 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            QUALIFICATION OF WITNESSES.
                            Mr. Newcombs bill [S. 5-described on p. 13 of these reports]-being
                                read the third time-

                            Mr. NEWCOMB said: Under the provision of the act of '52 there is a
                                section which is construed into authority to assign by simple
                                delivery notes and accounts. Under that practice the system has
                                grown up of assigning, so that a party owning them could become a
                                witness really in his own behalf, while the mouth of the defendant
                                has been closed. This bill is to remedy that abuse-to give the
                                defendant the same privilege, so both sides may be heard; and is not
                                confined to any particular cause of action but to all causes.

                            The bill finally passed by yeas 34, nays 7. 
                        
                        

                        
                            APPRAISERS OF REAL ESTATE.
                            Mr. Cravens's bill [S. 12see page 25] being read the third time-

                            Mr. CRAVEN said: This bill I presented at the instance of members of
                                the bar and judges in my county. A difficulty seems to present
                                itself with regard to the construction of the act of '52. That act
                                does not indicate where the appraisers may be taken from; while this
                                bill provides that the appraisers shall come from the county wherein
                                the land is situate.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I could not give my consent to this bill for the reason
                                that if lands are lying in contiguous counties, one set of
                                appraisers are as competent as would be a set in each county, as the
                                bill provides, which would add on a large expense to estates,
                                already over-burdened with taxation of costs. I know of no branch of
                                law where the expenses are so little cared for as that of the
                                settlement of decedent estates. I would suggest that the bill be
                                modified, so as to read that in cases where the land is situated in
                                one or more counties the court shall appoint, if necessary,
                                &c.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. I can see no objection to the amendment.

                            The amendment was agreed to by consent, and the bill, as amended,
                                finally passed by yeas 40, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            QUAILS AND PHEASANTS.
                            Mr. Claypool's bill [S. 19] being read the third time-

                            Mr. C. said: This bill provides for the taking of pheasants and
                                qnails the same length of time as is provided in the present law
                                only, it commences one month later in the fall continues one month
                                later in the winter [from the first of November to the first of
                                February. It also decreases the penalty one half]

                            Mr. CONLEY made an ineffectual motion to recommit with instructions
                                to amend, so as to allow persons to kill on their own premises at
                                any time.

                            The bill was finally passed by yeas 29 nays 10. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AGRICULTURAL BOARD ANNUAL MEETING
                            Mr. Line's bill [S. 24] being read the third time-

                            Mr. L. said: This bill simply requires the State Board of Agriculture
                                to hold their yearly meeting on the "Tuesday" instead of the
                                "Thursday" after the first Monday in January It was under
                                instructions from my own Agricultural Society that I introduced the
                                bill.

                            The bill was finally passed by yeas 39' nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE STATE BORROWING MONEY.
                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON the bill [H. R. 104-see page 111 and 117,
                                laid on the table last Monday]was taken up and read.

                            Mr. ANTHONY made an ineffectual motion-yeas 15, nays 22-to lay on the
                                table the pending motion to recommit with instructions to strike out
                                the words " sinking fund " and " seven per cent." wherever it
                                occurs, and insert the words "Bank of the State of Indiana" and "six
                                per cent."

                            The motion to recommit was then agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            LEAVE OF ABSENCE
                            Was obtained for Mr. DeHart during the week. 
                        
                        

                        
                            TRESPASS ON LANDS.
                            Mr. Turner's bill [S. 29-see page 45] being read the third time-

                            Mr. T. said : The only change made in the present law is the addition
                                of imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding twelve months. In a
                                great many instances those who are most frequently guilty you cannot
                                collect a fine from, and the only mode of correcting such would be
                                by imprisonment.

                            Mr. SHIELDS. I hope the bill will pass. It is certainly very much
                                needed. Mr. S. recited a case to the point, of recent
                                occurrence.

                            The bill was finally passed by yeas 38, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE PROTECTION OF FISH.
                            Mr, Claypool's bill [S. 40-see page 46] being read the third
                                time-

                            Mr. MILLER. I move to recommit that bill with the following
                                instructions: "Amend so as to include the St. Joseph river in the
                                proviso in the first section."

                            Mr. LINE. I find myself peculiarly situated with regard to this bill.
                                There was sent up to me a petition, numbering some 200  names, asking for a similar law. I
                                have received no remonstrance, but I have received a note from some
                                of my constituents, saying it would be doing them a wrong in
                                consequence of the interest some of them have in seines and other
                                fishing tackle. I believe it would be placing me right to ask a
                                recommittal with additional instructions to admit to fish with
                                seines from the first of September to the first of March.

                            Mr. ODELL. I move the following additional instructions, "except the
                                Tippecanoe river."

                            Mr. CARNAHAN. I move that the bill and pending instructions be
                                indefinitely postponed.

                            Mr. MARCH. I am not prepared to vote for the bill as it is. If there
                                was some provision put in the kill by which they could be taken at
                                certain periods, so as not to destroy the fish altogether, I would
                                vote for it.

                            Mr. LINE (interrupting.) My proposition is to limit the time from the
                                first of September to the first of March.

                            Mr. MARCH. I could vote for that.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN. I am decidedly opposed to the bill in every shape and
                                form.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I have no particular interest in this bill, but it
                                won't do for the gentleman from Franklin to back down from it, for
                                he is instructed by a petition as long as the moral law. In
                                obedience to instructions from my constituents I drafted this bill,
                                which is verbatim, except the provisos, with the law of Ohio. It is
                                time for the State of Indiana to protect not only her game, but her
                                fish. I hope Senators will not legislate against the interests of
                                any portion of the State, but look at this matter in its proper
                                light.

                            Mr. BLAIR. I would be glad to vote for the bill if amended in some
                                few particulars. I move to lay the motion to postpone on the
                                table.

                            The motion was agreed to by yeas 20, nays 13.

                            Motions to recommit, with instructions to amend, were made, as
                                follows:

                            By Mr. WOLFE: Except the streams in or bordering on Harrison or
                                Washington counties. 

                            By Mr. LANDERS: Except White River and White Lick.

                            By Mr. TURNER: Except Lake Michigan and the Kankakee and Calumet
                                rivers.

                            By Mr. COBB: Except White river, Salt creek, Indian creek,
                                Leatherwood, and Spider creeks, in Lawrence county.

                            By Mr. LOMAX: Leave out Orange and Crawford counties.

                            [Mr. LINE made an ineffectual demand for the previous question.]

                            By Mr. CONLEY: To permit the people of Greene and Owen counties to
                                seine or fish in any stream in either of said counties.

                            By Mr. BEARSS: Except Eel river.

                            By Mr. FERGUSON: It is held not to be lawful for any persod to catch
                                fish from any streams in this State, when said fish refuse to bite.
                                [Laughter.]

                            By Mr. RAY: Except Play river, Flat Rock, Sugar creek and Brandywine,
                                in Shelby and Hanoock counties.

                            By Mr. SHOULDERS: Strike out Dubois, Pika and Gibson counties.

                            By Mr. HALL: Except White river, Sugar creek and salt lick, in
                                Randolph county.

                            Mr. MURRAY made an ineffectual motion-yeas 18, nays 21-to lay these
                                instructions on the table.

                            Mr. MARCH. I believe there is a majority of this body in favor of
                                some legislation on this subject, and I trust we will not make
                                ourselves ridiculous in endeavoring to load this bill down with
                                instructions. These amendments, I suppose, every one of them to be
                                out of order, for the reason that they propose local
                                legislation.

                            Mr. WOLFE. I am free to say I am opposed to this bill in any shape or
                                form that gentleman can get it up. I believe that fish and wild
                                fowls are the property of the first takers, and I am opposed to
                                limiting the right; I think it wrong and arbitrary.

                            Mr. MILLER. I don't care anything about fishing; but we have a dam at
                                South Bend, across the St. Joseph river, which cost $40,000, another
                                at Mishawaka, which cost $35,000, and numerous dams across the
                                streams all over the country there. I thought the first instructions
                                I proposed would meet that objection, but believing now it does not,
                                I offer the following additional instructions: " That the provisions
                                of this bill shall not affect dams for water power already erected
                                or heretofore to be erected."

                            Mr. RAY. I object to the bill may-be, because I have no taste for
                                fishing. It is an inalienable right to fish it is said, and where
                                there is a right there ought to be a remedy, yet gentlemen propose
                                to cut off our remedy. 

                            Mr. MURRAY (interrupting.) I would ask the gentleman if he believes
                                all men have that right?

                            Mr. RAY. Except niggers. [Laughter.] If the bill has any application
                                to streams, big or little, in Shelby or Hancock counties, I propose
                                to vote against it.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. The provisions of that bill are intended to cover all
                                the small streams in the State. Science is developing the fact and
                                intelligence is making it known that there is not a bird that floats
                                upon the atmosphere but what is for some great and good purpose. No
                                gentleman can tell me whether the destruction of fowls has not
                                brought about the potato rot.

                            Mr. RAY (interrupting.) I can answer if the gentleman can answer me
                                whether the potato rot has produced the destruction of the
                                fowls.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I cannot answer. I should like to see the bill
                                recommitted with the proper instructions; I care not what they may
                                be.

                            [The President laid before the Senate a communication from the
                                Superintendent of the Deaf and Dumb Asylum, inviting Members to an
                                exhibition of pupils under his care; in compliance with a House
                                resolution, at Masonic Hall next Friday evening.]

                            The Senate then adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY, February 4,1861.
                        

                        
                            JEFFERSONVILLE PRISON.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Warden of
                                the Prison, responding to a resolution of the House of January 26th,
                                submitting the account of contractors with the Prison and the amount
                                due from each: which on the motion of Mr. BURNHAM, was referred to
                                the Committee on the Penitentiary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            VISIT OF THE PRESIDENT ELECT.
                            The SPEAKER aunounced the select committee to make arrangements for
                                the visit of the President elect on the 12th, viz: Messrs. Gresham,
                                Burgess, Bingham, Sherman, Brett, Jenkinson, and McLean. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.
                            By Mr. BUNDY, returning a resolution for amending the laws for the
                                punishment of crimes and misdemeanors so as to extend the statute of
                                limitations to five years, and reporting further legislation
                                inexpedient.

                            He also returned the resolution of inquiry whether there is any law
                                authorizing agricultural societies to hold real estate, and reported
                                that such societies have such power according to the provisions of
                                the act of February 7, 1855 ; that further action on the resolution
                                is inexpedient, and that it be laid on the table.

                            By Mr. VEATCH. returning the petition of Geo. McClure and others, of
                                Martin county, in relation to the killing of stock by railroad
                                companies, &c., and reporting that the laws now give ample
                                remedy in the case ; that fencing railroads was expedient and
                                proper, but not the work of the Committee; that the Committee cannot
                                recommend any measure that would make an insolvent corporation a
                                solvent one; and thereupon they report that the petition lie on the
                                table.

                            He also returned a resolution for the amendment of the law relative
                                to the pardoning power, so as to prevent the abuse thereof,
                                reporting legislation inexpedient, and that the resolution lie on
                                the table.

                            These reports were severally concurred in.

                            He also returned Mr. McLean's bill [33] to perfect the title of
                                purchasers of railroads on foreclosure of mortgages, &c., so as
                                to to enable them to organize and exercise corporate and other
                                powers, with amendments. That no sale under this act shall be valid
                                unless advertisement of time and place shall have made for 60 days
                                in some newspaper of general circulation in the City of New York and
                                in every country through which the road passes ; and other
                                provisions to save the rights of parties in pending actions.

                            After some conversation upon Mr. McLean's motion to print, in which
                                Messrs. Bundy, Frasier, Nebeker, Roberts, Ford, and Woodhull took
                                part-the latter promising a report adverse to the bill by a minority
                                of the Committee-

                            The amendments were adopted, and it was ordered that 200 copies of
                                the bill as as amended be printed.

                            Mr. VEATCH also returned the petition John Wheeler and others, of
                                Crown Point, in Lake county, for a law to punish timber stealing,
                                stating that said committee had already reported a bill on that
                                subject, and reporting a motion that the petition lie on the table. 

                            Mr. EDSON returned the resolution for amendment of the execution
                                laws, so that no person shall be entitled to their benefit of
                                exemptions unless he make out and present to the sheriff an
                                inventory of all his property and reported further legislation on
                                the subject inexpedient.

                            Mr. BINGHAM returned the resolution for amendment of the law
                                concerning justices of the peace, so as to require them to make out
                                a list of unpaid fees every three months, and reported, legislation
                                inexpedient thereon.

                            Mr. EDSON returned the resolution for amendment of the law, so as to
                                allow justices of the peace a fee of one dollar on every case and
                                reported, legislation inexpedient.

                            Mr. CASON returned the resolution for amendment of the law, so that
                                none but the proper officer shall receive the proceeds of execution,
                                and reported, further legislation inexpedient, and that the
                                resolution lie on the table.

                            Mr. NEBEKER resisted the report-wanted a bill favoring the
                                resolution. A sheriff could not collect his fees under a recent
                                decision of the Supreme Court.

                            Mr. VEATCH. It might be the committee had not understood the object
                                of the author of the resolution, (Mr. Smith, of Bartholomew.) But
                                the change the language indicated was eminently wrong. If a decision
                                had been made which cuts the sheriff out of his fees, the remedy
                                would be in a bill to amend the law regulating fees. He promised a
                                report on that matter.

                            These several reports from the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary were concurred in.

                            Mr. BINGHAM, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts of Justice, returned Mr. McClurg's bill [22] to
                                repeal the act establishing Courts of Conciliation, recommending its
                                passage.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            He also returned Mr. Cameron's bill [58] to amend section 42 of the
                                act establishing the Common Pleas, so as to regulate the docketing,
                                &c., recommending indefinite postponement.

                            He also returned the resolution for justices of the peace to hear
                                evidence and try cases in the absence of the plan tiff.

                            These reports were severally concurred in.

                            Mr. McCLURG, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Dobbins's bill [60,]
                                providing that railroads shall deposit bonds and freehold
                                securities, as a lien for damages on account of stock killed by  them with amendments; striking
                                out "Knox"and inserting " Marion;" striking out "Ohio and
                                Mississippi," and inserting " all."

                            On motion by Mr. McCLURG it was laid on the table-Mr; Dobbins being
                                absent.

                            Mr. ANDERSON, from the Committee on engrossed
                                    bills, reported that said committee had examined the
                                engrossed bills numbered 9, 36, 41, 42, 44, 52, 69, 81, and found
                                them to have been correctly engrossed.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, from the Select Committee on the resolution
                                with reference to losing fences at the crossings of streams of
                                tester, submitted an adverse report, and asked to be discharged.

                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.
                            The following new bills were introduced and passed to the second
                                reading:

                            Mr. DAVIS. [164] To authorize the Auditor of State to loan funds
                                arising from estates without heirs-[as other school funds are
                                loaned.]

                            Mr. BLACK: [165] To amend section 3 of the Common Pleas Act of March
                                5, 1855-[changing the times in Dubois, Spencer,Perry, Crawford and
                                Orange.]

                            Mr. POLK : [166] In relation to Dogs-[one dollar tax.]

                            Mr. ROBERTS: [167] Concerning notes, bills of exchange, and other
                                instruments of writing.

                            Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe: [168] Authorizing suits for alimony, and
                                the disposition of property in certain cases.

                            Mr. VEATCH: [169] To provide for a change of venue in actions; for
                                another judge to preside where there is incompetency ; and to repeal
                                former laws on the subject.

                            Mr. VEATCH: [170] Authorizing the County Board to procure and
                                preserve the history of their counties, and to pay the expenses
                                thereof.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS: [171] To amend sec. 15 of the act concerning promissory
                                notes and bills of exchange[taking away the validity of the clause,
                                "waiving the benefit of valuation and appraisement laws."]

                            Mr. KENDRICK: [172] To amend the first and second sections of the act
                                prescribing the number and defining the powers and duties of
                                Constables. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEES PAID THE ATTORNEY GENERAL:
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Auditor of
                                State, responding to a resolution of the House of the 17th inst,
                                calling for a statement of the fees paid to the Attorney General
                                since the 1st of January, 1859. The total amount being $900.

                            On motion of Mr. WOODHULL, it was referred to the Committee
                                    on Ways and Means.

                            Mr. ORR submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                    Committee on Education inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the law that the tax collected in each county
                                for school purposes shall be expended therein, and distributed
                                according to the number of scholars in each township.

                            Mr. - submitted an order, which was adopted, directing the Clerk to
                                deliver the Journal of the House to the State Printer, and that the
                                Printer proceed with the printing of the same, and complete it at as
                                early a day as possible. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                            The SPEAKER now announced the consideration of the unfinished
                                business, being the consideration of the majority and minority
                                reports of the Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. CASON. It was his intention to be brief. He would confine himself
                                to the consideration of the minority report. Its friends tell us we
                                should sink the partizan in the patriot ; yet there is nothing but
                                party in the report itself-nothing but an effort to restore the
                                Democratic party. It charges all kinds of sentiments against the
                                Republican party. It proposes sacrifices on the altar of our
                                country. Sacrifices of principle were an abomination, but there was
                                only the pretence here. The Republicans had proposed the enforcement
                                of the laws to preserve the Union. The official oath of every
                                officer in the land required this; and a failure would be perjury.
                                The Democrats propose concession for their remedy. The Democratic
                                party was ever a party of concession. The South never made a demand
                                that they were not ready to concede. He quoted from the bill of
                                rights of the Virginia Colony before the revolution, recognizing the
                                right of all to "life and liberty, with the means of acquiring and
                                possessing property, and pursuing and obtaining happiness and
                                safety," and referred to the ordinance of 1787, as Republican in
                                doctrine; and proceeded at length to show what the Democracy
                                conceded in 1820 in the Missouri Compromise, and then cut it down
                                under another demand from the South in 1854. They would, if let
                                alone, give up everything demanded, till the whole country shall be
                                covered all over with the curse and blight of slavery. They lived on
                                concession. It was the very life of the party-they all fattened on
                                it. Did they not now encourage the Southern treason? They said
                                100,000 Indianians would stand against coercion. The South would not
                                take a step backward after such words of encouragement. This was all
                                the South wanted.

                            He replied to Mr. Jenkinson's doctrine-the necessity for the
                                extension of slavery to give freedom to these States. Should slavery
                                have the first fruits of the virgin soil of this whole continent to
                                the valley of the Amazon ? The Democracy were sticklers for the
                                Union, but they cared nothing for principles. They do not propose to
                                preserve the Union as it is, but as it may be after they have
                                yielded every demand of the South. They would give up the freedom of
                                speech and: of the press, and the power to extend slavery
                                indefinitely. Then  they would
                                stand bravely and defend a dishonored flag.

                            The Republicans propose to preserve the Union as our fathers made it.
                                Anything the Constitution requires was not concession. They would
                                maintain the Constitution as it is. But Mr. Jenkinson, as a last
                                resort, proposes peaceable division. There was nothing that might be
                                settled by treaty out of the Union, but could be better settled in
                                the Union, under the Constitution. The true remedy was, to abide by
                                the Constitution strictly on all hands, and do our duty faithfully,
                                and make no concessions.

                            He concluded by a respectful, but most explicit and emphatic dissent
                                from the minority declaration about 100,000 Indianians resisting the
                                enforcement of the laws by the national government.

                            Mr. ROBERTS hoped to be able to rise above the partizan, and address
                                himself to the questions here involved as an American citizen. It
                                was maintained by secessionists that the confederation was simply a
                                mere compact, and that any State can release themselves at pleasure.
                                This was Mr. Calhoun's doctrine. A strange doctrine. It was going
                                back to the old confederation. That was found insufficient by our
                                ancestors, and the formation of the Constitution for the government
                                of the United States became a necessity. He quoted from John Quincy
                                Adams, the following: 

                            "The Constitution of the United States was a return to the principles
                                of the Declaration of Independence, and the exclusive constituent
                                power of the people. That it was the work of the one people of the
                                United States; and that those United States, though doubled in
                                numbers, still constitute, as a nation, but one people."

                            He quoted also from Mr. Webster's works, vol. iii. p. 464:

                            "The Constitution of the United States is not a league,confederacy,
                                or compact between the people of the several States in their
                                sovereign capacity; but a government pro-per, founded on the
                                adoption of the people, and creating direct relations between itself
                                and individuals."

                            It were useless to multiply authorities, but he would read the
                                preamble of the Constitution of the United States, to show that the
                                Constitution operated on individual citizens, as well as on the
                                States. It was the supreme law of the land; and those refusing to
                                yield submission, must be compelled. Secession was rebellion-civil
                                war, if carried on in blood-it was classed with the highest crimes
                                known to the law. If the general government objects to secession,
                                and secessionists persist, it was treason. As a Democrat he was in
                                favor of the enforcement of the laws, let the consequences be what
                                they may. At the same time he abhorred civil war. But should we give
                                up the Constitution to gratify South Carolina? [Never.] He would
                                never favor such a policy-never advocate the right of a State to
                                secede in disregard of constitutional laws. He was not in favor of
                                coercing a State. A State was an ideal thing; but the Constitution
                                and laws of the United States operate on the people, and, when
                                violated, their enforcement-was against individuals-as in the cases
                                execution and violation of the fugitive slay law. Then with what
                                consistiency could & man say, if the people of Charleston,
                                Cincinnati, Chicago or Detroit, resist the collection of the
                                revenue, they should not be punished? He was gratified at the
                                introduction of the resolution of Mr. Jenkinson for punishment of
                                the men that fired on the Star of the West. Mr. Heffren would say
                                100,000 would resist the enforcement of the laws he begged him not
                                to include the Democracy Of the Fourth Congressional district. He
                                expressed his warm admiration of the course of Senator Johnson, of
                                Tennessee, and others, in the present crisis, including Mr. Holman,
                                his district's representative. But his ears were not deaf to the
                                voice of compromise. He would accept anything fair and honorable on
                                both sides. He objected to the assailment of the Christian ministry
                                in the minority report And if the report can bear the construction'
                                that the Democracy will resist the execution of the laws, he could
                                give it no countenance whatever. He was for the Union as it has
                                been, now is, and he hoped ever would be. To countenance the
                                non-enforcement of the laws was anarchy-despotism. To prevent the
                                effusion of blood he was willing to accept the Border States
                                proposition, or the Crittenden amendments. The fathers were all
                                concession men the Huguenot of South Carolina, the Catholic of
                                Maryland, the Quaker of Pennsylvania. But those who had trampled on
                                the Constitution should not escape condign punishment. 

                            He had understood that Governor Morton issued circulars to those men
                                whom he appointed to ascertain their views on the propositions of
                                remedy. He disliked that; for it was desirable that these men should
                                go up uninstructed and untrammeled, to consider of the terms of
                                conciliation. Indiana should have responded to the call of Virginia,
                                without qualification, because we came out from her. He would hail
                                with great delight a favorable consummation of the labors of the
                                Washington convention which convenes this day. He felt the solemn
                                responsibility of his own position here, on this question, and was
                                earnest for the perpetuity of the Union.

                            Mr. GRESHAM considered the minority report. It assumes that the
                                difficulty arose out of the infidelity of the North to the
                                Constitution. Hardly a Democrat could believe that. He took the
                                admission of Mr. Jenkinson, that the South wanted the extension of
                                slavery, and that the Republican platform was in the way of that. He
                                believed that if the Union were dissolved, it would be because the
                                North had conceded too much. Now it was demanded that slaves should
                                be recognized as property, and be taken to the Territories and be
                                protect ed as such. If a slave was property, as a horse, where was
                                the necessity for a fugitive slave law? That law was an admission
                                     against the assumption.
                                The assumption that slaves are recognized as property in the
                                Constitution, was new. The power of Congress over the institution,
                                and the anti-slavery policy of the early days of the government, was
                                seen in the ordinance of 1787. The same principle was recognized in
                                1820 in the Missouri Compromise, which was disregarded in 1850, and
                                removed in 1854, upon the demand of the South. Even Mr. Pugh
                                acknowledged lately in Cincinnati, that the great mistake of the
                                Democracy was in their submission to the slave power. His effort was
                                to show that the North was not in the wrong in this conflict. He
                                read from the minority report to show that it was to be understood
                                as justifying the South, as sternly and properly protecting their
                                own rights." This was also endorsed by Mr. Heffren, in his speech
                                last Friday. He could hardly expect to hear the endorsement of this
                                doctrine from any other man on this floor. Secession was
                                justifiable! Resistance to the laws was justifiable !! He indicated
                                the inconsistency of Mr. Heffren's position in this speech, with the
                                doctrine of the first report of the Committee of Thirteen, to which
                                he was fully committed. How could he say, after that, that he would
                                interpose his body as a rampart, to resist the Federal force called
                                out to execute the laws of the South? In a time like this, he could
                                co-operate heartily with the gentleman from Dearborn, except that he
                                could not go with him for the Crittenden amendments. Mr. Heffren,
                                but seven days before his speech last Friday, declared, also, that
                                he could not accept the Crittenden propositions. That Crittenden
                                amendment would be construed so as to carry slavery where the people
                                do not want it. He could not endorse that. He did not think the
                                common mind could submit to that anywhere. Such a thing to be done
                                for compromise and peace ! It was a plan to subjugate the majority
                                in the Southern Territories. Was not the conscience of the Northern
                                to be respected ?

                            Mr. ATKISSON. The people can make their State Constitution free.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. Certainly. But he assumed that the power of the
                                Government would drive out the majority, and force the adoption of
                                slavery. He recognized fraternity with the South. He would concede
                                some things. He would divide the territory now free, and say, North
                                of that line it shall be free-South slave, subject to popular will,
                                without question or restraint. He could never consent to a
                                proposition that would not recognize the control of the majority in
                                all cases. He did not believe in the patriotism of South Carolina.
                                That vanished in their response to the call of Virginia. In that
                                they declared that their separation to be final, and they would have
                                no compromise. Such a people, if they ever came into the Union, it
                                would be the force of necessity that would drive them back. The
                                minority report also stated, by indirection, that the Douglas
                                platform was a mere empty abstraction, to be given up for peace-to
                                be"laid as a sacrifice upon the altar of our country." It is called
                                "a specious fallacy in regard to slavery." Was popular sovereignty a
                                specious fallacy ? Would Democrats submit now to what they declared
                                at Charleston they never would? He believed that Democrats here in
                                this minority report were committed to that which their maturer
                                judgment could not sanction. The man that puts himself in the way of
                                resisting the enforcement of the laws, puts himself necessarily in
                                the position of a rebel and a traitor. He believed that some men, in
                                the ardor of speech, said things stronger than they think or feel.
                                He felt called on to dissent from the declaration of Mr. Heffren. He
                                gave him the benefit of the explanation, that he would resist
                                coercion against States, as States. The punishment of rebels and
                                resistants of the laws, was quite a different thing from war against
                                a State. He hoped to hear further Democratic expositions of this
                                minority report.

                            Mr. McCLURG next obtained the floor.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG obtained leave of absence.

                            Mr. ROBERTS submitted an order, which was adopted, requiring the
                                chairmen of committees to give notice to the authors bills, of the
                                time they will be reported.

                            The House then adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 5,1861.
                        

                         Mr. ROBINSON presented a petition from the Mount Sterling Turnpike Co.,
                            praying an amendment to their charter, so that they can charge a higher
                            rate of toll, which was read and referred to the Committee on
                                Corporations.

                        Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned his
                            embezzlement bill [S. 1]-see page 6-with amendments recommending
                            passage. 

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were passed the first reading, without objection
                                :

                            By Mr. MELLETT: [124] An act authorizing Circuit Courts to hold
                                adjourned and special terms fixing the compensation of Judges and
                                Prosecuting Attorneys thereof, and to legalize terms heretofore
                                held.

                            By Mr. TARKINGTON : [125] To subdivide tracts of land in the several
                                townships of Monroe and Gibson counties.

                            By Mr. LOMAX : [126] To repeal so much of an act to provide for
                                equalizing the appraisement for taxation of real property, approved
                                May 28, 1852, as authorizes the holding of District and State Boards
                                of Equalization.

                            By Mr. ROBINSON: [127] Authorizing County Auditors to issue fee
                                bills. 
                        
                        

                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
                            Announced the passage by that body of the bill [H. R. 119-see page
                                121;] also, the bill [H. R. 152-see page 136.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                            Mr. JONES made an ineffectual motion-yeas 20, nays 24-to suspend the
                                order of business, and take up his motion submitted some days since,
                                to re-consider the vote adopting the resolution referring all
                                matters concerning the affairs of the country to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations.

                            Mr. SHOULDERS presented resolutions adopted at a mass meeting of the
                                Democracy of Gibson county, recently, having reference to the state
                                of the Union; which were read.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL presented a preamble and resolutions adopted by a
                                conservative meeting of citizens of Fayette county ; (the Democracy,
                                finding themselves in a minority, as is usual in that county, having
                                seceded,) which were read.

                            These were referred to the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations.

                            Mr. SLACK presented resolutions, desiring that they be read.

                            Mr. CONNER, and others, objecting-

                            The PRESIDENT decided them out of order, unless a motion be made to
                                suspend the order of business.

                            Mr. SHOULDERS made that motion.

                            On motion by Mr.ANTHONY-yeas 25,nays 21-the motion was laid on the
                                table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE PROTECTION OF FISH.
                            The PRESIDENT announced the consideration of the unfinished business
                                of yesterday being Mr. Claypool's bill [S. 40see page 46] on the
                                third reading. A motion pending to re-commit, with sundry
                                instructions-

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. I desire to propose additional instructions, for the
                                reason that I know the provisions of the bill will not suit a
                                portion of my constituents. Amend so as to exempt the St. Mary's
                                river.

                            Mr. SLACK: So amend as to authorize the taking of catfish and suckers
                                at any season.

                            Mr. ODELL: So amend the bill as that the restrictions shall have no
                                force or effect except from the first day of May to first day of
                                October of each year; and not to prohibit the construction of dams
                                across streams for water power purposes.

                            The bill was recommitted, with the various instructions offered
                                yesterday and to-day. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SHEEP KILLED BY DOGS.
                            Mr. Jones' bill [S. 16-see page 30] being read the third time-

                            Mr. J. said : The bill simply provides for procuring statistics as to
                                the number of sheep killed or injured by dogs, and their value, not
                                providing any remedy whatever.

                            Mr. LINE. Some Senators may feel disposed to vote against this bill
                                because of the increased expense. But it is the only way we can get
                                tangible data. Ohio has adopted a similar law.

                            Bill finally passed by yeas 43, nays 2.

                            [On motion by Mr. LANDERS, his bill [S. 49-see page 69] was taken
                                from the table and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF TRIALS.
                            Mr. Conner's bill [S. 18-see page 30] being read the third time-

                            Mr. C. said : This bill is simply to limit the time of publication
                                from sixty days to thirty days. Under the change now proposed,
                                fifty, one days will have to intervene from the first publication to
                                the day of trial; and that is deemed amply sufficient as a notice to
                                non residents.

                            Bill finally passed by yeas 46, nays 1. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONVEYANCE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
                            Mr. Shoemaker's bill [S. 26see page 30 of these Reports] being read
                                the third time-

                            Mr. S. said : While this bill is general in its terms, it is entirely
                                local in its application and can in no manner affect any county but
                                the county of Perry, which I represent, and the citizens of which
                                desire its passage.

                            Mr. Line and Mr. Mellett, having been on the Committee to which it
                                was referred, assured the Senate the bill could affect no other
                                county than Perry.

                            Mr. ANTHONY was opposed to this kind of legislation, but acceding to
                                the representations of the Senator who introduced the bill, would
                                vote for it.

                            Bill finally passed by yeas 43, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            TRACT BOOKS, ETC., EVIDENCE.
                            Mr. Wilson's bill [S. 44-see page 69 of these reports,] being read
                                the third time-

                            Mr. MARCH. The object of this bill is to supply a defect in evidence
                                relating to date of entry of lands. It is in substance the law in
                                existence in '43, but omitted in the statutes of '52. It makes tract
                                books, catalogues, &c., prima facia evidence
                                of the facts stated in them relating to the title of land.

                            Bill finally passed by yeas 47, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTER OF SUPREME COURT.
                            Mr. Mellett's bill [S. 45-see page 69 of these reports,] being read
                                the third time-

                            Mr. MILLER moved to recommit to the Judiciary
                                    Committee, with instructions to amend so as to allow
                                the Reporter, in his discretion, to publish in the reports
                                references to cases cited in the briefs of counsel, not exceeding
                                twenty-five pages in each volume.

                            Upon Mr. Mellett's assurance that the bill provides as this amendment
                                proposes, Mr. Miller withdrew his amendment.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to recommit, with instructions to provide that if
                                the decisions of a single term shall not amount to the number of
                                pages now required by law, the Reporter may, notwithstanding,
                                publish a separate volume for each term.

                            Mr. HAMILTON offered additional instruc tions, so that no more shall be charged
                                for the publication than a proportionate amount, equal to $3 per 600
                                pages.

                            The motions were agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STRUCK JURIES FOR CIRCUIT AND COMMON PLEAS
                                COURTS.
                            Mr. Newcomb's bill [S. 49see page 69 o these reports,] being read the
                                third time-

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. This bill provides that either party may notify the
                                other that they want a special jury ; the clerk selects a num ter of
                                names, each party strikes off twelve leaving a sufficient margin for
                                challenge. I is very rare that cases requiring such juries may come
                                up, but in settlement of co-partnership of long standing, &c.,
                                they are sometimes needed.

                            The bill finally passed by yeas 32, nays 10 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON PLEAS COURTS IN NEW COUNTIES.
                            Mr. Turner's bill [S. 54-see page 69 of these reports,] being read
                                the third time-

                            Mr. TURNER. There is now no law for holding common pleas courts in
                                new counties and this bill provides the same means for common pleas
                                that are provided for circuit courts. I don't know of but one county
                                in the State which it will affect, and that is Newton county.

                            Bill finally passed by yeas 40, nays 1. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON PLEAS ATTORNEY'S SALARY.
                            Mr. Line's bill [S. 54-see page 69 of these reports,] being read the
                                third time-

                            Mr. L. said. I introduced this bill at the instance of a friend, with
                                the understanding that it might take its course. I believe he was a
                                district attorney.

                            Mr. WOLFE moved to recommit the bill with instructions to strike out
                                all that portion of the bill requiring the payment of the common
                                pleas prosecutor's fees out of the county treasury in case of
                                insolvency of the defendant.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. I have no doubt but there ought to be some provision
                                made for the payment of prosecuting attorneys, since the change of
                                law giving common pleas courts jurisdiction in felonies, most of
                                those cases are tried in that court. It so happens that most persons
                                convicted of that kind of offense have nothing from which costs can
                                be collected, and necessarily forces the prosecuting attorney to
                                prosecute without compensation. We pay circuit prosecutors a good
                                salary, and their labor is not as much as the common pleas
                                prosecutors. When an attorney goes into a case of importance, with
                                the fact staring him in the face that he is to receive no
                                compensation, he goes into it reluctantly.

                            Mr. MlLLER. I hope the bill will not be recommitted. The only
                                objection is, that it does not give the district prosecutor fees
                                enough. There was a difference of opinion between the members of the
                                    Judiciary Committee upon this bill. It seems
                                to me folly to enact penal statute laws for the punishment of
                                crimes, have courts for the trial of criminals, elect prosecutors to
                                conduct these trials, and then knock the whole thing in the head by
                                refusing to pay the prosecutor anything for his labor. This is the
                                reason why our laws are not enforced any better than they are; this
                                is the reason why so many criminals go unpunished. The
                                administration of ,our penal laws has become so lame, it is
                                unfrequent that we have a conviction of any high crime in this
                                State. I think the prosecutors ought to have a salary in addition to
                                what this bill gives, of $300, and then I doubt whether you could
                                get attorneys of talent, energy, and learning sufficient for the
                                place, to take the office. It is a very responsible position, and
                                one in which the officer ought to be well paid. You can not expect
                                men to work for nothing. So long as you fail to pay your attorneys,
                                so long will you fail to have a just execution of the laws. I
                                believe in bringing criminals to justice, and preserving the purity
                                of society as far as possible.

                            Mr. HAMILTON moved additional instructions, giving the prosecutor
                                $400 a year out of the State Treasury, and a fee of $5 on all
                                convictions on plea of not guilty; $2 50 for conviction on plea of
                                guilty, the docket fee to be collected from the defendant. 

                            Mr. WOLFE. I am in favor of paying prosecuting attorneys well for
                                their services; in fact I am in favor of all persons who labor for
                                the country being paid a just compensation. I understand the bill
                                before the Senate amply pays without making the county treasury pay
                                in addition. Most of these cases would be gotten up for the express
                                purpose, I fear, of saddling costs upon the county treasury.
                                Attorneys are very fond of fees. I am opposed to any further drafts
                                upon the county treasury for any purposes whatever.

                            Mr. CRAVEN. It appears to me the Senator from Harrison misunderstands
                                the provision of the bill. He objects to it because he supposes some
                                corrupt prosecutor for the purpose of getting fees will bring up a
                                great many cases before the courts for trial. By the terms of the
                                bill there is not one dollar going to the prosecutor, except in case
                                of conviction. I am opposed to the instructions oming from the
                                Senator from Allen, [Mr. Hamilton.]

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I favor the bill as a matter of economy. The present
                                system of common pleas prosecuting is a perfect farce, and I believe
                                if this bill were passed it would intro-duce a better class of
                                prosecuting attorneys. Make them a fair allowance to be paid out of
                                he county treasury, for if it is to be paid by the defendant it is
                                never paid; hardly ever.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. I think Senators in this bill have overshot the mark. I
                                think the object of this bill is to raise to the dignity of a high
                                and responsible office attorneys in the various common pleas
                                districts of this State where there is comparatively no criminal
                                business. Go into the large cities, and you will find that you have created a
                                general act that will pay prosecuting attorneys $10,000 per year.
                                Nearly this entire compensation would have to come out of the
                                country treasury, because there are scarcely ever any persons
                                convicted who can pay. I want to pay them a fair and liberal
                                compensation, but as I said at first I think gentlemen have rather
                                overshot the mark. I am in favor of recommittal.

                            Mr. MELLETT. I am not prepared to vote for this bill as it is. I
                                think the trouble exists from the fact that we have two courts of
                                criminal jurisdiction. If we had but one court and a prosecutor with
                                a salary of $500 and fees, it would be a good office, commanding the
                                best legal talent in the State.

                            Mr. MARCH. With all deference to the arguments of Senators, I do not
                                believe gentlemen can better the bill, I believe it will provide
                                reasonable compensation for the prosecutor, and will call into
                                requisition parties able to discharge their duties. Now the common
                                pleas prosecutor gets almost nothing, and this is to supply that
                                deficiency in the law.

                            Mr. WHITE. I would prefer this bill to any instructions offered. As I
                                understand it under the present system the prosecutor can prosecute
                                just such cases as he pleases; in other words, he is both
                                prosecuting attorney and grand jury. No matter how full of criminals
                                the jail is, except those whose crimes are punishable by death, he
                                can exercise his own volition whether to prosecute or not. I think
                                the prosecuting attorney ought to be paid well for his services. I
                                am for paying officers in order to bring out talent; but there are
                                many who would lay still on a salary and never show themselves in
                                court. 

                            Mr. SHIELDS. If there is any thing above another the tax-payer
                                complains of it is paying officers and not knowing what we are
                                paying them. The biggest tax-payer in the county can hardly answer
                                the question, what is the salary of your county officers ? Why are
                                these sums so large? It conies just in the same way this bill
                                provides. Let the provision be that the compensation shall under no
                                circumstances reach so and so. We ought to reflect before passing
                                this bill.

                            Mr. RAY. I do not fear the pay of the prosecuting attorney will
                                become excessive. If I thought I could bring the people to realize
                                what a mockery our whole judicial system is the extent of the
                                judicial degredation of this State growing out of reckless, hasty,
                                and in some instances, ignorant legislation of the few years past;
                                or if I was not sure we were not going to have any re-organization
                                of the judiciary, I would vote for the bill. The whole system is
                                sunken and we should re-model it. I believe if the common pleas
                                court were abolished and the whole business of that court committed
                                to the circuit court, give the prosecutors a stated salary of $1000
                                and then you can command the services of able men who will discharge
                                the duties with honor to to themselves and justice to the public. I
                                believe the saving to the State would be about one-third of the
                                present expenditure of the whole judicial system.

                            Mr. COBB. I agree with the Senator from Shelby, in reference to our
                                judicial system; but I do not believe there should be any radical
                                change as to that system now, therefore I am anxious we should do
                                all we can to per feet the system as it is. I am opposed to all the
                                amendments. I can see that the spirit of this bill is correct.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I am in favor of the bill with the following
                                additional instructions: "In no case shall the Board of
                                Commissioners pay any of said fees until the clerk of the Court
                                shall certify that said fees cannot be collected of the
                                defendant."

                            Mr. WOLF. Instead of abolishing the common pleas system, I would
                                strike from it all criminal jurisdiction. If you give the probate
                                system to the circuit court or to the clerk by a surrogate system it
                                will never be attended to properly. * * * The prosecuting attorney
                                is amply paid under the provisions of this bill without taxing the
                                county treasury one cent.

                            Mr. MURRAY. If the bill is to be recommitted I desire to offer the
                                following instructions in accordance with the request of the
                                district attorney of the common pleas court in my county: "Strike
                                out all after the enacting clause," &c., giving a salary of $300
                                out of State Treasury : and two fees of $5 and $3 each, $2 50 and $
                                2, to be recovered from the defendant.

                            The bill was recommitted with several instructions by way of
                                amendment.

                            Mr. MARCH offered instructions, which were referred by consent,
                                adding to the last section that the county commissioners shall make
                                no allowance for fees for the district attorney, under the
                                provisions of this act, until furnished with a certificate of the
                                clerk of the court stating that the defendent is insolvent; the
                                attorney shall receive no compensation from the public treasury
                                except as provided in this act, and on failure to attend the court
                                shall appoint a substitute who shall receive compensation out of his
                                fees.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 5,1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. STOTSENBERG, it was ordered that the State Historical
                            Society have the use of this Hall to-morrow evening.

                        Mr. HAYES (by unanimous consent,) submitted a resolution, which was
                            adopted, instructing the Judiciary Committee to
                            inquire into the constitutionality of a law apportioning the State for
                            senatorial and representative purposes, having been made under the
                            Constitutional provision in the 4th section of the 4th article. 

                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. STOTSENBURG presented the petition of sundry citizens of
                                Clarksville, in Clark county, submitting that the fund referred to
                                in the 16th section of the schedule of the Constitution, are not
                                applied according to the intention of that instrument, and asking
                                for legislation in the premises. It was referred to the
                                    Committee on Education. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            On motion by Mr. DAVIS, the House proceeded to the consideration of
                                bills on the second reading.

                            Mr. Orr's bill [87,] exempting parsonages from taxation ; Mr. Kurd's
                                bill [95,] to provide a board of seven examiners for physicians and
                                surgeons, with Mr. Roberts' s amendment for three members of the
                                board in each Congressional district; and Mr. Stotsenberg's
                                amendment for defining specifically the misdemeanor to be punished,
                                were severally referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.

                            Mr. Packard's bill [88,] to repeal section 13 Of the justices' act;
                                Mr. Gifford's bill [92,] prescribing the duties of clerks, justices,
                                auditors, and treasurers, in reference to jury fees, fines,
                                forfeitures, and unclaimed fees ; Mr. Atkisson's bill [98,] to amend
                                section 3 of the act of March 5, 1859, requiring surviving partners
                                to file inventory, &c.; Mr. Brucker's bill [99,] to amend the
                                act for the safekeeping of the public moneys; Mr. Packard's select
                                committee bill [109,] to regulate insurance prior to the 17th of
                                June, 1852 ; and Mr. Erwin's bill [113,] to amend the recorder's act
                                of May 21, 1857, were severally referred to the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Henricks's bill [97,] to amend sections 6, and 7 of the divorce
                                act of March 13, '52; Mr. Atkisson's bill [96,] to amend sections 2,
                                3, 4, and 5 of the act for working highways on county lines; Mr.
                                Williams's bill [103,] to providing bridges across streams dividing
                                counties, were severally referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. Roberts's bill [89,] to amend section 9 of the general banking
                                law, and Mr. Hayes's bill [111,] to amend section 6 of the general
                                banking law of March 13, '55, with Mr. Edson's amendment, "That no
                                stocks or bonds shall be deposited except Indianas and United
                                States," were referred to the Committee on
                                Banks.

                            On the motion of Ms. STOTSENBERG, Mr. Collins of Whitley's bill
                                [152,] to amend section 19 of the common pleas act of March 5, 1859,
                                (affecting the terms in Whitley county, &c.,) was considered,
                                and passed the third reading in the House of Representatives-yeas
                                73, nays 6.

                            A Senate message announced the passage of sundry bills.

                            Mr. Turner's bill [90,] providing for registration and defining the
                                residence of voters ; and Mr. Dobbin's bill [110,] to amend section
                                4 of the act regulating special elections, were referred to the
                                    Committee on Elections.

                            Mr. Collins of Whitley's bill [93,] apportionment for senatorial and
                                represeutative purposes, was referred to the Committee of Eleven on
                                that subject.

                            Mr. McLean's bill [94,] appartioning the pay of common pleas Judges
                                amongst the counties, was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. Brucker's bill [100,] to authorize county commissioners to sign
                                certificates of purchase of saline lands for school house sites,
                                &c., was referred to the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.

                            Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bill [101,] to repeal two sections of the
                                act of Feb. 12, 1855, extending terms of circuit courts by
                                adjournment, &o., was referred to the Committee on
                                    Organization of Courts of Justice. 
                        
                        

                        
                            GAME LAW.
                            The bill from the Committee on Rights [102,] to
                                amend sections 3 and 4 of the game law, coming up-

                            Mr. WOODS proposed to amend the section relating to prairie hens, by
                                striking out "the first of August" and inserting "the first of
                                September." It was well known that during the month of August the
                                prairie hens were so small that they were not worth killing ; and
                                the Chicago hunters invaded the fields of the farmers at a time when
                                they could not take part in killing the birds they had fed,
                                &c.

                            Mr. MOODY. August was the best month in the year to hunt prairie
                                hens. The gentleman could gain his object by adding a penalty to
                                prevent hunters from entering inclosures, and he would vote for it.
                                On his motion, the amendment was laid on the table.

                            The bill was then ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE MILITIA.
                            Mr. Gresham's bill [105,] for the organization of the militia, to
                                provide a military fund, to provide for its disbursement, &c.,
                                coming up-it was passed the second reading, by title, under a
                                dispensation.

                            Mr. ROBERTS proposed various amendments, and moved that the bill with
                                the amendments be referred to the Committee on Military
                                    Affairs. He did not think this bill, in its present
                                shape, could ever pass this House. Its passage and approval by the
                                Governor would be equivalent to the passage of a military despotism
                                in this State. The people of Indiana would not comply with its
                                provisions-never would submit to them. Courts martial, by this bill,
                                were invested with as much power ac the Circuit and Common Pleas
                                Courts in time of peace: and it gives into the Governor's hands as
                                much power as that exercised by the Czar of Russia. Whenever he
                                believes the public danger requires it, he has the power to compel
                                every man in the State required to bear arms to muster into active
                                service. It was left to his discretion. In his opinion,when the
                                exigencies of war require it, there is love of country enough to
                                respond to the proper  call
                                from the General Government, and rally to the standard by thousands
                                and tens of thousands. The history of the Mexican war showed this.
                                There were more troops volunteered than- there were places for
                                them.

                            The bill was referred to the Military Committee.

                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, his bill [146] regulating the same
                                interest, was taken up,, passed to the second reading by title,
                                (under dispensation,) and referred to the same Committee.

                            The Judiciary Committee's bills [106, 107] to
                                amend the 12th section of the misdemeanor act. of June 15, 1852, and
                                to amend section 343 of the Practice Act, were ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            Mr. Packard's Select Committee bill [108] to regulate foreign
                                insurance, was ordered to lie on the table, and be printed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MOREHEAD, HALL & CO.
                            Mr. JONES of Tippecanoe's bill [112] providing for examination and
                                adjustment of the claims of Morehead, Hall & Co. for work done
                                on the Wabash and Erie Canal, coming up-

                            Mr. CASON moved an indefinite postponement.

                            Mr. JONES of Tippecanoe. This was not a bill asking the legislature
                                to appropriate money. It proposed to refer this claim to a board, to
                                be investigated. He thought the bill should go to a committee. The
                                board was the Attorney General, Secretary, Auditor and Treasurer of
                                State. They were to ascertain whether there was anything due, and
                                report.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew. This claim was presented here four years
                                ago, and occupied a considerable portion of the time of the session.
                                There were men here lobbying, and attorneys urging the propriety of
                                allowing the claim: and he remembered conversing with men of
                                information in the matter who affirmed, that there were more than
                                fifty other claims of the same class ; and Governor Wright had told
                                him that Morehead himself was disgusted with the application and
                                ready to give it up, because it cost him so much. 

                            Mr. FISHER had examined the testimony in this case-knew the
                                witnesses-honorable men. But the examination had stopped short of
                                getting at the gist of the case. It did not show the matter as the
                                same witnesses would have shown it if the examination had proceeded
                                farther. But what would induce him to vote for the postponement was,
                                taht the Attorney General (one of the Board) had prejudged the
                                case-had given his opinion that the State is debtor to Morehead
                                & Co.; something more than $9000 and and 15 years interest. He
                                had succeeeded the general superintendent in charge of that work,
                                and knew what he stated.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. Was not this case identical in principle with the Beard
                                case ?

                            Mr. FISHER. It was entirely different.

                            Mr. CASON. It was an old case requiring strict investigation. The
                                Attorney General, instead of looking to the interest of the State,
                                under this bill, could do no more than hear the case as a judge. He
                                concurred in the motion to postpone.

                            Mr. FISHER. Morehead, Hall & Co., were contractors. They failed
                                to give assurance to the superintendent (Lucas), of completing the
                                work in time, and Lucas took it from them and placed it in the hands
                                of an agent. If they were deprived of their contract illegally the
                                amount of damages the company sustained would be the measure of
                                relief. He supposed it could be shown in evidence, that this company
                                had done the most profitable portion of the work before it was taken
                                from them; and also that it cost, the State more to finish the work,
                                than it would have cost under their contract.

                            Mr. PARRETT supposed the bill had better be postponed. It was
                                doubtful whether the claim was good or not-doubtful whether the
                                State was liable. He thought the interests of the State would be
                                better protected in the courts. If Lucas's act was tantamount to
                                declaring the contract void, then the State is liable. But we might
                                spend all the time of the session on private claims like this.
                                Besides, the public officers had all they could well do, and it were
                                unwise to add to their responsibilities. He should not wonder to see
                                hundreds of claims for damages of this sort coming up from the north
                                part of the State.

                            The bill was indefinitely postponed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ONE SESSION A DAY.
                            On motion of Mr. CAMERON, his resolution to change the sessions to
                                one session a day, was taken up.

                            Mr. SHERMAN and Mr. WOODHULL favored the change.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew opposed.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, proposed to amend so that the rule shall not
                                be in force beyond the 20th of February.

                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to limit the rule to the 10th of February.

                            Mr. ANDERSON proposed to fix the adjournment each day, at 12
                                o'clock.

                            Mr. EDSON proposed that the House meet at 8 o'clock in the
                                morning.

                            Mr. FRASIER demanded the previous question, and under its force, the
                                amendments were rejected, and the resolution of Mr. Cameron was
                                adopted-yeas 57, nays 20. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. Lee and Mr. Black has leave of absence on account of
                                sickness.

                            Mr. ROBERTS (by unanimous consent) presented the petition of Jacob
                                Miller and others, for a tax of five dollars on dogs; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Agriculture.

                            The SPEAKER announced the special order viz: the consideration of Mr.
                                Branham's bill [1] the Embezzlement bill, entitled, an act defining
                                certain felonies and misdemeanors, and prescribing punishment therefor, and
                                providing certain evidence on the part of the State -the question
                                being, Shall the bill pass the 3d reading?

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted that the bill should be amended in the last
                                section, so as not to take effect and be in force till its
                                publication ; which was agreed to.

                            Mr. FRASIER inquired how, as required in the 11th section,the Auditor
                                could know whether or not there was money in the Treasury begging to
                                any particular fund, &c.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. That was for preventing school funds from being
                                illegally drawn.

                            Mr. VEATCH. If the Auditor's books were rightly kept, he would always
                                know what money was in the Treasury belonging to each fund.

                            The bill was passed the final reading in the House by yeas 74, nays
                                2-one present and refusing to vote.

                            Its leading provisions are : 1. Making it a felony for any officer or
                                other person entrusted with money, fund, security, &c., of the
                                State, to convert them to his own use, &c. He shall be deemed
                                guilty of felony, punishable with confinement in the penitentiary
                                not less than one nor more than twenty-one years, and in a fine not
                                exceeding the value of the money, &c., so used; and refusal to
                                pay over to person entitled to receive, to be held as evidence of
                                such felony. 2. False statement of the amount of money on hand, to
                                be a felony,-confinement not less than one nor more than fourteen
                                years. 3. If the Treasurer of State shall pay out or receive any
                                public money, except as prescribed by law-not less than fifty
                                dollars, nor more than five hundred, and imprisoned in the county
                                prison not less than one year. 4. If he accept any warrant or
                                voucher from any creditor of the State without having paid the same
                                to such creditor, in such funds as he may have received for
                                disbursement-he shall be fined in a sum equal to the amount
                                withheld, and confined in the county jail-not less than one nor more
                                than twelve months. 5. If the Secretary, Auditor, or Treasurer of
                                State shall receive any fee or perquisite, and fail to report it to
                                the Treasury-he shall be fined in double the amount so received and
                                imprisoned in the county jail-same term. 6. The Treasurer of State
                                refusing to pay funds to the person entitled to them, or failing to
                                deliver up money papers at the expiration of his term-to be
                                imprisoned in the Penitentiary not less than one nor more than
                                twenty-one years, and fined in any sum equal to the amount withheld.
                                The remaining sections prescribe punishment where a State officer
                                prevents examination of his office under authority: To punish the
                                Auditor if he draw a warrant on the Treasury when there is no money
                                for the purpose: and to punish the Treasurer if he pays any claim
                                out of another fund than that appointed for the especial
                                purpose.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG quastioned whether the title expressed the subject
                                matter of the bill, as required by the Constitution.

                            But it was not disturbed. 


                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                Mr, Packard's bill, [114] To amend the first section of the act
                                    of May 20, 1852, for the incorporation of Manufacturing
                                    Companies, so as to allow of the supply of motive power and
                                    cities with water, was considered on the second reading, and
                                    referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.

                                Mr. Burgess' bill [115] To amend the exemption acts of 1852 and
                                    1859 : Mr. Brucker's (descent) bill, [126;] Mr. Bundy's bill
                                    [129] To amend section 178 of the decedents' estates act of June
                                    17, 1852, Mr. Stotsenberg's bill [130] requiring certain
                                    pleading to be sworn to ; Mr. Hopkins' bill [131] To vacate
                                    canal in Evansville; Mr. Speaker Allen's bill [134] in relation
                                    to witnesses-practice act, section 283; Mr. Packard's bill [134]
                                    To amend section 476; Mr. Jenkinson's bill [139] for married
                                    women, and Mr. Bundy's bill [143] To repeal section 9 of the
                                    fees and salaries act were severally referred to the
                                        Judiciary Committee.

                                Mr. Cason's bill [116] To require patent medicines to be labelled
                                    with their ingredients; Mr. Edson's bill [135] To amend section
                                    6 of the assessment act so as to exempt personal property of
                                    widows to the value of $300 from taxation; Mr. Sherman's bill
                                    [140]-President of Sinking Fund to make deed (for old State
                                    Bank)-were severally referred to the Committee on
                                        Rights and Privileges.

                                Mr. Fisher's bill [117]money for the State Agricultural
                                    Board$4,000was referred to the Committee on
                                        Agriculture.

                                Mr. Stotsenberg's bill [118] To authorize Judges to make orders
                                    in vacation; and Mr. Edson's bill [124] to correct defects of
                                    deputy clerks, were referred to the Committee on the
                                        Organization of Courts.

                                Mr. Knowlton's bill [91] Extending the Eel River Seminary act of
                                    June 27, 1847, was referred to the Committee on
                                        Corporations.

                                Mr. Heffren's bill [121] To authorize county work houses, was
                                    referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                        Business.

                                Mr. Jones of Vermillion's bill, [122] To make Vermillion, Parke
                                    and Putnam a common Pleas district, was referred to a Select
                                    Committee of Three.

                                Mr. Jenkinson's bill, [123] For vacation of streets and town
                                    lots, and Mr. Gifford's bill, [127] To give Common Pleas clerks
                                    custody of probate papers, were referred to the
                                        Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts.

                                Mr. Kendrick's bill, [125]-Punishment of election frauds-(with a
                                    substitute by Mr. Parrett) was referred to the
                                        Committee on Elections.

                                Mr. Bryant's bill, [132] To amend the 23d section of the
                                    assessment act, was referred to the Committee on Ways
                                        and Means.

                                The Committee bill [136] To protect fish;  and Mr. Edson's bill, [142] To
                                    amend section 51 of the act of June 14, 1852, (so as to limit
                                    the sanction of the usury law to $1,000) were ordered to be
                                    engrossed.

                                The Committee's bill, [137] To amend sections 94 and 95 of the
                                    assessment act; Mr. McLean's bill, [138] To restore the city
                                    corporation law of March 9, 1857; and Mr. Knowlton's bill, [144]
                                    To amend section 94 o the assessment act, were severally
                                    referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                        Business.

                                Mr. Anderson's bill, [141] To amend the 20th section of the
                                    Supervisors' act, coming up-

                                Mr. Combs proposed to amend by striking out all that relates to
                                    taxing land by the acre &c.

                                The bill and proposed amendment were referred to the
                                        Committee on Roads.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, February 6, 1861.
                        

                        Messrs.BEESON and CARNAHAN presented petitions pray ing for legislation
                            against sheep-killing dogs, stating the annual loss thereby is more than
                            all the dogs in the world are worth; which were read and referred to the
                                Committee on Agriculture.

                        Mr. NEWCOMB presented a memorial from T. A. Goodwin, asking for the State
                            Printing and Binding at 25 per cent, discount on the prices now allowed
                            by law; which was referred to the Committee on
                                Printing.

                        Mr. ANTHONY presented a petition from citizens of Putnam county, not
                            objecting to the repeal of the new county acts of '57 and '59, but
                            praying for a proviso saving all pending proceedings. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE FINANCE
                                    COMMITTEE.
                            By Mr. STEELE. Returning a petition from citizens of Warren county,
                                recommending its reference to the Committee on
                                    Claims.

                            By Mr. CONLEY. Returning a petition praying the suspension of the
                                collection of debts by sale of property for one year, recommending
                                that it lay on the table, inasmuch as a bill is before the Senate
                                embracing the same object.

                            By Mr. MELLETT. Returning Mr. Wolfe's bill [S. 37-see p. 46,]
                                recommending passage. Also the bill [H. R. 104-see pages 111 and
                                117,] reporting it back for the action of the Senate, with the
                                opinion that it is impracticable to incorporate the proposed
                                amendments.

                            By Mr. BLAIR. Returning Mr. Line's bill [S. 38-see p. 69,] with an
                                amendment providing but one instead of two dockets, recommending
                                passage.

                            Mr. HALL, from the Committee on Roads, returned
                                Mr. Miller's bill [S. 36-see p. 69,] recommending passage.

                            These reports were severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPEAL OF THE NEW COUNTY ACTS OF 1857 AND
                                1859.
                            Mr. CONLEY, from the Select Committee thereon, returned Mr. Turner's
                                bill [S. 43-see p. 69,] recommending passage.

                            Mr. CONNER moved to concur with an amendment providing that nothing
                                in this act shall be construed as effecting any proceedings had and
                                pending under the act of '57.

                            Mr. ANTHONY, as a minority of this Committee, submitted a written
                                report recommending the passage of the bill with a proviso that this
                                act shall not be construed to effect in an wise any proceedings
                                under the acts of '57 and '59.

                            Mr. CONNER. Citizens under the act Of '57 have affected some changes
                                that seem to be demanded by the people. I have no objection to the
                                repeal of both acts, but they should not be repealed without saving
                                pending proceedings.

                            Mr. CONLEY. This thing was lobbied through the Legislature by
                                interested parties and it is now attempted again to prevent the
                                passage of this act for its repeal. It is disgraceful to the
                                Legislature and to the people of Indiana that measures can be
                                lobbied through in this manner by interested parties. Mr. C.
                                referred to the Journals of the last session and said: No man can
                                tell how this thing was managed. It passed through the Legislature
                                by a system of jugglery, and is now inaugurating a system of
                                protracted law suits and divesting persons of their vested rights.
                                Gentlemen talk about a saving clause; now sir, that is the very
                                thing we wish to cut off, indeed it is necessary we should do so to
                                guard older counties. I hope the report of the majority will be
                                concurred in, and I think Senators, when they understand this thing
                                will see the necessity of the passage of the bill.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. The motion of the Senator from Wabash and the
                                minority report, it occurs to me admit the wrongfulness of the
                                present legislation upon this subject. The proposition as reported
                                is to repeal all laws on this subject, and the motion is to concur
                                in that report saving the proceedings now pending under these laws.
                                It occurs to me to be a strange position to admit the wrongfulness
                                of the present legislation, and at the same time undertake to save
                                the rights pretended to be acquired under that wrongful legislation.
                                I presume the effect of the present legislation on this subject was
                                not seen by the Legislature when the law was enacted, or it would
                                not have been so enacted.

                            Mr. WHITE. With the petition that I received from hundreds of
                                citizens of Montgomery county, in regard to this matter, as well is
                                the knowledge I have had of the opposition to this measure by the
                                people of Montgomery md surrounding counties, ever since this thing
                                was got through, I should be false to my constituents and to myself
                                were I to remain silent. Now gentlemen speak here of the  hasty manner in which this thing was
                                got 1 through two years ago. So far as that is concerned I know
                                nothing about it, only what the journals show; and indeed it does
                                seem to me that Senators and Representatives were caught napping,
                                from the simple fact that the Senator and Representative from my
                                county, either one of them, knew anything about it, but they got
                                awakened up as quick as the people found out what had been done.
                                There is a proposition to cut off the southern part of Montgomery
                                county-taking out two townships-and if there is a question in
                                Montgomery county that the people are a unit upon, it is opposition
                                to this formation of the new county. And it is not confined to the
                                people residing outside of these townships to be affected, but the
                                very bitterest opposition, men that have gone to the greatest
                                length, who have expended more money and time to defeat this object,
                                are the men who live in the territory to be affected. They knew
                                where they were settling when they made their settlements; they knew
                                how far they were from the county seat; they did this with their
                                eyes open, and there are plenty of men even in this territory to be
                                affected, who are more bitterly opposed to this clipping than
                                persons residing out of the territory. I know it is argued with
                                plausibility that where rights have been vested under the laws of
                                '57 and '59, it is outrageous to thus summarily cut them off; but I
                                tell you while they have been vested with a little, the people at
                                large have been divested of more rights. I submit whether it is
                                right that the people of the whole county should be divested of
                                their rights simply to accommodate a few land sharks who wish to
                                build a county seat on their land. Some ten years ago, for the
                                benefit of the whole county by a vote, they voted to issue their
                                bonds for $100,000 railroad stock, and now these gentlemen find it
                                convenient, when this debt is to be paid, to secede. It saves their
                                pockets immensely, while it don't change their relations to the
                                railroad one particle. 

                            Mr. STEELE. I hope this majority report will be concurred in. Those
                                of us who served here last session from the district I live in, were
                                either hoodwinked or caught napping at the time we voted for that
                                law. I would not have done it had I known what the law contained. In
                                the first part of last session I was urged by the Representative
                                from Jasper county to vote for the law, to enable them to make a new
                                county out of some large counties up there; and I told him I would
                                vote for any local measure that would not affect my counties.
                                According to the experience I have had in legislation, this has been
                                the universal practice. But now we find the districts affected
                                almost unanimously coming up here and asking the repeal of this law,
                                which is making more difficulty than any law ever before upon the
                                statute books. 

                            Mr. ANTHONY. When I come here as the Senator from Floyd county, I not
                                only represent that county, but the people of the State at large;
                                and it is my especial duty, when a class ask for rights to be
                                granted them, who have no representative upon this floor to see that
                                their rights are not trampled upon by those interested. The select
                                committee who reported this bill is made up of their friends; and
                                their report amounts to nothing at all, and I say so without meaning
                                any disrespect to gentlemen on that committee. If the bill had gone
                                to a regular committee of disinterested men, their recommendation
                                would have had considerable weight with me. I understand there is a
                                confusion in the journals on this bill of '59. It is true the record
                                is against me, but that is a matter of no importance with regard to
                                this question. If we pass a law in a solemn manner, implicit
                                obedience is expected and required. If any rights are granted by
                                law, the people suppose they will not be taken away from them in a
                                moment. There is nothing wrongful, as a Senator has said, in his
                                law, that I can see; all that can be said is, that it is
                                injudicious. In repealing these acts you must observe those rights
                                acquired under the laws you have solemnly enacted. A greater number
                                have petitioned for the preservation of their rights under these
                                laws, than have petitioned for their repeal. [Mr. A. referred at
                                some length to the efforts made to form Bourbon county out of
                                portions of Parke, Montgomery and Putnam counties.]

                            Mr. MURRAY. I move to recommit the bill, with instructions to strike
                                out all that relates to the law of 1857. I was one of those chaps
                                who voted in the lower House for the law of 1859, under a
                                misapprehension of its effects. The saving clause proposed by
                                gentlemen embraces the whole question in controversy. If I have done
                                injustice, shall I put in a saving clause, that the injustice done
                                by my vote shall stand? No sir; if l am convinced of that fact, but
                                I do not know as it is so in this case, it is my duty to vote
                                against any saving clause. The law of 1857 has not harmed them or
                                their constituents, and why do they propose to repeal it ? The law
                                of 1859 gives the privilege to form new counties out of contiguous
                                counties ; the law of 1857 gives no such right. All the complaint is
                                under the law of 1859 and not under the law of 1857. 

                            Mr. TURNER. I am opposed to recommittal. I think the law of 1857 is
                                really productive of greater evil than the law of 1859, and they
                                should both be unconditionally repealed. There may be rights under
                                those laws that deserve some attention, perhaps there may be some
                                cases really meritorious, but the law has worked badly so far as my
                                knowledge extends. [Mr. T. recited a case in his county where great
                                injustice would be done.] The law of 1859 never was got through by
                                any legitimate legislation; it was by a system of legerdemain and
                                management that never should be tolerated in any legislative body.
                                     [Mr. T. traced the bill
                                through the journals and showed where the House amendments were
                                concurred in by the Senate, but do-not appear in the law.] The bill
                                was manoeuvred through in that way. Whether the law is really
                                binding is a question for lawyers.

                            Mr. STEELE replied to Mr. Anthony's remarks concerning the proposed
                                county of Bourbon. As Senators have said, this bill of 1859 was
                                passed by some hocus-pocus, and is a work that nobody knows anything
                                about.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN. I know nothing about how that bill was passed, but
                                there is a measure gotten up under it to set off a new county from
                                ours, and a suit is now pending thereon. It will act peculiarly hard
                                upon our people. It cuts off a strip that comes up within about six
                                or seven miles of our county seat. My people are almost a unit-more
                                than nine-tenths are anxious for a repeal of that law, leaving no
                                saving clause whatever. I have no doubt the law was passed hastily,
                                but we think when an injury is done to any portion of the people by
                                the Legislature, at the next session the injurious act should be
                                repealed. I am in favor of repealing the law, not only of 1859, but
                                of 1857.

                            Mr. HULL moved to recommit, with these additional instructions: To
                                repeal the law of 1859, including the second section of the law of
                                1857. While I have no disposition to oppose any measure that would
                                make new counties upon the right principles, yet I object to the
                                cutting up of our counties for individual purposes.

                            Mr. CRAVENS, [Mr. Newcomb in the Chair.] The discussion of this
                                question has but confirmed me in the opinion that we should offer
                                the old Constitution, with slight amendments, as an amendment to the
                                new Constitution, and submit it to a vote of the people. Although I
                                have sworn to abide by the present Constitution, I despise it. [Mr.
                                Slack, (sotto voce,) "Treason."] There is no
                                better evidence for getting clear of it than is now presented to the
                                Senate. I am opposed to the repeal of this law. Before I can be
                                induced to vote for its repeal, I shall have to be satisfied that
                                the law will fail to produce good, and its remaining upon the
                                statute book can only be productive of evil. One session we pass
                                laws, and; the next session come up and repeal them. The principle
                                of popular sovereignty prevails in this law. [Mr. C. read a portion
                                of it.] The question is, whether they shall have that privilege. I
                                hold the people of this State ought to have that privilege. Shall
                                the people be prohibited by a law, like the Medes and Persians,
                                unchangeable and unalterable, from doing so ? The proposition of the
                                Senator from Elkhart, [Mr. Murray,] is what I want, If it is the
                                general opinion that the law should only ask that this second
                                section of the law of 1857 shall be saved from repeal. I think the
                                principle of popular sovereignty should prevail.

                            Mr. MILLER. I cannot favor the motion of the Senator from Elkhart,
                                knows well I cannot. I oppose it because a portion of his
                                constituency desire to take a portion of our county from us, and we
                                will resist that as a matter of course. The second section of the
                                act of 1857 is the very law under which this process may be
                                accomplished. This kind of legislation will lead to abuses without
                                limit, but the act of 1859 is infinitely worse. That act found its
                                way upon the statute book by sheer fraud and imposition. I undertake
                                to say it, and I speak what I do know from the very best
                                authority-from men who were in the scheme and connected with it from
                                beginning to end-that the thing was intended to be a fraud, and up
                                for the very express purpose. Now it is pretended here that parties
                                have vested rights, under the act of 1859. If that be true the
                                courts will recognize those vested rights, and no act of this
                                Legislature can deprive any citizen of his vested right under this
                                or any other act. It seems to me, sir, that the best thing we can do
                                is to repeal both these acts, and get up a new bill. I do not
                                propose to save any pending cases ; these are the very cases we are
                                designing to cut off. There is a project on foot to divide St.
                                Joseph and Laporte counties, and make a little one-horse town-New
                                Carlisle-a county seat. These projects generally have their origin
                                in the design of some men who wish to make a county seat upon some
                                property in which they are interested.

                            Mr. COBB. I am in favor of the amendment proposed by the Senator from
                                Elkhart. The second section of the law of 1857 is right.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage of the bill [H. R.
                                1]-see pages 9 and 140 of these Reports.]

                            Mr. WOLFE. Of all the amendments proposed to the bill, the Senator
                                from Elkhart's is the one I object to most. * * * Matters of
                                administrative power proper belong to the legislature, and the
                                Constitution has not given to the Legislature any power to transfer
                                its power to the county boards, and unless they have legislative
                                powers they cannot change the statute. I think the act is clearly
                                against the letter of the Constitution, and if that is not the case,
                                it is certainly contrary to the spirit which the Constitution
                                contemplated all matters of this kind should be decided. But suppose
                                it to be admitted that county boards shall have power to change the
                                statute so that a county line shall be to-day what it was not
                                yesterday, the Constitution provides that no law shall take effect
                                until it is published; here would be a change of law without
                                publication or notice whatever. But be repealed, I shall oppose no
                                objection. But leaving out the question of constitutional objection,
                                county boundaries ought to be of a settled character; they should
                                remain permanent for a great variety of reasons. I am in favor of a
                                repeal of these laws. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 14, 1861
                        No. 12
                    

                    
                        

                        
                            
                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, Mr. Hull's and Mr. Murray's instructions
                                were severally laid on the table upon a division of the
                                House-affirmative 25.

                            Mr. MURRAY made an ineffectual motion to lay the bill on the
                                table.

                            Mr. CONNER. I do not believe the act of 1859 contains so just
                                provisions as the act of 1857. The act of 1857 has been on the
                                statute book up to this time, and we have heard no complaittt of it
                                till this session; but under the act of 1859 complaints have come up
                                in great numbers. These acts seem to be a fruitful source of
                                litigation, and I am willing to join gentlemen in their repeal
                                saving pending actions.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. My object is to put forever at rest any question that
                                might arise hereafter in relation to the formation of counties by
                                instructing the committee to amend so that nothing in said acts
                                shall be so construed as to effect any county or counties that may
                                have been organized under said acts of 1857 and 1859.

                            Mr. CONNER. I accept the amendment.

                            Mr. COBB. We ought to pass laws that will prevent litigation. I
                                believe if the law of 1857 is repealed, there would be a vast amount
                                of litigation, and hence I say we ought to retain that statute.

                            Mr. HULL. As this amendment does my county all the injustice
                                possible, I. desire to further amend the instructions by adding a
                                Baying clause that any section or part of township may remain within
                                the present limits upon petitioning the commissioners by a majority
                                of voters residing therein.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, February 6, 1861.
                        

                        The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Clerk of the
                            stationery room in reply to a resolution of the House, bating that he
                            had furnished each member of &e House with $3 worth of postage
                            stamps, according to order.

                        Mr. ORR asked leave to submit a resolution, terminating debate on tbe
                            reports of the Committee of Thirteen this day, at 12
                            o'clock.

                        It was objected to.

                        Mr. CAMERON (by unanimous consent)submitted the following, which was
                            adopted by consent: 

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a Committee of Eleven-seven
                                        on the part of the House, and four on the part of the
                                        Senate-be raised to prepare and report a bill apportioning
                                        tho State into proper Senatorial and representative
                                        Districts; and that the President of the Senate and Speaker
                                        of tho House of Representatives be requested to consult
                                        together before appointing said Committee, so that each
                                        Cangressional District shall be represented on said
                                        Committee. 
                                
                                
                            
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. WOODS presented the petition of Chauncey Wilson and others,
                                residents in the near vicinity of Calumet river in Lake county, for
                                abatement of the unmitigated nuisance of the Calumet Feeder Dam ;
                                and on his motion it was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. WOODHULL presented the petition of sundry citizens of Steuben
                                ceunty, asking for the abolishment of the county treasurer's office
                                ; which was referred without reading to the Committee on County and
                                Township Business.

                            Mr. CAMERON presented the petition of William C. Talcott and others,
                                citizens of Porter county, for the repeal of the acts for tho
                                formation of new counties; which was referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.

                            Mr. CRAIN presented the petition for the new Common Pleas District,
                                proposed to be composed of the counties of Parke, Vermillion and
                                Putnam ; and asked that it be referred to the Select Committee of
                                Three on that subject. It was so referred.

                            Mr. HENRICKS presented the petition of Thos. S. Stamfield and others,
                                citizens of St. Joseph county, praying that the Surrogate system be
                                adopted in place of the present mode of doing Probate business|;
                                which was referred to the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts.

                            Mr. KENDRICK presented the memorial of Thos. A. Goodwin, on the
                                matter of economizing in the public printing, and proposing to do
                                the printing and binding for the State 25 per cent, below the prices
                                now allowed by law.

                            Mr. HEFFREN inquired after his bill to let out the public printing to
                                the lowest bidder.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. It had been passed the second reading, and referred to
                                the Committee on Ways and Means.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB moved that the petition be referred to the select
                                    Committee on Printing. 

                            

                            Mr. WOODHULL. If the printing could be done 25 per cent, below the
                                prices now allowed by law, the provision ought to be made. He was
                                opposed to the reference.

                            Mr. ROBBINS. Gentlemen had professed great anxiety for economy. He
                                hoped now they would show their faith by works. He would have the
                                House instruct the Committee on Ways and Means to
                                report back the bill of the gentleman from Washington.

                            The petition was referred to the Printing
                                    Committee. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXECUTION LAWS.
                            Mr. WOODHULL, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned the resolution inquiring into the expediency of repealing
                                all laws permitting the avoidance of the valuation act, requiring
                                property by execution to sell for two-thirds its value, and reported
                                legislation inexpedient, and that the resolution lie on the
                                table.

                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JUSTICES' JURISDICTION.
                            Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe. from the Committee on Organization
                                    of Courts of Justice, returned Mr, Moss's bill [86] to
                                amend sections 8 and 10 of the justices' act of June 9, 1852, so as
                                to enlarge their jurisdiction in actions on tort and contract to
                                $300, reporting the proposed amendment of the law neither expedient
                                nor necessary and recommending the indefinite postponement of the
                                bill and Mr. Combs's amendment.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB moved to lay the report on the table, and that the bill
                                be recommitted. The proposed extention of the justices' jurisdiction
                                was demanded by the people. It would save a great deal in costs. But
                                somehow the lawyers were opposed to it.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Two-thirds of the cases now tried before the justices
                                had to go to the courts above. That was his observation. He hoped
                                the report would be concurred in. Lawyers were opposed to increasing
                                the magistrates' jurisdiction, because they know something about law
                                and the management of business generally. Parties before justices
                                generally come out losers by three times as much as if they go
                                before the proper courts first.

                            Mr. KENDRICK was unwilling that the statement should go out from this
                                House, that the justices of the peace haven't got sense enough to
                                know what they are about.

                            Mr. HEFFREN would take it back as far as Marion county is
                                concerned.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB. It was because the office was worth nothing that the
                                justices were so generally incompetent.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. It was not because he had any pique against the
                                justices that he was in favor of this report, but for many good
                                reasons: It would-be better for the farmer for the law to remain
                                unchanged. In the higher courts a judgment is a lien on the realty;
                                whilst in the justices' court it is not. The party has to get a
                                transcript of the judgment and file it in the Circuit or Common
                                Pleas Court in order to get a lien on the realty. Then this bill
                                would make the constable's office a far more important position. It
                                was true also, as Mr. Heffren had stated, that two-thirds of the
                                cases now adjudicated by justices go to the higher courts before
                                they are closed. He represented a rural district, and there were
                                none in his region desirous of this increase of jurisdiction.

                            Mr. NEBEKER represented a rural district, and his constituents were
                                in favor of increasing this jurisdiction. He differed with the
                                gentleman as to the effect of it. An individual living in a remote
                                part of the county, and being sued, would much rather pay the
                                mileage of the constable living near, than mileage from the county
                                seat. The present law was antiquated. It was made when money was
                                worth more than it is now-when farmers sold their corn for 10 cents,
                                and their pork to the merchant for $1 25. Money was to be estimated
                                in its relation to other things; and if it was worth twice aa much
                                then as now this jurisdiction ought to be extended to at least
                                $200.

                            Mr. NEWMAN. The reason why the lawyers as a class opposed this
                                increase of the jurisdiction of the magistrates was, that they would
                                not get quite so many cases before the higher courts.

                            Mr. FRASIER. Experience had taught him that most of the justices
                                lacked qualification the necessary ability-to discharge well the
                                duties pertaining to their office, especially where the position is
                                not worth anything. But this was not the ground of his objection to
                                the proposed amendment to the law. It was because, as the gentleman
                                from Washington had said, it would increase litigation, that he
                                would go against the bill. Increase this jurisdiction, and let a man
                                sue before a justice on a note of $300. The defendant simply goes
                                and employs a pettifogger-a constitutional lawyer-and he manages the
                                card so as to get the justice to render judgment against him for
                                five dollars or so more than is just and right. He then takes an
                                appeal to the court, introduces his testimony, reduces the amount of
                                the judgment to the proper amount, and throws the costs on the other
                                side. This bill would increase the amount of litigation fully
                                one-fourth or third, not only in the justices' courts, but in the
                                courts of record. 

                            Mr. ATKISSON took the ground that this bill would decrease
                                litigation. If their jurisdiction were increased to three and five
                                hundred dollars, most all the larger cases coming before the
                                justices would be notes of hand, and no defense would be set up
                                against them. And it would facilitate collections. Parties would not
                                have to wait four to six months to get to trial. They could file
                                their claims and take judgment immediately. And as for the interest
                                of the lawyers, he did not think it could materially injure them. He
                                was for extending the
                                jurisdiction to $300 and to $500, on account of judgment.

                            Mr. PROSSER. He knew nothing about practicing at the bar; but he
                                always practiced outside. As a constitutional lawyer, he differed
                                with those who would ignore this jurisdiction. An. important
                                principle of law was as likely to arise before a justice of the
                                peace & before a higher court; and it would encourage appeals.
                                Extend the jurisdiction to $500 or $1,000, and every suit would be
                                litigated before the justice and the Circuit Court. If gentlemen
                                desired to make business for the levers, they should extend this
                                jurisdiction.

                            Mr. EDSON did not often differ with his brethren; but it did seem to
                                him that it was for their interest now to go in for an extension of
                                this jurisdiction. He was satisfied of this from his little
                                experience. There was quite a feeling among the people in favor of
                                this extension, and there were not wanting men trying to pander it.
                                It was that which had placed a lawyer on the same footing of
                                respectability with a man wanting to keep a grocery-he must have a
                                good moral character. Still, he believed the lawyers were able to
                                take care of themselves even better than under the old
                                Constitution.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams. There were many acses brought before the
                                Circuit and Common Pleas which would not be brought if the
                                jurisdiction were extended, because of delays and postponements. One
                                of these courts sits three times a year, and the other only twice,
                                and postponements are easily obtained. Whereas, if a postponement is
                                obtained before a justice it is only for a short time, and judgment
                                can be had without such vexatious delays and expense. He admitted
                                that there might be cases that would work hardships; but we cannot
                                avoid all hardships. There were many instances where parties would
                                prefer a judgment ; before a justice on three or four hundred
                                dollars. As it regards the inferiority of the judgment of the
                                justices of the peace, there was not a township in the State that
                                could not select an honest man for that office. And if a man has a
                                tolerable idea of what is just and right, even if he is not
                                conversant with the law, his judgment will lead him to what the law
                                is.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. If what had been said were an argument for increasing
                                this jurisdiction, it were better to go on and abolish all the
                                higher courts. He supposed a case involving a bill of exchange for
                                $200. If it is prosecuted with any vim at all, do we not know that
                                parties would not be satisfied with the judgment of a justice of the
                                peace? If it were determined to pass this bill, its friends should
                                go farther, and provide that the judgment of a justice shall be a
                                lien on the realty; and that would put the title to real estate in
                                danger. We should be slow to make these radical changes. We were now
                                accommodated to the present jurisdiction, and his people were
                                satisfied with it.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew. The reasons assigned here, and the course
                                taken against extending the jurisdiction of the magistrates, were
                                something like that in the Senate four years ago against the
                                interest bill. There were a few bankers In the State, and it was
                                supposed they would be opposed to that bill, but they came down and
                                promised us, if we could get it through the House, they would
                                support it there. We passed it and sent it to them; but the last man
                                of them finally voted against it. An increase of jurisdiction would
                                command better talents for justices of the peace.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG replied to the objections to the enlargement of this
                                jurisdiction. Just as grave questions of law were likely to be
                                raised in actions involving less than $100 as in those involving a
                                greater amount. It was a question affecting the interests of the
                                people: if it gives them facilities for collections, let them have
                                it. As to the lien on real estate, the transcript could be taken and
                                filed at once. It would relieve the dockets of the Circuit and
                                Comman Pleas Courts.

                            Mr. ORR concurred in these views. He considered it would confer a
                                great benefit on the people.

                            Mr. PARRETT. It was an experiment. There were, perhaps, good reasons
                                both ways. It was plausible that a principle was the same, whether
                                it involve $50 or $200. in the State of Ohio, three or four years
                                ago, they gave justices jurisdiction to $300. Since that they had
                                reduced it. But in Michigan, the justices had jurisdiction to the
                                amount of $200, and it worked well; and they could send writs all
                                over the country. The same thing obtained in New York.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. They had better chances for continuances, &c.

                            Mr. PARRETT. That was so. The question was not whether it would
                                benefit lawyers as a class. If it was for the advantage of the
                                people at large, he was for it. It was not by practice before
                                justices that lawyers had their living. There they had their labor
                                without a living. He did not know but it was best. As to the
                                objection that the justice's judgment gave no lien on the realty,
                                the transcript could be taken at once, as stated by Mr. Stotsenberg.
                                Of course the plaintiff would be at perfect liberty still to take
                                his case where he would. The bill could injure nobody; and it might
                                not only facilitate collections, but call better qualified men to
                                fill the justice's office. He inclined to the opinion that it would
                                prove satisfactory in practice.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. The same rule of appeal applies before the justices,
                                but the rules of pleading were not restricted.

                            Mr. PARRETT. There was nothing lost by that. The pleadings there were
                                all in the head, and as plastic as dough. 

                            Mr. VEATCH. If he really believed the interests of the country
                                demanded it, he would  go for
                                it, for he was very sure there was nothing in it that could injure
                                lawyers as far as fees are concerned. He believed the title of the
                                bill ought to be read thus: to increase the jurisdiction of justices
                                and increase litigation. He differed with gentlemen, holding that
                                this jurisdiction was limited to a certain amount because the
                                justices have not sense to try causes. This was not the principle.
                                He urged that a principle of law involving $100 could be just as
                                easily decided as if it involved $5,000. You all know that justices
                                of the peace, generally, are really incapable of entering up a
                                judgment with that precision and exactness which would stand the
                                tests. If the cause involves only $50 or $100, it would not justify
                                the party in carrying it up. The judgment on the merits would remain
                                there. But suppose you increase the amount to $500, then every
                                defect in the proceedings before the justice would be carefully set
                                out and carried up, and so litigation would be multiplied without
                                end. Instead of circumscribing litigation and taking business out of
                                the hands of the lawyers, you would have just the thing that would
                                be giving them a great harvest. Now, the plain, practical question
                                is here: Would not this bill increase the number and frequency of
                                these cases before the justices ? If it would, then, instead of
                                increasing it, the law should reduce the amount, and take all
                                important causes to the higher courts, where they would be more
                                carefully guarded. One gentleman says it is for the benefit of the
                                debtor. It saves in fees of the higher courts, and in mileage. Then,
                                to be consistent, you ought to give exclusive jurisdiction to the
                                justices ; for if you do not, your remedy would not be complete. But
                                it was claimed by another gentleman that it benefits both the debtor
                                and the creditor-that it would operate beneficially both ways-a
                                great measure, truly-so admirably fitted to everybody. But where
                                will this measure operate in favor of the debtor class ? Unless you
                                give exclusive jurisdiction to the justices, up to the amount fixed,
                                you leave every plaintiff to go, if he will, to the circuit or the
                                common pleas court. You do not benefit the debtor class at all, for
                                you never knew a cause where the parties were friendly, that they
                                did not accommodate the matter. If the creditor wants to save his
                                neighbor costs, he will give him notice, and he will confess
                                judgment before a justice; but if not, he will go where it suits his
                                convenience best. But he was distinctly opposed to enlarging the
                                jurisdiction for confessing judgment. He had seen more injustice and
                                fraud practiced on that point than almost any other. For instance: a
                                man is getting into a tight place, and wants to accommodate his
                                friend; and he says to him, I am going to be sued; j come in here
                                before this justice of the peace, and I will confess judgment on
                                what I am owing you. And before the world knows it, there is a
                                judgment and execution levied on ;all his property. He could not
                                think the provision would work well, but ill, by giving occasion for
                                fraud and injustice that would be taken advantage of.

                            Mr. ATKISSON. Couldn't a man now go into court and do the same ?

                            Mr. VEATCH. That would make no difference. There is evil in it. There
                                was another objection ti the bill. All interference with old,
                                settled customs was injurious. Whenever a thing is found to work
                                well, it was a good rule to let it alone. He had often heard the
                                cry, Legislate for the farming class, and keen the fees from the
                                lawyers; and while they have been a great while working to that
                                point every change that has been made has only brought up new causes
                                of complaint. Look at the supreme court, piling up their reports
                                year after year, and month after month, to the great expense of
                                litigants. All this comes from those changes of the law professing
                                to destroy litigation and make every man his own lawyer. The
                                gentleman from Warren (made a lawyer by the constitution,) was right
                                in his practice, never to charge anything. That which costs him
                                nothing he should charge nothing for.

                            Mr. PACKARD. Instead of injuring the lawyers, it would benefit them.
                                It was a fact that most cases exceeding $50 went now to the higher
                                courts. Then what benefit was to come from raising that
                                jurisdiction? It would seem that experience would teach us against
                                this change. The office of justice of the peace went a begging. Men
                                having a limited knowledge of the law did not want to hear their
                                neighbors difficulties. The reason why the extended jurisdiction in
                                Michigan was said to work evil, was because it was disregarded. They
                                went to the higher courts with all their cases. This extension was
                                not asked in his region. It would open a wide door to fraud and
                                injustice.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, but withdrew for-

                            Mr. FRASIER, who explained, that by the term "constitutional" lawyer,
                                he had intended to indicate, not those who have come recently into
                                the profession, but those going about provoking petty litigations
                                and practice for whisky.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB. It seemed an extraordinary thing to Mr. Veatch that this
                                would operate well in two ways. It was true, however, that it would
                                operate to the advantage of the creditor, in the case of the
                                absconding debtor; and it would save costs to the debtor. But the
                                gentleman said confession of judgment gave scope for frauds by
                                preferment of creditors. That evil would not be increased by this
                                bill.

                            Mr. CAMERON now insisted on his demand for the previous question,
                                and, under its operation, the report was now concurred in-yeas 24,
                                nays 63-as follows : 

                            

                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS- Messrs. Bingham, Branham,
                                            Burgess, Cason, Crain, Edson, Erwin, Fraley, Frasier,
                                            Gresham, Heffren, Howard, Jones of Tippecanoe, Knowlton,
                                            McClurg, Packard, Prosser, Smith of Miami, Thomas,
                                            Veatch, Williams, Veatch, Woods, and Mr. Speaker-24.

                                        NAYS Messrs. Anderson, Atkisson, Boydston, Brett,
                                            Cameron, Campbell, Collins, Adams, Combs, Cooprider,
                                            Dashiel, Davis, Epperson, Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher,
                                            Fleming, Ford, Fordyce, Gifford, Gore, Hall, Harvey,
                                            Haworth, Hayes, Henricks, Kitchen, Lods, Lane, Lightner,
                                            McLean, Moorman, Moss, Mutz, Nebeker, Newman, Orr,
                                            Parret, Pitts, Polk, Prow, Ragan, Randall, Robbins,
                                            Roberts, Sherman, Sloan, Smith of Bartholomew,
                                            Stevenson, Stotsenberg, Trier, Thompson, Turner,
                                            Underwood, Warrum, Wells, Wilson, Woodruff-63. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            The question recurred on the motion to re-commit to the
                                    Committee on Organization of Counts of
                                    Justice.

                            Mr. DAVIS proposed further to amend by striking out "$300," and
                                inserting "$200;" and striking out " $500," and inserting
                                "$300."

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to inquire
                                into the expediency of increasing the justices' and constables'
                                bonds to $3,000 each.

                            Mr. JONES, of Tippecanoe. That was in the bill now.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to amend further, so as to give justices final
                                jurisdiction in bastardy cases.

                            Mr. ROBBINS proposed $400 jurisdiction on confession of judgment.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, moved to lay Mr. Davis's amendment on the
                                table.

                            Mr. CAMERON moved to lay all the amendments on the table.

                            The House refused to table, by yeas 35, nays 48.

                            Mr. NEBEKER proposed to double the present measure of the justices'
                                and constables' bonds.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB moved, ineffectually, to refer the bill to the
                                    Committee on County and Township Business,
                                with instructions to amend, so as to authorize justices of the peace
                                to fine and imprison for contempt.

                            The question again recurred on the motion to recommit to the
                                    Committee on Organization of Courts.

                            Mr. FISHER hoped it would not go back. We have spent time enough on
                                it-no doubt the minds of gentlemen were made up. Without
                                instructions, we could expect nothing but the same report again from
                                the same committee.

                            The House refused to recommit: and then-

                            On motion of Mr. GRESHAM, the bill and Mr. Combs's amendment were
                                referred to the Committee on Rights and Privileges, with the
                                following further propositions to amend :

                            By Mr. POLK, so as to authorize but one justice to each civil
                                township of 1,500 inhabitants.

                            By GRESHAM, to confer on the justices concurrent jurisdiction with
                                the Courts of record in all cases civil and criminal.

                            By Mr. RAGAN, to insert at the words "justices of the peace," these
                                words: "Mayors of towns and cities."

                            By Mr. GRESHAM, to make the decisions of justices, &c.,
                                final.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG made an ineffectual motion to call up the report of
                                the Committee of Thirteen. 

                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE COMMITTEE ON COUNTY AND
                                    TOWNSHIP BUSINESS.
                            Mr. FRASIER, [chairman] returned the petition of sundry citizens of
                                Steuben county for the abolishment of a county treasurer's office,
                                and for the election of township and city tax collectors:

                            Also, the resolution proposing that all moneys coming into the hands
                                of supervisors shall be paid to the lowest bidder for road work
                                :

                            Also, the resolution for the repeal of the county treasurer to visit
                                the precincts for tax gathering:

                            Also, the resolution for expanding the road tax in the district where
                                collected: with the expression of opinion that legislation on these
                                several subjects is inexpedient, and thai the papers lie on the
                                table.

                            The reports were severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS
                            Of the following titles were passed to the second reading:

                            Mr. FRASIER: [173] Supplemental to the acts of March 2, '55, and
                                December 26, '58 for the re-location of county seats.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS: [174] To authorize the organization of Insurance
                                Companies in the State of Indiana.

                            Mr. VEATCH: [175] To authorize the killing of dogs that are found
                                wandering away from their owners, providing for licensing dogs in
                                cities and towns, &c., and prescribing duties of township
                                assessors in certain cases.

                            Mr. ANDERSON: [176] To license dogs, and providing for the payment of
                                damages sustained on account of maiming and killing sheep by
                                dogs.

                            Mr. MOSS: [177] To regulate the remission of fines and forfeitures,
                                and to repeal all laws conflicting with this act.

                            Mr. KENDRICK: [178] To amend sections 2, 3, and 14 of the act of
                                March 1, 1859, amendatory of the General City Corporation law of
                                March 5, 1857.

                            Mr. WOODS: [179] Regarding estrays and articles adrift, and repealing
                                all laws in conflict with this act.

                            Mr. COOPRIDER: [180] To amend section 13 of the act of January 12.
                                1852, to provide againt the consequences of lost books, papers,
                                &c., to restore lost papers and provide for the perpetuation of
                                testimony.

                            Mr. ORR: [181] To amend the 17th section of the justices act of June
                                9. 1852, defining their power and duties in civil cases.

                            Mr. PARRETT: [182] To amend sections 1 and 3 of the act in relation
                                to public officers, &c., approved March 5, 1859.

                            Mr. FRASIER: [183] To create the 17th  Judicial District; to provide for the
                                election of a Judge; to fix the time of holding its terms; to
                                provide for the election of a Prosecutor for the 10th Circuit,
                                &c. [The district to be composed of the counties of Kosciusko,
                                Elkhart, Lagrange, Steuben, Noble and De Kalb.]

                            Mr. JONES of Tippecanoc: [184] Providing for the jurisdiction of the
                                Circuit and Common Pleas Courts, in case of forfeited recognizances,
                                &c.

                            Mr. HENRICKS: [185] To provide for numbering the several districts of
                                the Court of Common Pleas in the State of Indiana. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE STATE PRINTING.
                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted a joint resolution [30] rehearsing that the
                                State Printer was elected under a joint resolution, subject to
                                removal, and that there is a responsible proposer to do the public
                                printing 25 per cent, below the present legal rates, c., and
                                declaring the office vacant, and giving the printing for the State
                                to Thomas S: Goodwin, "at 25 per cent, discount on the prices now
                                allowed by law, until some other arrangements are made for the same;
                                provided he gives satisfactory bond and security for the prompt and
                                faithful execution, under the restrictions and requirements now
                                provided by the laws on public printing."

                            Mr. BUNDY moved to refer it to the Select Committee on
                                    Printing.

                            Mr. HEFEREN moved to lay that motion on the table.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded a call of the House; and-

                            Pending proceedings in the call-

                            Ths House adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            THURSDAY, February 7,1861.
                        

                        Mr. WILLIAMS introduced a bill [128] to apportion Senators and
                            representatives for the next six years, which was passed the first
                            reading, without objection; rules suspended-yeas 42, nays 0-read the
                            second time by title only and referred to the Committee on
                                Apportionment.

                        [Leave of absenee was obtained for Mr. Shoemaker till Tuesday.]

                        Mr. MELLETT offered a resolution which was adopted authorizing the
                            appointment of a joint committee on apportionment-identical with the one
                            introduced by Mr. Cameron and passed by the House yesterday.

                        Mr. STUDABAKER offered a resolution which was adopted, directing the
                                Committee on Education to inquire into the
                            expediency of so amending the school law as to fix a day annually when
                            the county auditor and treasurer shall sell all lands mortgaged to. the
                            school fund on which the interest shall not previously have been paid;
                            making semi-annual distribution; the county auditor and treasurer to
                            report under oath the amount of the school fund loaned in their
                            counties, and the amount of interest distributed.

                        Mr. MURRAY presented two petitions from citizens of Elkhart county,
                            praying for protection against sheep killing dogs; and Mr. HAMILTON one,
                            which were referred to the Committee on Agriculture. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. COBB, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, returned Mr. Tarkington's bill [S. 100] to
                                create the fourteenth judicial circuit, recommending passage.

                            Mr. STONE, from the Committee on Roads returned a
                                resolution, [see page 80 of the Reports,] and also a bill in
                                accordance there-with [S. 129] to amend section 15, chapter 48 of
                                the Revised Statutes-being an act concerning the opening, vacating
                                and change of high-ways, &c., approved June, 17, 1852; go that
                                when a change is granted by the county commissioners the petitioner
                                shall pay all expenses incurred, if the change is on his own land
                                and not of public utility, which was passed the first reading.

                            Mr. HULL, from the Committee on Roads returned the
                                resolution asking an amendment of sections 19, 22 and 23, of the act
                                regulating change, vacation, or location of highways, approved June
                                17, 1852; reporting no further legislation necessary.

                            These reports were severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were read and passed the first reading without
                                objection:

                            By Mr. MILLER: [130] To amend section 11 of an act touching the
                                laying out and vacating towns, &c.

                            By Mr. MELLETT: [131] To repeal an act to amend 138 section of an act
                                to provide for the settlement of decedent estates, &c., aproved
                                June 17, 1852, approved March 7, 1857, and to assist in the
                                settlement of the estates of decedents.

                            By Mr. MELLETT: [182] To repeal sections 117 and 118 of the above
                                recited act.

                            By Mr. BEESON: [133] To authorize the killing of dogs that are found
                                running away from their masters, to provide for licensing dogs in
                                cities and towns, and an allowance out of the county treasury to the
                                owner of sheep killed by dogs.

                            By Mr. MURRAY: [134] To license dogs and provide for the payment of
                                all damages sustained in the killing of sheep by dogs.

                            By Mr. LANDERS: [135] An act declaring a commission merchant,
                                attorney at law, or railroad conductor who commits a breach of
                                trust, a felon.

                            By Mr. NEWCOMB: [136] To amend sec. 6 of an act to provide for the
                                organization of courts, &c, approved June 17, 1852.

                            By Mr. MILLER: [137] To repeal an act to provide for the voluntary
                                assignments of personal and real property in trust for the benefit
                                of creditors, &c., approved March 5, 1859.

                            

                            By Mr. MARCH. [138] To amend section2 of an act to amend sections 207
                                and 208 of the practice act, approved June 18, 1852, so as to
                                authorize a change of venue in certain cases, approved March 5,
                                1859.

                            By Mr. SHOULDERS: [139] To amend sec. 5 of the liquor law, approved
                                March 5, 1859.

                            By Mr. LOMAX: [140] An act supplemental to an act to provide for the
                                colonization of negros and mulattoes.

                            By Mr. BLAIR: [141] To amend section 34 of the revised statutes of
                                1852, entitled an act to provide for the incorporation of railroad
                                companies, approved May 11, 1852.

                            By Mr. MILLER: [142] To authorize the trustees of Indiana University
                                to appropriate a certain amount ($1,000) to enlarge the library,
                                &c.

                            [The PRESIDENT announced the special order for this hour (10 o'clock)
                                to be the consideration of the minority report of the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations, identical
                                with the joint resolution S. 4-see page S. 44 and 45 of these
                                reports. On Mr. Anthony's motion it was made the order for this day
                                week at this hour.]

                             By Mr. CONNER: [143] To authorize the Bank of the State to lay off
                                and create five additional bank districts, and to create and
                                establish branches therein.

                            By Mr. NEWCOMB: [144] To amend sec. 6 of the assessment and valuation
                                act, approved June 21, 1852, so as to exempt certain property
                                therein named from taxation.

                            By Mr. NEWCOMB: [145] For the incorporation of companies for
                                agricultural, horticultural and nursery purposes. 

                            By Mr. ANTHONY: [146] In relation to petit juries. [Either party
                                shall have the right to challenge a juror, and assign for cause such
                                person has acted as jury in said county within one year
                                preceding.]

                            By Mr. MURRAY: [147] To repeal all laws for the organization of
                                militia of this State. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPEAL OF THE NEW COUNTY ACTS.

                            The Senate resumed the consideration of the unfinished business of
                                yesterday-being Mr. Turner's bill [S 43-page 69 of these Reports] to
                                repeal the acts of 1857 and 1859 and to authorize the formation of
                                New counties. The question being upon Mr. Hull's amendment to the
                                amendment-

                            Mr. TURNER. This bill submits the matter of change of boundaries or
                                the formation of new counties to the vote of the citizens of the
                                county or counties to be affected by such change. As the law now
                                stands, all that is required is a majority of the citizens of the
                                territory designed to be so set off, to act in the matter.

                            Mr. STEELE. This bill is now precisely as the act of 1859 left the
                                Senate two years ago. Both the House and the Senate voted for that
                                act, expecting the very provisions now proposed were in it; but by
                                some hocus-pocus of the clerks of the House, it does not appear in
                                the law.

                            Mr. CONLEY explained the effect of the bill.

                            Mr. MURRAY. The constituents whom I represent having a deep interest
                                in this question, I feel it to be a duty I owe to them to oppose the
                                measure before the Senate ; and not only on account of their
                                interests, but it is against what I conceive to be a correct and
                                fair mode of legislation. It does not give Senators a fair
                                opportunity to express their opinions upon the two distinct
                                propositions embraced in the bill. If gentlemen desire to repeal the
                                law of 1857, why do they not come in here with a bill for that
                                purpose, and for that purpose alone. I am willing to meet gentlemen
                                on these two propositions if they will divide them and give us fair
                                play. If gentlemen had come in with a proposition that the people
                                should have no right to transfer themselves under any circumstances
                                whatever, i would have amounted to the same thing, as thp object of
                                this bill is to cut off the people of a portion of one county from
                                removing, where their interests demand that they should go, to
                                another county. [Mr. M. referred to a casein which a portion of his
                                constituents were interested, and stated that the passage of thip
                                law would work seriously to their disadvantage.] I am willing to
                                take the amendment of the Senator from Wabash, provided il saves the
                                cases pending before county commissioners.

                            Mr. HULL. I am surprised at seeing gentlemen advocating principles
                                which do not allow majorities to rule. I move to lay the pending
                                amendments on the table.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I move to lay the bill and the pending amendments on
                                the table.

                            Mr. CONNER demanded a division of the question.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage of the resolution
                                similar to the one adopted by the Senate this morning, submitted by
                                Mr. Mellett.]

                            Mr. Hull's amendment was laid on the table, by yeas 23, nays 22.

                            Mr. Conner's amendment was laid on the table upon a division.

                            The motion to lay the bill on the table was rejected by yeas 16, nays
                                28.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. All this has arisen for the reason suggested yesterday
                                by myself, thai Senators attempt here to consult their own
                                individual interests, rather than legislate upon general principles
                                which ought to govern us all. This body passed a law by which
                                certain vested rights were acquired; and the Senate now, for the
                                simple reason that then their action was wrong, propose to take away
                                those vested rights and inflict injury upon those people. Not one
                                good reason has been given for the repeal of this bill. I move to
                                refer the bill and pending amendments to the Judiciary
                                    Committee, with instructions to inquire into the
                                constitutionality of said bill, and append  amendments which will prevent
                                litigation. I think there is a very considerable question whether
                                the bill proposed to be passed is a Constitutional act.

                            Mr. SLACK moved to recommit, with instructions, so as to provide that
                                all cases commenced or pending in any courts in this State whereby
                                new counties have been formed, or proceedings pending under the acts
                                of 1857 or 1859, shall not be affected by the passage of this bill.
                                Mr. S. said, I care nothing about this bill one way or the other. I
                                know I voted against the law of 1859 two years ago; I am in favor of
                                repealing them both ; I think they ought never to have been passed,
                                but I will not vote for their repeal unless there is a claus adopted
                                saving the rights we then conferred upon the people.

                            Mr. WHITE. So far as I am concerned, it makes but little difference
                                whether this law be repealed or not, if it be with a saving clause;
                                all the mischief you can do us will be done by a saving clause. I
                                hope the bill will be passed as it is.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. There is as great feeling in opposition to 'the new
                                county proposed in my district within its own bounds as any where
                                else. A large majority of the people I represent are opposed to it.
                                I voted for the law of 1859, but it was represented to us that it
                                was solely for the purpose of accommodating some of the people of
                                the northern part of the State-for their benefit and nothing else. I
                                was then of the opinion that the law would be of benefit to the
                                country, but since that time I have been convinced that the entire
                                law is wrong.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. It seems to me it is right and proper that this matter
                                should be referred to the Judiciary Committee. I
                                need not say that I have no personal interests in this matter. Hasty
                                and inconsiderate legislation is very much to be deprecated. Almost
                                every a gentleman who has been connected with this I transaction has
                                given ample testimony to that fact, and yet, in the face of that,
                                they attempt to drag us into the same difficulty. So far as I am
                                concerned, I will stand in this Senate and beat back this idea. I
                                have not made up my mind in reference to this bill, and until I know
                                the bearing it will have upon the State at large, I can not vote
                                upon it.

                            On motion by Mr. HULL, the motion to refer to the Judiciary
                                    Committee was laid on the table.

                            Mr. CRAVEN. I move to concur in the report, with an amendment
                                providing, that nothing in this act shall affect any proceeding had
                                or pending before any board of county commissioners or other court,
                                under the act of 1857. Let this amendment be adopted, and I will
                                vote cheerfully for the repeal of the two acts.

                            An ineffectual motion was made-yeas 17, nays 28-to lay this amendment
                                on the table.

                            Mr. TURNER. I desire to amend the amend the amendment by inserting,
                                in the proper place, that nothing in this proviso shall be so
                                construed as to apply to cases where petitions for a change have
                                been filed before any board of county commissioners, and no other
                                proceedings have been had.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I move to refer the bin and pending amendments to the
                                    Judiciary Committee to determine this
                                question, and to examine all its legal bearings. I desire to go work
                                understandingly. I think this whole system of legislation with
                                regard to new counties has been unfortunate.

                            Mr. CONLEY. If that bill can be reported back at an early day, and
                                these amendments go not as instructions, I would be willing for the
                                reference.

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            Messrs. Turner, Hull, Ray, Cobb and Miller submitted further
                                amendments by way of instructions which were referred to the
                                Committee without reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INDIANA AGRICULTURAL REPORTS.
                            Mr. MURRAY offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent
                                instructing the Committee on Agriculture to
                                report the cost of publication and transportation of the Indiana
                                Agricultural Reports; the amount of money annually appropriated for
                                that purpose, and whether the salaries of officers of the State
                                Board cannot without detriment be reduced one half.

                            [Leave of absence was obtained for Mr. Shoulders till Monday
                                week.]

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, February T, 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                            Mr. BUNDY presented the petition of Susan B. Hunt, and other ladies,
                                citizens of the State of Indiana, for a prohibitory liquor law. He
                                said this was a petition from ladies of his county; and as women
                                were more interested in this question of prohibiting liquor selling
                                than others in community, because they suffer more from the evils of
                                intemperance than any other class, they deserved a hearing. Under
                                court decisions, he supposed, it was not competent for the
                                Legislature to grant the prayer of the petitioners, He would,
                                however, move that the petition be referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.

                            It was so referred.

                            Mr. FRALEY presented the petition of H. McDice and others, citizens
                                of Fountain county, asking for a change in the law that will allow
                                any man, at his own expense, to change lie course of a public
                                highway on his own and in any manner, so he does not increase its
                                length more than 10 per cent.; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. JENKINSON presented the petition of  William T. Hunter and others, for
                                protection against sheep-killing dogs; which was refer-red to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture.

                            Mr. UNDERWOOD presented the petition of Israel Caldwell and others,
                                for changes in the liquor nor law, so that the general reputation of
                                a a drunnkard shall be sufficient notice against selling to him ; to
                                give justices of the peace power subpoena witnesses, make arrests,
                                appoint a prosecutor, and allow him a fee if the State gains. It was
                                referred to the Committee on Temperance.

                            Mr. DAVIS presented the petition of John McFaclden, Sr., which was
                                referred to the Committee on Claims, without
                                reading.

                            Mr. GORE presented the petition of Ephraim Hunnicutt, and others,
                                residents of Hamilton county, asking for specific salaries for
                                county auditors, treasurers, sheriffs, and clerks of the courts,
                                proportioned to the number of inhabitants in the county; which was
                                referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.
                            Mr. VEATCH returned Mr. Williams' bill [85] amend the title of the
                                Bridge act, and repeal the Bridge act of March 3, 1859, with an
                                amendment by substitute, entitled, A bill [186] to authorize the
                                Board of Commissioners to purchase toll bridges, or any private
                                interest therein. He said the act referred to contained a provision
                                authorizing the Commissioners to purchase bridges; but as that was
                                not indicated in the title, some doubt had arisen as to its
                                constitutionality. The Committee thought it better to report an
                                original bill for the purpose, than to amend the title of an
                                existing law.

                            The bill was passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. JENKINSON returned Mr. Heffren's bill [73]-hard money treasuryand
                                reported a motion that it lie on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned Mr. Packard's conventional interest bill, [14] and
                                reported a motion to lay on the table-the Committee having
                                heretofore reported a bill on the subject.

                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXECUTION LAWS.
                            Mr. WOODHULL, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned Mr. Packard's bill [134] to amend section 476 of the
                                practice act-[so as to abolish the five days in proceedings against
                                non-paying purchasers at sheriff sale, which require notice and
                                judgment at the next term of the Court; and deprive the purchaser of
                                the benefits of valuation and appraisement]-reporting the opinion
                                that further legislation on the subject is inexpedient, and a motion
                                that the bill lie on the table.

                            Mr. ATKISSON hoped the House would not coocur. It was a bill simply
                                to provide that an individual purchasing at sheriff sale, and
                                refusing to pay, shall not have the benefit of valuation and
                                appraisement law, when he is proceeded against by motion. Under the
                                law now, the defaulting purchaser has the benefit of valuation and
                                appraisement. He gave an example of hardship in collecting, where
                                such a person turned out a worthless old mill, &c. protected by
                                valuation. A man purchasing at sheriff sale ought not to have the
                                benefit of appraisement laws.

                            Mr. PACKARD was surprised at the report. It was simply to prevent
                                injustice and wrong in cases of purchasing at sheriff sale. He also
                                gave an example, and moved that the report be re-committed.

                            Mr. VEATCH. It provides for abolishing the five days' notice; it
                                gives ten per cent. damages and no stay of execution. It is often
                                the case that a man buys at sheriff sale without having an
                                opportunity to look into the title, and his title might not be worth
                                his money. The original judgment stands good; and the bill would
                                offer a double remedy. He considered the law wisely arranged, as it
                                now stands.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. The Committee had heretofore reported Mr. Atkisson's
                                bill [66] on the same point.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG considered that no argument. He was unwilling to
                                accept a report without the Committee alleging reasons for it. He
                                favored the bill. The executive plaintiff had not a double remedy
                                under it. If he takes one of the chances, then he has to advertise
                                again, &c. He would give a man a chance to collect his debts. It
                                was now five days notice, but it must be in the proper court.

                            Mr. VEATCH. Can't the sheriff sell again on the same day-re-offer the
                                property ?

                            Mr STOTSENBERG. Yes: but suppose the honest debtor tell him he will
                                pay it, then the Sheriff may wait, and the court will adjourn ; and
                                so ordinarily the creditor would have to wait until the next term of
                                the court; and then, if the man choose to turn out property worth
                                little or nothing, the execution creditor might never get his pay in
                                the world. The gentleman's argument would go against the right of
                                all sales. When property is sold by the sheriff on appraisement, the
                                bidder may easily find out its cash value. And if his property were
                                held to make his bid good without valuation or appraisement, he
                                would be more careful to go and see first, whether the title is good
                                or not. We were making laws for the benefit of the people of the
                                State, and not for speculators. Business men desire some chance to
                                collect their debts; and if a man buys property in this way, he
                                ought to pay for it, and pay for it soon. 

                            Mr. PACKARD. It could work hardship to no one. How could a person be
                                entrapped in bidding off property with published terms? That was a
                                strange way of being entrapped. If a person buy in this way, and
                                fail to pay, it must be from sinister motives. If he does not comply
                                with the terms of sale, let him take the consequences. He believed
                                the Judiciary
                                    Committee, on reflection, would report in favor of the
                                bill. It had the approval of good lawyers.

                            Mr. CAMERON hoped it would be recommitted. He did not want to protect
                                purchasers at sheriff sale.

                            Mr. EDSON said there were two sides to this question. The sheriffs
                                sell merely the interest of the holder, and sometimes the purchaser
                                is deceived. In such cases there would be hardship. He knew also
                                that the passage of this bill would be a benefit to the lawyers.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. How would it benefit the lawyers?

                            Mr. EDSON. Why, the man, before purchasing, would have to go and
                                consult a lawyer with regard to the title.

                            Mr. CAMERON. Does this bill propose to gave the purchaser?

                            Mr. EDSON. No; but if proposes a remedy for creditors.

                            Mr. ATKISSON. Do you propose to let the purchaser go on and buy, and
                                then give him time to get, counsel afterwards?

                            Mr. EDSON. No, sir; nor would it be right and just for him, if he
                                makes a bad purchase, to pay 10 per cent, damages, and so have his
                                property sold without benefit of the valuation laws to pay another
                                man's debt. 

                            Mr. JENKINSON. Suppose a man wants time, after purchasing.

                            Mr. EDSON. There were two remedies: one to re-offer tho property; the
                                other to get a rule for notice and sale at the next term.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. What was the plaintiff's remedy?

                            Mr. EDSON. If the purchaser does not take the property, one remedy
                                is, to re-offer it; and if it does not bring enough, take more, and
                                ten per cent, damages, without benefit of valuation or appraisement
                                laws.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB. Was not the three months advertisement sufficient time
                                to look after the title?

                            Mr. EDSON. Certainly. He admitted that there were two sides to this
                                question. There were no doubt fra ids perpetrated under the law as
                                it now stands. And this bill would work hardships in cases where
                                worthless property is bought. But it would guard against
                                irresponsible bidders.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. The sheriff was not bound to take an irresponsible
                                bidder.

                            Mr. EDSON. Neither was he bound to postpone the sale. He gave
                                examples.

                            Mr. CASON hoped the matter would be voted on now. It had been twice
                                considered by the committee. If they were to report differently, it
                                would be merely to accommodate the House. In reply to Mr.
                                Stotsenberg's allusion to the lack of reasoning in the report, he
                                did not understand it the duty of any committee to put a stump
                                speech into every report. The reading of the bill before the House
                                would answer better. The matter stands thus : The property may be
                                unsound, title bad-the sale goes on-the property is struck off, and
                                if the money is not paid, the sheriff sells again immediately, and
                                the judgment creditor has a right to the difference between what it
                                brought, at the first and las sale, if it sell lower. &c.

                            Mr. PARRETT moved to lay the motion tn re-commit on the table, but
                                withdrew for a direct vote on concurrence in the report.

                            Mr. PACKARD demanded the yeas and nays which being ordered and taken,
                                resulted-yeas 50, nays 43 ; so the report was concurred in, and the
                                bill laid on the table. 

                        
                        

                        
                            EXTRA SERVICE OF SHERIFFS AND CLERKS.
                            Mr. BUNDY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Nebeker's bill [8] to provide allowance to sheriffs and clerks
                                of the Circuit and Common Pleas Courts for extra services and
                                reported an amendment by way of substitute. The substitute [187]
                                provides thai the Board of County Commissioners shall allow their
                                clerks and sheriffs an annual compensation for extra services not
                                exceeding $100 each; but no such allowance shall be made until the
                                clerk or sheriff shall have filed a detailed statement of his extra
                                services and the ordinary charges therefor. The Board shall then
                                make such reasonable allowance as they shall see proper, but in no
                                case exceeding $100.

                            Mr. B. said his was a substitute for Mr. Nebeker's bill. But still he
                                thought $150 too small. He proposed to further amend by inserting
                                $200 for $100. Some discretion should be confided to the
                                commissioners. This was a revival of the law of 1852. There had been
                                progress in business since. There were abuses under the act of 1855,
                                which gave unlimited dircretion to the commissioners. But here the
                                discretion was limited again. They were not required, of course, to
                                come up to the limit. His amendment was for the larger counties.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. Would not the office of sheriff be better in Warren than
                                Marion under that bill?

                            Mr. BUNDY. The sheriff was the poorest paid officer in the State; but
                                he still would prefer the office in the larger county.

                            The matter passed over for the special order of the day.

                            Mr. VEATCH (by unanimous consent) returned from a majority of the
                                    Judiciary Committee Mr. Nebeker's bill [39]
                                to authorize new counties, &c., with sundry verbal and clerical
                                amendments, recommending passage.

                            Mr. CASON, on the part of a minority of said committee, also
                                recommended the passage of the bill, with an amendment to the
                                effect, That nothing in this bill shall operate so as to supercede
                                any proceedings heretofore commenced for the organization of new
                                counties, but that all such cases shall proceed under the law as it
                                now exists.

                            Mr. VEATCH moved that tho bill and  amendments lie on the table, and be
                                made the special order for Wednesday next.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed "Thursday," to get beyond the time of Mr.
                                Lincoln's visit.

                            Mr. VEATCH acquiesced.

                            Mr. WOODHULL moved to print the bill, He urged caution on this
                                subject, from the fact that the journals show that the bill of the
                                last session became a law without embodying the intent of the
                                Legislature.

                            Mr. McLEAN also alleged that the new county bill of 1859 was passed
                                through fraud or mistake. He confessed that he himself voted for it
                                by mistake.

                            Mr. BUNDY asked for a division of the question.

                            Mr. FRASIER opposed printing, because every member was now perfectly
                                conversant with its provisions. The only question was, whether the
                                amendment reported by the minority should be adopted.

                            On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, the motion to print was laid on the
                                table.

                            The report and bill were then laid on the table, and made the special
                                order for next Thursday at 10 o'clock.

                            Messrs. Moody, Davis, Heffren and Collins, of Adams, had leave of
                                absence on account of indisposition. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONVENTIONAL INTEREST.

                            The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz.: the consideration of
                                Mr. Orr's conventional interest bill [84], to regulate interest on
                                money, to repeal the act of May 27, 1852, and repeal, &c., ($6 a
                                year on $100, or at any rate contracted, not exceeding $10 on
                                $100.

                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER the House resolved into committee of the
                                whole on the subject-Mr. Nebeker in the Chair-and the bill was
                                considered by sections.

                            In the first section-

                            Mr. BRANHAM proposed to amend by striking out " ten," and inserting
                                "six" and at the proper time he would move to repeal all laws in
                                relation to usury.

                            Mr. BUNDY. That was to place it where the law is now. This was a
                                subject that has excited a great deal of attention-the rate of
                                interest on the loan of money. It had been peculiarly exciting in
                                this State for the last few years. At every late session of the
                                General Assembly it had been presented and debated time after time.
                                It was evident that there is a great desire on the part of the
                                community that some change should be made-that some discretion
                                should be allowed to those who want to borrow money-that there
                                should be some latitude for agreement as to the rate of interest,
                                instead of holding them rigidly to the horizontal line of six per
                                cent. He considered that a larger discretion should be allowed. The
                                discretion asked for in this bill was allowed in the States of
                                Michigan and Illinois; and it was so much desired in this State by
                                our own citizens that they would go over the line into those States
                                and make their contracts, so that they could enforce them legally
                                here. This was done frequently. Why was it that the laws of the
                                State of New York fixed the rate of interest at 7 per cent., others
                                at 8 per cent., and other States higher? And why was it that parties
                                were so frequently ready to contract and pay even 12 per cent? It
                                was because there is no uniform value of money. It was like any
                                other article of commerce-it fluctuates in accordance with the law
                                of supply and demand. With money it was just as it is with corn or
                                wheat; when it is scarce it is high; and when it is plenty it is
                                low. Any man that would examine tho subject must be satisfied, that
                                you cannot, in justice to the community, fix upon any rate of
                                interest lower than its current value. Money was an article of
                                trade, having no uniform value, as might be seen in the various
                                interest law of New York, fixing interest at 7 cents, Alabama fixing
                                it at 8 cents, and in some States at 5 cents. Our ideas on the
                                subject of usury were borrowed from the old laws of England ; but
                                did gentlemen know that we are many years behind England in our
                                legislation on that subject? It was originally fixed there as a
                                restraint upon the Jews, who at one time held control over the money
                                capital of Europe. But England had long since abandoned her usury
                                laws, and now it is thrown open there and made a matter of contract;
                                and no punishment is inflated on a man for taking a greater rate
                                than 5 or 6 per cent. When gentlemen refer to precedents, he would
                                call their attention to this fact. England had progressed. We had
                                not kept pace with England on this question. He repeated that it was
                                a question of commerce-of supply and demand. You might just as well
                                say that every bushel of corn shall be worth just 25 cents, as to
                                say that the use of a dollar shall be 6 cents a year. You might just
                                as well say that a bushel of wheat shall be always worth one dollar,
                                as that when we borrow a dollar we shall always pay 6 cents for it
                                at the end of the year. He was for allowing parties to contract for
                                a rate higher than 6 per cent, for another reason, and that was,
                                that in every community no attention whatever was paid to the usury
                                laws. In the State of Ohio there was no penalty for the violation of
                                their usury laws. They will always be disregarded by commercial men,
                                for the reason that tho rate of interest will always be regulated by
                                supply and demand. It is, or it ought to be, a matter of
                                contract.

                            The banks, as a general thing, did not want to have this law. It was
                                to their advantage to have deposits. They generally pay no interest
                                on deposits, and they profit 12 or 18 per cent, by holding them.
                                Therefore he was not surprised to find those representing the
                                banking interests on hand against the passage of such a bill as
                                this. Was there anything wrong in allowing the smaller capitalist to
                                loan at 10 per cent., whilst the banks make 12 to 18  per cent.? Individuals in this matter
                                were not on a level with corporations. How had the banks the
                                advantage ? They could discount bills and notes at discretion-buy a
                                bill of exchange at 12 to 18 per cent, discount-buy a note at
                                discount. That was taking a greater interest than 6 per cent, by an
                                indirection. Such, under the decision of the Courts, was the
                                talismanic power of the word Bank. The smaller capitalist was
                                compelled to put his money in bank at 4 or 6 per cent., because he
                                is unable to compete with the bank in loaning: He maintained that
                                the present rate was too small from analogy; because, when it was
                                established, the whole volume of the precious metals of the country
                                did not exceed $100,000,000. Since then, its volume has been
                                increased four fold. As a proof that money was worth more than 6 per
                                cent., where do you find a man loaning for 6 per cent.? Everything
                                else had increased in price-lands and produce had doubled-why, then,
                                insist on this horizontal, fixed rate on money? Should everything
                                else progress, and this alone stand still? It was unjust, unequal,
                                and the result of it was to drive capital out of the State. In his
                                region, the farmers were the wealthy class, and they loaned, not to
                                their neighbors, but in Cincinnati, &c. 

                            Mr. BRANHAM'S proposition was, that the legal rate should be 6 per
                                cent.; and that all usury laws be repealed, and interest regulated
                                by contract. He intended to move a re-commitment for such an
                                amendment. He would not have any deduction of the principal loaned,
                                as a penalty for usury; but when the law enforces collection, let
                                the lender collect 6 per cent. He would place the people of the
                                State in a position to make the most of their capital.

                            Mr. CAMERON. Under the amendment, you codld collect but 6 per cent.
                                That would open a door for the operations of a class of persons who
                                would contract for a higher rate than they intend to pay. The law
                                was made to restrain that class of men. The supply of money was not
                                equal to the demand in the north counties. They were older and
                                better off in the southern counties. The people demand this law in
                                the North. His county now could get money in Chicago at 10 per
                                cent., but if they could not give the securities, they had to go
                                into the banks and pay 12 to 18 per cent. Was there a moral, a
                                Scriptural rate of interest ? Certainly not. This procrustean idea
                                had been sufficiently refuted by Mr. Bundy. It had been said, if you
                                make it 10 per cent., the lenders would take no less. But the fact
                                was, capital would return to the State and make money plentier. He
                                hoped his rich friends of the South would consider-

                            Mr. VEATCH [interposing] was very anxious to know in what part of the
                                State that happy land was located.

                            Mr. CAMERON was told by the gentleman from Martin that it was in the
                                gentleman's county. This bill was for the benefit of poor men and
                                money borrowers, and not for capitalists. 

                            Mr. POLK. It becomes a question whether it is wise to allow laws to
                                remain in the statute book that are every day wantonly violated.
                                Such a course is not calculated to cultivate that respect which
                                insures obedience to the laws.

                            The law, regulating the rate of interest, is founded upon the
                                mistaken presumption that usury is a sin. When our laws allow any
                                interest at all, we in effect deny the sin of usury Then the
                                argument that the taking usury is a sin is no
                                longer tenable among us.

                            But the argument that the law can regulate the price of money, cannot
                                be so easily dig. posed of. Let us look at it. Money, as money is of
                                no use; but as a medium of exchange, it becomes the most valuable
                                article a man can possess. It enters so minutely into the affairs of
                                life, in creating demands, in supplying them, and in attaching value
                                to our products that it may readily be classed with productive
                                capital, second only to labor, and like labor subject to the same
                                laws.

                            To say that our Legislature should enact that labor should demand an
                                equal price in all lacalities and under all circumstances, would be
                                simply ridiculous. No one would for a moment entertain such a
                                thought; nor would this body think of declaring that no person shall
                                receive more than five dollars per barrel for flour. It is the same
                                with money as it is with labor. There are times and places when and
                                where the demand is greater; and in such cases it is worth more. For
                                instance-the farmers of Marion county secure a rich harvest, and
                                have a large surplus to sell. To move this surplus, money is
                                demanded, and inducements are held out for it to flow this way. That
                                is, a better price must be offered than money is getting at other
                                points.

                            By what principle do we say that a person has no right to take for an
                                article what he can get, or give for an article what he thinks he
                                can afford? Surely the law can not see all the circumstances
                                surrounding the contracting parties. It does not know that a person
                                can not afford to take six per cent., nor that a person can not
                                afford to pay more than six per cent.

                            The law regulating interest on money is rather calculated to increase
                                the interest than keep it down. For there are conscientious and law
                                abiding men, who, rather than take so small a price will either
                                horde their money or send it to a better market. Hence the borrower
                                is forced to go to those who are willing to violate the law, and for
                                the risk they run, they must be compensated, and besides they are
                                genrally of that class of money lenders whose consciences become
                                seared, and will take all that the necessities of the borrower
                                require him to give. 

                            To take another view : When the laws do  not allow persons at home to receive
                                the worth of money at home, it will go abroad for more profitable
                                investment,-to be loaned in States where a greater per cent, is
                                given,-or to the West, to purchase wild lands, and there lay idle to
                                await the rise.

                            I cannot see why we should have any law fixing a price on money. To
                                be sure men who borrow are liable to be shaved; but are not die
                                renters of houses, buyers of produce, and the hirers of labor liable
                                in the same way ? yet I look upon the present bill as an improvement
                                on the old law, therefore, I am for it. 

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, said this had teen called an attempt to
                                break down the Democratic party, and so far as that was concerned,
                                it might be he was a Republican. He referred to the hardships of the
                                present law, and to the fact that in the more prosperous, leading
                                States of the Union, a conventional interest was authorized. The
                                penalties against usury kept money out of use in this State, and it
                                went to Illinois, Ohio, and elsewhere. He referred to the
                                disingenuousness of bank men in 1857 on this proposition. Its
                                passage was against the interests of the banks. He concurred in the
                                remarks of Mr. Cameron. The amendment of Mr. Branham was not
                                sufficient. He referred to his own experience to illustrate the
                                advantage in borrowing money at 10 per cent.

                            Mr. FRASIER The gentleman's success was no argument for the bill. He
                                took issue with Mr. Bundy, that money was an article of value like
                                any other article of trade. It was the representative of value. If
                                the bill, in its provisions, was confined to money lending, it would
                                be a different thing ; but then he might vote against it. The
                                argument that the bordering States which have adopted 10 percent.
                                were impoverishing us was not good, for we were drawing in the
                                interest continually, and the principal would come too, some day.
                                But Ohio has gone back to six per cent. He hail heard it stated that
                                the banks were averse to this bill; but he could not see why they
                                should be, because they always had lawful interest and added
                                exchange on all the money they give out. Then our merchants usually
                                sell their goods on sixth months credit. Pass this bill, and no
                                merchant would draw a note of hand with less than 10 per cent,
                                interest. Thus the burden of the provision would be made to fall on
                                the class of people least able to bear it. It would place the debtor
                                at the mercy of the creditor. He was in favor of the amendment of
                                Mr. Branham-the repeal of the usury laws.

                            Mr. LANE also endorsed the amendment. It was a singular argument to
                                raise the rate of interest for the benefit of poor men. If the
                                gentleman from Bartholomew-a sharp business man-could make money on
                                a loan at 10 per cent., it was no assurance that other men could do
                                it. Not many men were money-leaders, and this bill was for the
                                benefit of those. If 10 per cent, were the legal rate, our merchants
                                would compel the payment of that rate in all cases. The bill would
                                benefit one man in twenty and injure all.

                            Mr. NEBEKER could not see how banks were benefitted under the present
                                interest laws. If a poor man has $50 on hand, he deposits rather
                                than loan it. He can not compete with the banks. But, it was said,
                                the banks, if this rate is allowed, will take the greater rate.
                                Certainly, they get what they can. The courts had decided that they
                                may charge interest and exchange. There was no way to restrain banks
                                by legislation against money. He wag a friend to banks, but he
                                wanted to allow all men to compete with the banks. No man dared to
                                plead usury against a bank, because, by the completeness of their
                                correspondence, they could close the doors of all the banks in the
                                country against any man they choose.

                            Mr. DOBBINS opposed the bill. He understood the interests of
                                mechanics and laboring men. Increase of interest-and all interest
                                laws, perhaps-was wrong. The six per cent. was a compromise between
                                capitalists and laboring men. Ohio had returned to it, and Illinois
                                was prostrated because she had not. Would an increase of interest
                                increase the value of labor? He supposed not. But the operations of
                                the merchants were conclusive against the bill. The hardships would
                                fall on the consumers. It would also have the effect to increase all
                                the evils of the credit system. The States of Ohio, Kentucky,
                                Virginia and our own State, coming back to six per cent., was a
                                fact, conclusive to his mind, against the bill. This question was
                                met by him fully before the people, and they had sustained him. He
                                did not see any force in the argument that the present interest laws
                                were violated.

                            Mr. EDSON did not think it necessary to make any change in the
                                interest laws. He referred to the cases of failure in practice of
                                the principle of a conventional interest in other States than our
                                own. He replied to Mr. Bundy's argument for a greater rate because
                                there is more money. The contrary was the true principle-when money
                                is diminished in value the rate of interest should be dimished also.
                                The effect of the passage of this bill would be to cause every man
                                now in debt to be sued, or give new notes drawing 10 per cent. The
                                question was nothing to the banks now, in the present money crisis.
                                They could not discount now. The banks and individuals were on the
                                same footing so far as usury is concerned. No increase of interest
                                could prevent usury by sharpers. If the principle claimed were true,
                                there should be no restriction, but perfect free trade in
                                money-lending.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend, by inserting a clause to the
                                effect, that in no case shall any person or corporation contract for
                                or receive a greater rate of interest than 10 per cent., including
                                therein exchange, &c. 

                            

                             Mr. PACKARD thought the passage of the bill desirable for
                                all-laborers and capitalists. He was for labor in preference to
                                capital, where these interests conflict; but here was conflict: Mr
                                Bundy had shown that the present law belongs to a period in English
                                history too long past to be a guide for us. The principle of
                                increasing the rate of interest did not admit of the conclusion of
                                Mr. Edson, that there should be no restriction at all. He argued at
                                some length against the assumption that this measure would oppress
                                the poorer and laboring classes. All business now carried on, on
                                borrowed capital, was by money borrowed at 10 per cent.; and when
                                they could not get along at that rate, they stopped. There was a
                                matter of competition that would prevent the oppression insinuated
                                against the merchants requiring 10 per cent, on their goods. He saw
                                nothing in favor of Mr. Bran-ham's amendment. He was for Mr.
                                Stotsenberg's amendment. He believed in restricting corporations. He
                                insisted that there was an intense demand for this bill, and that
                                therein was a good argument for it. Let us at least try the
                                experiment. When it was replied that we had tried it, he insisted
                                that it was not tried when the resources of the State were developed
                                as they are now. Let us try the rate that our sister States are
                                trying with advantage, and keep our capital at home.

                            He gave way and the committee rose, reported progress, and asked and
                                obtained leave to sit again. 

                        
                        

                        
                            THE "CALL" OF YESTERDAY.
                             Mr. STOTSENBERG. The sergeant-at-arms desires me to inform the House
                                that he has several members in his custody, under the warrant of the
                                Speaker, and desires to be informed what he is to do with them.

                            After several humorous passages between the Chair, Messrs. Gresham,
                                Smith of Bartholomew, McLean and others-

                            On motion by Mr. FRASIER, the absentees were discharged, upon payment
                                of costs.

                            On motion hy Mr. VEATCH, (by consent,) his bill [62], for five
                                additional bank districts, was taken up, read the second time, and
                                referred to the Committee on Banks. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXTRA SERVICES OF SHERIFFS AND CLERKS.
                            This subject (Mr. Nebeker's bill, No. 8) was again taken up, and Mr.
                                Bundy's amendment laid on the table-yeas 69, nays 16-and the
                                question recurred on concurrence in the amendment submitted by the
                                minority of the Committee on the Judiciary.

                            The House then adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            FRIDAY, February 8,1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the reading of the journal was dispensed
                            with.

                        Mr. O'BRIEN presented a petition, which was referred to the
                                Committee on Corporations without reading. 

                        
                            QUALIFICATIONS OF VOTERS.
                            Mr. WHITE, from the Committee on Elections,
                                returned Mr. Landers' bill, S. 47-see pages 63, 96 and 97 of these
                                Reports, recommending passage, with an amendment requiring a voter
                                to reside in the State six months preceding an election, and not
                                less than thirty days in a township or ward, in all elections except
                                the April election ; for that, leaving the law as it now stands.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN. That is worse than though it operated the other way. It
                                is in the fall season that young men who work out and labor near the
                                township lines, change their residence more often than in the spring
                                of the year, and I am opposed to the amendment on that ground.

                            Mr. LANDERS. The amendment is not in accordance with my notions,
                                although I consented to it. I differ with the Senator from Posey: I
                                think the moving generally takes place in the spring, and in the
                                fall there is but little emigration except for the purpose of
                                carrying elections. We cannot expect to make a law that will meet
                                every case.

                            Mr. BLAIR. Any bill that is designed to protect the purity of the
                                ballot-box should protect the April election as well as all others:
                                for it is at that election men are chosen who control the ballot-box
                                at every other election. There is a bill which I introduced,
                                containing several other provisions with regard to conducting
                                elections, and I think it proper that these two bills should be got
                                together, in order that the Committee may make up a bill which will
                                as effectually protect the ballot-box as possible. I move to
                                re-commit the bill, with the pending amendments, to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.

                            The motion was agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.
                            By Mr. STUDABAKER: Returning Mr. Dickinson's bill, S. 25-see page
                                30-with an amendment, recommending passage.

                            By Mr. SLACK : Returning a resolution inquiring by what right the
                                darn across the Calumet river, at Blue Island, in the State of
                                Illinois, is maintained: reporting that the question submitted is
                                one of intricacy, that the Committee have not the time nor means to
                                investigate the subject satisfactorily, and recommend that the
                                subject matter of the resolution be referred to the Attorney
                                General, whose opinion thereon will no doubt be satisfactory and
                                conclusive.

                            By Mr. CRAVEN: Returning Mr. Line's bill, S. 54-see page
                                69-recommending passage, with an amendment that no allowance be made
                                only upon a claim filed, accompanied with a certificate of the clerk
                                of the court, that the convicted party is insolvent; and an
                                additional section that such attorney shall receive no compensation
                                except as provided in this act, and on failure to appear, shall
                                receive no fees, and the court or justice shall appoint a
                                substitute, and that all other instructions be laid  upon the table. Also, returning Mr.
                                Wilson's bill S. 42-see page 30-recommending that it lie on the
                                table.

                            Mr. RAY, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, returned Mr. Conley's bill S. 42-see page 69,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.

                            Which reports were severally concurred in 
                        
                        

                        
                            COURTS OF CONCILIATION.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL, from the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts returned Mr. Slack's bill [S. 2-see page 12]
                                recommending passage.

                            Mr. MARCH. This bill proposes to repeal an act which has been upon
                                the statute books since 1852. An attempt has been made to repeal it
                                at every session since, and at every session it has failed. The
                                object of that statute is to prevent litigation, and in these times
                                when we are talking about compromise and peace I trust we will set
                                an example at home upon a little question like this.

                            Mr. RAY. I pronounce the whole provision a humbug and sham; it was so
                                from the be-ginning, and is so up to this time. It never was a
                                provision that promoted the peace and harmony of society, nor is it
                                intended to cut off in any degree litigation or the fees of
                                attorneys, but instead of being promotive of right and peace, it
                                amounts to a denial of justice. I have never known an instance where
                                a mertorious case was compromised in this way. It is a regular
                                star-chamber performance. 

                            [A message from the House announced the passage of the Cravens bill
                                [S. 74] to fix the time of holding the circuit courts in the seventh
                                judicial circuit.]

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. This is an importation from the Yankee land, and is to
                                be avoided. You make the court of Common Pleas the purchased lawyer
                                of both parties-a regular monkey nibbling the cheese upon both
                                sides. In my district, no case has been compromised under this
                                statute; it simply enables parties to drag individuals before the
                                court, and by a little closed-door palavar, send them out with ft
                                five dollar bill in the pocket of the judge, and malignant feelings
                                rankling in their bosoms.

                            Mr. MURRAY. It is enough for me to know, as a Senator on this floor,
                                that that law was placed upon the statute-books for the pur pose of
                                keeping out litigation from the courts. Have you a single petition
                                coming from the people asking its repeal? I never heard of such a
                                thing. I think it is just as convenient for parties to come before
                                the court of conciliation, and there litigate from court to court
                                through a term of years. Lawyers have an interest in this matter, or
                                they would not be in favor, year after year, of repealing the law. I
                                hope this Legislature will imitate past Legislatures, and vote down
                                this bill. 

                            Mr. MARCH. If the Senator from Fayette ever had the benefit of a
                                Yankee school education under a birch stick, he would have learned
                                that there never was a court in that country. I venture that if a
                                vote of the people could be taken, it would be the voice of
                                ninety-nine out of every hundred. Let it stand. It is the
                                break-water to litigation. I look upon it as the worthiest feature
                                upon our statue books. I think it holds out the banner of peace.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. Whenever I think a law is an injudicious one, I shall
                                vote to repeal it, but whenever I think a law acts beneficially, I
                                shall vote against its repeal. In my own county but one case has
                                come within the scope of this law, but I know of several cases that
                                have been settled by it, where they might have been litigated for
                                years. I shall vote against the repeal of the law.

                            Mr. LANDERS. I am convinced of the propriety of still retaining the
                                law. I see no necessity for its repeal, I have heard no complaint in
                                my section of country, therefore I am inclined to vote against the
                                report. While a law is working well, there is no necessity for its
                                repeal.

                            Mr. SLACK. I cannot see why Senators will vote against concurring in
                                this report when the universal testimony, almost of any one who has
                                any experience with reference to the workings of this law, are
                                averse thereto. There is not a practicing attorney on this floor who
                                will say any good ever came from this law except the Senator from
                                Delaware whose bantling it is. I hope the law will be
                                unconditionally repealed, for no good can come out of it. 

                            Mr. FERGUSON. If we undertake to suppress all humbugs, we have taken
                                upon ourselves an endless task. Humbuggery may get into the
                                legislative halls as well as into courts of conciliation. If this
                                court prevents one law suit out of ten, I consider it has served -a
                                useful purpose. I take it the law does not work injustice enough-I
                                cannot say it works injustice to all-it cannot be so injudicious a
                                law as to require repeal. I shall therefore vote against the repeal
                                of this law.

                            Mr. WOLFE. When this law for the establishment of courts of
                                conciliation in the State of Indiana was first enacted, I had but a
                                single objection to it, and that objection has increased somewhat.
                                The only objection I had was in regard to the fact that it permitted
                                sharp, shrewd, calculating men to have an advantage over a plain
                                common man. We all know however honest a judge may be, he must
                                decide upon a case according to the facts as they are related, and a
                                sharp man can always get the advantage of a plain common man in
                                making a statement. I am not satisfied with an amendment which would
                                confer such favor upon clerks of courts. The objection I think is
                                sufficient to warrant me in sustaining the report of the
                                committee.

                            The Senate refused to concur in tho committee report.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. I move to recommit  with instructions to so amend the bill
                                as to repeal the 10th section of the act constituting the court of
                                conciliation. I am willing to compromise this matter by not
                                compelling parties to go into it. My knowledge of the court is that
                                it is about as much humbug as anything else, and a large share of
                                cases taken there are without any cause that would justify a
                                litigation. If the 10th section was repealed they would not think of
                                going into court to litigate such matters as that, and since the
                                common pleas districts are so large it will be inconvenient to get a
                                judge to hold such courts.

                            Mr. MARCH. The Senator's proposition nullifies the law without
                                stating it 'on its face. It is a very adroit move to throw dust into
                                the eyes of gentlemen and get it voted down.

                            On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN, the bill and pending amendments were
                                indefinitely postponed-yeas 22, nays 17.-as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS-Messrs. Bearss, Beeson, Carnahan,
                                            Conley, Ferguson of Hamilton, Hull, Johnson, Jones,
                                            Landers, March, Miller, Murray, Odell, Robinson,
                                            Shields, Steele, Stone, Teegarden, Turner, White, and
                                            Williams-22

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Anthony, Berry, Blair,
                                            Claypool, Conner, Craven of Madison, Dickinson, Grubb,
                                            Line, Lomax, Newcomb, Eay, Shoulders, Slack, Studabaker,
                                            Wilson, and Wolfe-17. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            By Mr. CONNER: Organization of Courts-returning a
                                resolution inquiring into the expediency of abolishing the grand
                                jury system, with a report that no further legislation is
                                necessary.

                            By Mr. DICKINSON: Same-returning a resolution, inquiring into the
                                expediency of abolishing courts of common pleas, and establishing a
                                surrogate system for probate business, recommending that it be
                                indefinitely postponed.

                            By Mr. HULL: Roads-returning Mr. Lo-Lomax's bill,
                                S. 27-see page 30-recommending that it lie on the table, as existing
                                laws embrace its object.

                            Mr. BEESON : Agriculture-returning Mr. Conley's
                                bill, S. 80-see page 93-recommending that it lie on the table.

                            Mr. DICKINSON, from the Select Committee thereon, reported a bill [S.
                                148] to provide for the election of United States Senators, and
                                defining the duties of certain officers thereto, which was read the
                                first time.

                            Mr. STEELE, from the Lincoln Reception Committee, reported that the
                                President elect would leave his home at eight o'clock next, Monday
                                morning, arrive at the State Line at 12:30, arrive in Lafayette at
                                2:30, and arrive in this city at 5, by special trains all the way;
                                and that they intend to publish a programme in the morning papers to
                                be observed on that occasion.

                            Which reports were severally concurred in.

                            [Mr. JONES offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                instructing the Judiciary Committee to inquire
                                into the expediency of amending Mr. Landers' bill. [S. 47] so as to
                                make betting on elections disqualify a voter.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced severally passed the first
                                reading, without'objection :

                            By Mr. LINE: [149] To authorize superintendent or other person having
                                charge of county asylums for the poor, to discharge in mates from
                                the same on certain conditions; and to apprentice minors
                                therein.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: [150] To amend sections 4 and 7 of an act to provide
                                for the election, fixing the compensation, and prescribing the
                                duties of Attorney Generals of the State of Indiana; approved
                                February 21, 1855.

                            By Mr. DICKINSON: [151] To amend an act approved March 5, 1859, to
                                amend section 42 of an act to establish courts of common pleas,
                                &c., approved May 14, 1852, so as to regulate the docket, and
                                for the disposal of business thereof.

                            By Mr. DICKINSON: [152] To amend an act to provide for the return" of
                                the jury for the common pleas court on the third day of the term,
                                approved March 5 1859, so as the jury may be returned on the second
                                day of the term.

                            By Mr. CARNAHAN: [153] For the relief of Catherine P. Whittlesy, and
                                to vest in her certain real estate of John Liridsey, which has
                                escheated to he State: rules suspended-yeas 24, nays 1-read the
                                second time by title only, and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            By Mr. TEEGARDEN : [154] To amend section 4 and repeal section 7 of
                                an act concerning interest on money ; approved May 27, 1852.

                            By Mr. MILLER: [155] To amend an act defining felonies, and
                                prescribing punishment therefor; approved May 10, 1852.

                            By Mr. RAY: [156] To regulate the descent and distribution of
                                property of adopted children.

                            By Mr. MARCH : [157] To amend sections 1, 11 and 12 of an act to
                                exempt property from sale in certain cases; approved February 17,
                                1852.

                            By Mr. GRUBB: [158] To amend section 1 of an act to concerning
                                interest on money, approved May 27, 1S52, so it may be ten per cent,
                                by written contract. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CLINCHING THE RULE FOE, BUT ONE SESSION A
                                DAY.
                            Mr. MURRAY moved to re-consider the vote by which the resolution was
                                adopted, providing for but one session of the Senate each day.

                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the motion to re-consider was laid on the
                                table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            POLL TAX FOR COUNTY PURPOSES.
                            Mr. Wolfe's bill [S. 57-see page 69 of these Reports]-being read the
                                third time-

                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to re-commit, so that the tax shall not exceed 50
                                cents on the 100 dollars. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 16, 1861
                        No. 13
                    

                    
                        
                        Mr. WOLFE. There is no law authorizing county boards to levy a poll tax
                            for county purposes, and this bill is to remedy that oversight in the
                            law.

                        The motion to re-commit was agreed to.

                        [Leave of absence was obtained for Mr. Hull, Mr, Tarkington and Mr.
                            Turner till Monday night.] 

                        
                            RETAINING COLLECTIOTS-FELONY.

                            Mr. Robbing's bill [S. 60,] (see page 88 of these reports,) being
                                read the third time-

                            Mr. RAY said: I am opposed to this bill. I indorse the policy of
                                making the penalties very severe where parties are entrusted with
                                public funds, where, as a matter of necessity, from their official
                                position, they are bound to receive funds, and from their official
                                position, parties are bound to pay funds to them; but here is a law
                                that proposes something new under the sun. It proposes to convert
                                the unfortunate lawyer or clerk into a felon, without making any
                                corresponding liability on the other side. The least public
                                grievance I know of is the failure of attorneys to pay over moneys
                                to their clients. The bill is an outrage ; there is no justice nor
                                policy in it.

                            Mr. MILLER. I don't think it takes a long argument to convince
                                gentlemen of the injustice of this bill. There is no sense, nor
                                justice, nor reason, in it. I move that the bill be indefinitely
                                postponed.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. The provisions of this bill are wrong, but some
                                legislation might be right and proper. The object the author had in
                                introducing this bill was probably a good one. I am in favor of
                                inaugurating a general system to prevent embezzlement. I suggest
                                that this matter be passed over in the absence of the gentleman who
                                introduced it. I should be compelled to vote against the bill as it
                                is, but it might be referred to a committee and a proper bill
                                reported.

                            The motion to postpone was rejected.

                            On motion of Mr. CLAYPOOL, the bill was referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee, with instructions to
                                perfect it. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SHEEP-KILLING DOGS.

                            On motion by Mr. LINE, his bill [133,] and Mr. Murray's bill [S.
                                134,] providing for the Protection of sheep, (introduced yesterday,)
                                were taken up, read the second time, and referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WHITLEY COUNTY COURTS.

                            On motion by Mr. CONNER, the bill [H. R. 152] fixing the time of
                                holding courts in Whitley county, was taken up and read the first
                                time; rules suspended-yeas 37, nays 2-read the second time by title
                                only, and ordered to a third reading to-morrow.

                            Mr. Turner's bill [S. 79,] (see page 97 of these reports, being read
                                the third time-

                            Mr. TURNER said: The present law admits the killing of prairie
                                chickens from the 1st of August till the 1st of January. The only
                                change is, that it permits the killing from the 1st of September
                                till the 1st of February.

                            Was finally passed by yeas 29, nays 11. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JURISDICTION IN CIVIL CASES.

                            Mr. Jones's bill [S. 77,] (see page 96 of these reports,] being read
                                the third time-

                            Was finally passed by yeas 37, nays 3. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES AND REAL ESTATE.

                            Mr. Lomax's bill [S. 73,] (see page 96 of these reports,) being read
                                the third time-

                            On motion by Mr. WOLFE, it was recommitted, with instructions to
                                insert a clause legalizing the acts of societies that have purchased
                                land heretofore.

                            The PRESIDENT announced that an exhibition of the Deaf and Dumb
                                belonging to the State Asylum, would take place in Masonic Hall
                                Thursday evening, before members of the Legislature.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, February 8, 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.

                            Mr. JENKINSON presented the petition of sundry citizens for
                                legislation against sheep-killing dogs.

                            Mr. ANDERSON presented the petition of J. H. Violett and others, of
                                Elkhart county, for the same object. They were severally referred to
                                the Committee on Agriculture. 
                        
                        

                        
                            7TH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.

                            Mr. ORR, from the Select Committee thereon, returned the bill, [S.
                                74,] to fix the terms of courts in the 7th Circuit-the counties of
                                Hancock, Hamilton, Madison, Tipton, Delaware, Howard and Blackford, without
                                amendment, and recommending passage.

                            The report was concurred in, and the bill passed the third reading in
                                the House of Representatives-yeas 75, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. RAGAN, from the Committee on Elections,
                                returned the petition of Lewis Rush and others, citizens of Wayne
                                county, on the subject of keeping pure the ballot box, and reported
                                further legislation unnecessary; that they had examined the patent
                                ballot box of Miles J. Shinn; are of opinion that it is of great
                                value, and recommend its procurement.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            He also reported on the credentials of members, finding all correct,
                                except that the committee had not received the credentials of Mr.
                                Combs and Mr. Jones, of Tippecanoe. It was proper, he said, to state
                                that both these gentlemen had presented here their cetificates of
                                election. The committee simply report the facts.

                            Mr. EDSON, from the Committee, on the Judiciary,
                                returned his bill [124] to cure defects by deputies, &c.,
                                recommending passage.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. Did the bill prohibit deputy clerks from practicing
                                law?

                            Mr. EDSON. No. The object of the bill was simply to cure defects
                                where an individual has been engaged as a deputy clerk, without
                                being sworn in.

                            Mr. GRESHAM would like to have the bill recommitted for the purpose
                                of including such a provision.

                            Mr. EDSON hoped that course would not be taken. He was in favor of
                                the measure, but it would be better in another bill.

                            Mr. WOODHULL did not think the amendment of the gentleman germane to
                                the bill.

                            The House refused to recommit; the report was concurred in, and then
                                the bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. WOODHULL, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned the petition of Henry R. Pomeroy and others, of Warren
                                county, for the repeal of the new county acts, and reported that,
                                having already reported a bill on the subject, the committee
                                consider further action inexpedient at present.

                            Mr. GRESHAM returned the bill to repeal section 15 of the act of May
                                12, 1852, concerning promissory notes, and to amend the practice
                                act, and reported a motion that it lie on the table.

                            Mr. FISHER returned the petition of P. R. White and others, for a
                                conventional interest, and reported (referring to their bill on that
                                subject) that it lie on the table.

                            [Mr. Roberts obtained leave of absence-indisposition.]

                            Mr. CASON returned Mr. Stotsenberg's bill [30] to amend the 78th
                                section of the practice act, and recommended its passage. This, he
                                said, was a bill in relation to change of venue-to correct the
                                doubtful provision, whether the original papers are to be
                                transmitted or not. It simply provides that where the change is
                                granted, the clerk shall make out and send along a
                                transcript-leaving the original papers where they belong.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed; and the several reports, from
                                the Judiciary Committee, were concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE CANAL AT EVANSVILLE.

                            He also returned Mr. Hopkins's bill [131] to release the trustees of
                                the Wabash and Erie Canal from keeping up said canal within the
                                corporate limits of Evansville, with verbal amendments, recommending
                                its passage. It provides, he said, that that portion of the canal in
                                the city of Evansville may be filled up by the trustees upon all
                                parties interested signing: an agreement to that effect.

                            Mr. EDSON. The canal at Evansville was going down, and unless
                                Something is done speedily will be discontinued entirely in a few
                                years. It was very densely populated along the line there, and if it
                                goes down, it becomes nothing but standing water and injurious to
                                health. It was merely giving the permission of the State that that
                                portion of it may be filled up.

                            Mr. NEBEKER did not know who were deemed to be parties interested
                                here. It might do if the bill contemplated that every bondholder
                                should sign the release; but, if it was to involve the State again,
                                and make the State liable for the six millions of dollars, or
                                whatsoever is included in that interest, he would vote against it
                                all the time. He had always been afraid of this question-that it
                                might come up here with influences outside-that $100,000 of these
                                bonds might some day induce members here to take the canal back
                                again and make the State liable for the whole. We should deal with
                                this thing cautiously. Whilst he did not pretend to know anything
                                about the thing himself, he contended that every member ought to
                                know something about it.

                            Mr. DOBBINS understood that the contract between the State and the
                                bond-holders had to run to the year 1866, and he would carefully
                                avoid any legislation that might result either directly or
                                indirectly in any violation of that contract. Gentlemen should weigh
                                the question before acting on it. It was one of the most dangerous
                                questions that could be presented here, and he trusted that the
                                House would not touch it; that they would let it alone-let it alone
                                till 1866, when the reversionary interest of the State in the Wabash
                                and Erie Canal would pass entirely away. He would not recognize the
                                right of the State to any control of that work by the passage of
                                such a bill as this. He trusted that it would be postponed.

                            Mr. CASON had looked upon the bill with the same distrust, and was
                                guarded against the danger. But he wished to say to the gentleman
                                from Warren, who had spoken of lobby influences in connection with it, that
                                no per-son whatever has been before the Judiciary
                                    Committee on the subject, as intimating any desire for
                                the passage of this bill. The gentleman from Vanderburg and Posey
                                (Mr. Edson) was the only person that had been befere the committee
                                in the matter. To satisfy his own mind about the bill, he had taken
                                it to his room, and after looking over it, and seeing that every
                                party interested mus sign the agreement for release, he undertook to
                                say that there was no possible chance for the State to incur
                                liability by its passage.

                            Mr. FORD concurred, and thought the bill sufficiently guarded.

                            Mr. HOPKINS had introduced this bill. The people of Evansville had to
                                sustain an expense of $3,000 a year in bridging over that part of
                                the canal. It was useless as a canal, and a nuisance to the city.
                                The bill was certainly drawn as carefully as it could be.

                            Mr. DOBBINS suggested a clause requiring the consent of the
                                bond-holders.

                            Mr. HOPKINS. That was included. 

                            Mr. VEATCH was anxious that every member should take pains to examine
                                the bill. It provides that the Common Council of Evansville shall
                                procure the written consent of the Trustees of the Canal and every
                                bond-holder and creditor; and having procured this, they may then
                                proceed to fill up the mud-hole.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. Suppose the city of Evansville secure this consent, wont
                                they have the power to fill up, without the Legislature having
                                anything to do with it? When they gave consent, there was an end of
                                asking anything of the Legislature on the subject. The difficulty
                                was, that it would be almost impossible to get the consent of all
                                parties.

                            Mr. VEATCH. Then it would never be done under this bill.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. Then there was no need of the bill.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. The State had a remainder of interest, and so far she
                                grants consent.

                            Mr. VEATCH. That was it-simply granting the consent of the State. But
                                it was not proposed to be acted upon without care. If any gentleman
                                would read the bill, he would see that, in no possible contingency,
                                could any liability be incurred under it.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, moved indefinite postponement.

                            Mr. FISHER moved to lay it on the table and print.

                            Mr. BRANHAM demanded a division of the question.

                            And thereupon, the House refused to print, and then laid the bill on
                                the table.

                            Mr. VEATCH returned Mr. Brugess's bill [115] to amend the first
                                section of the execution act of February 17, 1852, and the act of
                                March 5, 1859[requiring the execution-defendant to make and deliver
                                to the sheriff a schedule of all his real and personal estate within
                                or without the State, to get the benefit,&c.,]with an amendment,
                                adding a section, That in case of such defendant's absence from the
                                State, his wife may make out the schedule, and verify it by
                                affidavit, &c.; and, so amended, they recommended that the bill
                                pass.

                            The amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned Mr. Erwin's bill [113] to amend section 2 of the
                                Recorders' act of 1852, with an amendment by way of substitute,
                                entitled a bill [187] to authorize Recorders to demand fees in
                                advance. It was passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. VEATCH returned Mr. Packard's bill, [88] To amend section 13 of
                                the Justices' act of June 9, 1852, with a motion to lay it on the
                                table; which was concurred in.

                            Mr. JONES of Wayne, from the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means, returned the resolution for amendment of the
                                laws, relative to the collection of the revenue, with a motion to
                                lay it on the table; which was concurred in.

                            Mr. FORDYCE, from the same Committee, returned the petition from
                                citizens of Adams county, for relief of Wm. Vance, with an adverse
                                report; which was concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE PRINTING.

                            Mr. GIFFORD, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned Mr. Heffren's bill [17] to regulate the State Printing by
                                contract, with a report in writing-setting forth that the Committee
                                being doubtful whether any good could result from any change of the
                                manner of doing the public priniing ; and remembering that the State
                                had once tried and abandoned the plan of letting it out to the
                                lowest bidder, and that other States had tried the same plan, with
                                no good result; and considering that, with regard to the prices
                                paid, the Committee (none of its members being acquainted with the
                                art) had been informed that they yield no more than a fair
                                rernuneratioa to the printer,and that eny cutting down would oppress
                                the craft more than the State Printer,-they thereupon reported a
                                motion that the bill be laid on the table.

                            Mr. GRESHAM said the correct course is to let out the work, and moved
                                that the bill and report be referred to the Select Committee of Five
                                on Public Printing.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, did not see any necessity for delaying
                                action on the report.

                            Mr. BUNDY concurred in this view. No good can come from delay by
                                recommitment. We might as well make it a special order next
                                Wednesday.

                            Mr. McLEAN hoped it would be made a special order. Mr. Heffren, who
                                was interested in this bill, was absent, and courtesy required that
                                we should wait till he returns.

                            Mr. FRASIER said the special committee was the best to investigate
                                the matter.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. There was a select committee on this subject. He
                                came here to carry out retrenchment and reform. 

                            

                            Mr. FISHER said he held the same opinion as the member from Floyd. He
                                supposed that the report and bill would be recommited to the select
                                committee.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, suggested that journeymen in the Journal
                                and Sentinel offices should be brought before the committee to state
                                what the work was worth. He concurred with Mr. Bundy in desiring a
                                test vote of the House, whether they would abolish the office or
                                not.

                            Mr. GRESHAM withdrew his proposition to refer, remembering that the
                                select committee was divided. This bill was well guarded. It was the
                                same that was introduced by Mr. Stevens, and matured in the Senate
                                at the last session. He was willing to make it the special order for
                                Friday.

                            Mr. BUNDY. When it should be made the special order and the time
                                fixed, he hoped to be able to make up his own mind whether it was
                                best to abolish the office or not.

                            Mr. CAMERON thought a new committee on printing ought to be raised-a
                                committee of men who understood the business-and let them
                                investigate and report on the whole matter. There were men in the
                                House besides himself who might claim to know something about the
                                printing business.

                            The bill was made the special order for Friday.

                            On motion by Mr. GRESHAM, it was ordered that the report lie on the
                                table, and that 200 copies of the bill be printed.

                            Mr. FISHER, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned the resolution for amendment of chapter 5, section 137, of
                                the Revised Statutes, so as to dispense with filing the county
                                treasurer's receipts for taxes with the county auditor, and
                                equalizing the compensation of these officers-reporting against the
                                former change, and that further action on the latter was
                                inexpedient. The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. CRAIN, from the same committee, returned Mr. Roberts' bill [89]
                                to amend the 9th section of the general banking act, so as to make
                                the State Auditor's certificate sufficient cause of action and prima facia evidence against the banks,
                                recommending its passage.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            He also returned Mr. Hayes's bill [111] to amend the 6th section of
                                the general banking act of March 13, 1855, with a motion that it lie
                                on the table; which was concurred in.

                            Mr. NEWMAN, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, returned the bill for the election of Sheriff
                                of the Supreme Court, with the opinion that legislation thereon is
                                unnecessary; which was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CLAIMS

                            Mr. DOBBINS, from the Claims Committee, returned
                                the claim of Geo. W. Griffith, for plastering and repairs in the
                                State House-reporting the allowance thereof $575 75-and a motion
                                that it be referred to the Committe on Ways and
                                    Means.

                            It was so ordered.

                            Mr. SLOAN, from a majority of the Committee on
                                    Claims, reported against the claim of the National
                                Guard Band for music served on the occasion of the funeral of Gov.
                                Willard.

                            Mr. BRUCKER and Mr. DOBBINS (the minority) reported the allowance of
                                the claim ($50.)

                            Mr. SLOAN. It appeared that other music bands on the same occasion
                                had been at the same expense, and performed the same service, and
                                yet presented no claim. And it was considered by the majority, that
                                if this claim were allowed chose others would have the same right to
                                come in. The band of New Albany and another band from Minnesota
                                might come in with just as good a claim; for it was a claim only for
                                services in the funeral procession. It would be setting a precedent
                                that might admit claims to an unlimited amount These considerations
                                controlled the action of the majority.

                            The majority report was concurred in, and the report of the minority
                                was laid on the table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMPENSATION OF THE SPEAKER.

                            Mr. SLOAN, from a majority of the Committee on
                                    Claims, returned Mr. Bundy's bill [27,] fixing the
                                Speaker's compensation at $6 per day, recommending indefinite
                                postponement.

                            Mr. DOBBINS submitted a minority report, with an amendment by way of
                                substitute, allowing $5 a day to both the Speaker of the House and
                                the President of the Senate.

                            On motion of Mr. EDSON, the report of the majority of the committee
                                was laid on the table, and the question recurred on concurrence in
                                the minority report.

                            Mr. FORD proposed to amend by adding a clause raising the per diem of
                                members to $5 a day.

                            Mr. PARRETT was opposed to the Speaker receiving any extra
                                compensation, for reasons heretofore set forth in a paper entitled A
                                Report from the Committee on Corporations. He was
                                opposed to allowing the Speaker to monopolze all the honors and
                                emoluments, too. He was opposed to monopolies, and generally to
                                great men.

                            The SPEAKER reminded the gentleman that the occupancy of the Chair
                                was itself a monopoly.

                            Mr. PARRETT. Not by any means, for the Speaker frequently yields it
                                to others.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. It was proper to have a man of adequate qualifications
                                in the Chair, and he was charged with peculiar but arduous duties
                                and responsibilities; and he believed the people were willing to pay
                                him. The position might be honorable, but the honors were certainly
                                dearly bought. He vas willing to add a reasonable compensation.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew moved to strike Out the emergency clause, which was
                                understood to include the present incumbent of the Chair.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. There was no emergency clause.

                            Mr. FISHER referred to the extra duties of the Speaker, as well as
                                the extra expense frequently involved in doing the honors of his
                                position at the numerous festivals of the city, which he supposed
                                the Speaker could testify Dy this time, were exceedingly
                                expensive.

                            The SPEAKER (humorously) decided several amendments out of order.

                            On motion by Mr. STOTSENBERG, the minority report, bill and
                                amendment, were laid on the table-yeas 64, nays 23. Subsequently he
                                moved to reconsider this vote, and to lay the motion on the table.
                                The latter motion was agreed to.

                            Messrs. Moss, Flopkins, Erwin, Frasier, Moorman and Hall had leave of
                                absence till Monday.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB asked ineffectually for leave to submit a resolution to
                                return to two sessions a day.

                            On motion by Mr. CAMERON, his bill [50,] to repeal the act of last
                                session for the return Of juries on the third day of common pleas
                                terras, was taken from the table and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.

                            Mr. ORR, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned the petition of David Penny and
                                others for a reward for catching horse-thieves, reporting
                                legislation thereon inexpedient. The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. SHERMAN returned Mr. Orr's bill [87,] exempting parsonages from
                                taxation, with verbal amendments, recommending passage. The
                                amendments were concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            He also returned the bill to amend the 7th section of the
                                supervisor's act of March 18, 1852, recommending its passage. It was
                                ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. McCLURG returned Mr. Sherman's bill [140] authorizing the
                                President of the Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners to make deeds
                                and satisfy mortgages (for the old State Bank,) recommending
                                passage. It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. HURD returned Mr. Cason's bill [116] requiring patent medicine
                                packages and boxes to be labeled with their ingredients,
                                recommending passage. It was ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JUSTICES OP THE PEACE.

                            Mr. McCLURG returned Mr. Moss's bill [80] to amend sections 8 and 10
                                of the justices' act of June 9,1852, with amendments, [extending the
                                official bonds of justices of the peace to from $2,000 to $6,000,
                                and extending their jurisdiction to $200 and $300 on confession of
                                judgment]

                            The orginal bill, he said, was to enlarge the jurisdiction of
                                justices of the peace to $300 and $400 on confession. The amendments
                                re duce these amounts to $200 and $300. That, was the whole of the
                                bill. It was discussed rather extensively the other day. The members
                                of the committee-(to say nothing of their private opinion-) became
                                satisfied that this enlargement of jurisdiction was a general public
                                demand. He was satisfied that the people of his county wanted it.
                                So. yielding to what they believed to be the wish of their
                                constituents, they agreed to submit this report. They also looked at
                                the question in a practical way. They considered that the Circuit
                                Court sits but twice a year, with an interval of six months; that
                                the Common Pleas Court sits but three times a year, with intervals
                                of four months, and that the justices' jurisdiction was limited to
                                $100. And that they thought, to save time and costs, it would not be
                                too much to give creditors the advantage of getting judgment on sums
                                under $300, by giving three days' notice.

                            Mr. Gresham and Mr. Bundy opposed, and Mr. Holman and Mr. Parrett
                                supported, the bill, until-

                            Mr. McLEAN demand the previous question, and under its force the
                                amendments were adopted.

                            On the question of the engrossment-

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to amend, by a clause to abolish the Common
                                Pleas.

                            Mr. VEATCH proposed to amendment, by a clause referring the duties of
                                the Common Pleas to the Justices' Courts.

                            These were laid on the table.

                            Mr. NEBEKER, as a constitutional lawyer, was glad to see the lawyers
                                here disagree on the propriety of this bill. It would give the
                                people facilities for collecting with less costs.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and, under its operation,
                                the bill was ordered to be engrossed, by yeas 69, nays 18: 

                            Mr. EDSON explaining, that he believed it would work injuriously,
                                (but the people demanded it,) placing the legal fraternity in the
                                same position with the Democratic party, and therefore he thought
                                they had better succumb.

                            The SPEAKER would like to know of the gentleman whether he
                                acknowledged that the Democratic party did now succumb ?
                                [Laughter.]

                            Mr. WOODHULL (explaining,) said he represented farmers, and while he
                                believed the bill would operate injuriously upon them, and promote
                                his own interests, professionally, he would vote No.

                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, (the order of business being suspended for
                                the purpose,) the bill was considered as engrossed and passed the
                                third reading-yeas 69, nays 2-as follows : 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS-Messrs. Anderson, Atkisson,
                                            Boydston, Brett, Bryan, Cameron, Campbell, Collins, of
                                            Adams, Combs, Cooprider, Dashiel, Davis, Dobbins, Edson,
                                            Epperson, Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher, Fleming, Ford,
                                            Fordyce, Fraley, Gifford, Gore, Hall, Harvey, Haworth,
                                            Hayes, Henricks, Holcomb, Hopkins, Horton, Hudson, Hurd,
                                            Jenkinson, Jones, of Wayne, Kendrick, Kitchen, Lods,
                                            Lane, Lightner,
                                            McClurg, McLean, Moss, Nebeker, Newman, Orr, Parrefct,
                                            Pitts, Polk, Prow, Ragan, Randall, Bobbins, Sherman,
                                            Sloan, Smith, of Bartholomew, Smith, of Miami,
                                            Stevenson, Stotsenberg, Trier, Thompson, Turner,
                                            Underwood, Warrum, Wells, Wilson, and Woodruff-69.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Bingham, Branham,
                                            Brucker, Bundy, Burgess, Cason, Collins, of Whitley,
                                            Crain, Erwin, Frasier, Gresham, Howard, Knowlton, Owens,
                                            Packard, Thomas, Veatch, Williams, Woodhull, Woods, and
                                            Mr. Speaker-21. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. DOBBINS (explaining,) said that he did not think it would be for
                                the advantage of the farming community, but was willing to yield to
                                the demand here.

                            Mr. BUNDY proposed to amend the title of the bill, to read: "A bill
                                to encourage litigation and increase the fees of lawyers."

                            Mr. PARRETT moved to lay the amendment on the table, but withdrew for
                                a direct vote thereon, which stood-yeas 6, nays 84.So the bill
                                passed the House of Repoesentatives.

                            Mr. ORR, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Edson's bill [135,] to amend
                                the assessment act of 1852, so as to exempt from taxation the
                                personal property of widows, when it does not exeeed in value $300,
                                recommending its passage.

                            Mr. FRASIER would vote for it as just and expedient, but had not the
                                slightest doubt that our labor would go for nothing; that it would
                                be unconstitutional, and that it would be another machine to make
                                litigations.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. Had it been before the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary?

                            Mr. VEATCH. They had reported in favor of it. He read the
                                constitutional provision for exemptions from taxation.

                            Mr. ORR. It was under the word "charitable" that the bill was
                                recommended. [Laughter.]

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed. 

                        
                        

                        
                            THE STATE PRINTING.

                            Mr. BUNDY asked and obtained leave to submit a resolution, to raise a
                                committee of five on the part of the House, to act as a
                                    Committee on Printing, in conjunction with
                                the Standing Committee of the Senate on this subject; instructed to
                                inquire and report what amount of money was expended last year on
                                account of the public printing, and whether it has been expended in
                                accordance with the provisions of the act of 1859.

                            2. To examine the law of 1859, and report whether any reduction is
                                demanded in the prices; and report a bill making it the duty of the
                                Printer to provide the paper for the State work.

                            3. To report a bill, separating the binding from the printing.

                            Mr. FISHER proposed to amend by striking out that part requiring the
                                committee to inquire into the amount that has been expended for
                                printing, because the Committee on Ways and Means
                                had that before them.

                            The amendment was agreed to.

                            Mr. KNOWLTON moved that the resolution be referred to the
                                    Committee on Public Expenditures. There was a
                                law regulating the price of printing.

                            Mr. BUNDY. The object was to get a committee of printers.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. The General Assembly had reserved the right to
                                abolish the office of Printer, and it was now proposed to vote
                                instructions to sanction the election of Printer, and bind the House
                                against his removal. He opposed action till the House should decide
                                the contract system. 

                            Ma. KNOWLTON'S motion was laid on the table.

                            Mr. GRESHAM moved to strike out that portion requiring the committee
                                to report bill.

                            Mr. BUNDY accepted the modification.

                            The resolution was then adopted.

                            Mr. McClurg and Mr. Gore had leave of absence for to-morrow. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COUNTY AND TOWNSHIP
                                BUSINESS.

                            Mr. FRASIER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Wells' bill, to amend the
                                assessment act so as to allow every tax-payer to deduct the amount
                                of his indebtedness from the amount of his personal taxables, with
                                an adverse report, which was concurred in.

                            Mr. BRETT returned the memorial of the people of Mound township, in
                                Wayne county for a change in the school law.

                            Also, Mr. Holcomb's resolution, for allowing county recorders
                                compensation for entering "satisfaction" on mortgages; reporting the
                                opinion that further legislation is inexpedient-which reports were
                                severally concurred in.

                            He also returned Mr. Wells's bill [57,] to amend sections 2, 3, 4,
                                and 5 of the act of March 2, 1855, for the re-location of county
                                seats, reporting a motion for indefinite postponement.

                            Mr. WELLS opposed the report, showing at length how the present law
                                operates to defeat the will of the majority on county-seat
                                questions.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. BRETT also returned the petition of E. B. Driscoll and others for
                                a change in the road law, reporting further legislation
                                inexpedient.

                            Mr. FORDYCE returned a petition for a change in the regulation of
                                county recorders, with a similar report.

                            Mr. JONES of Wayne returned the petition of T. C. Hammond and others,
                                of Porter county, for the election of county commissioners by
                                districts, with a similar report; which reports were severally
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. TURNER, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned Mr. Williams's bill [11,] for rebuilding and repairing
                                fences along the lines of railroads, recommending its passage.

                            Mr. ATKISSON. It proposed to make the farmers partners with the
                                railroad companies in two fences along their lines. The company
                                could sue the farmer for the value of half  the fence. He was opposed to being
                                forced into partnership with incorporated companies. 

                            Mr. DAVIS. So also the farmer could com-1 the railroad company to
                                make one-half of the fence. It would fence the railroads.

                            On the motion of Mr. Speaker ALLEN, (Mr. McLean in the Chair,) the
                                report and bill were referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. ROBBINS, from the Committee on Mileage
                                reported a resolution, which was adopted, requesting each member to
                                report to said committee the distanees, on the usually travelled
                                routes, from his county-seat to Indianapolis and to Jeffersonville.
                                [It was to guide the committee in fixing the mileage of sheriffs and
                                treasurers.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            CORPORATIONS.

                            Mr. PARRETT, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned Mr. Knowlton's bill [91] to amend and extend the charter of
                                the Eel River Seminary Society, &c., recommending its
                                passage.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            He also returned Mr. Hopkins's bill [15] to amend section 2, of the
                                act of February 12, 1855, concerning voluntary associations
                                recommending passage.

                            Also Mr. Packard's bill [114] to amend the first section of the act
                                of May 20, 1852, regulating manufacturing and mining companies,
                                &c., recommending its passage.

                            Mr. Hurd returned Mr. Henricks' bills [77 and 82] amendatory of the
                                charters of the St. Joseph Iron Company and the South Bend
                                Manufacturing Company, recommending their passage; which reports
                                were severally concurred in, and the bills were ordered to be
                                engrossed

                            The House then adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            SATURDAY, February 9,1861.
                        

                        On motion of Mr. LINE the reading of the Journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with.

                        Mr. MILLER presented a memorial, which was referred to the
                                Judiciary Committee, without reading.

                        Mr. CLAYPOOL presented two claims, which were referred to the
                                Committee on Claims, without reading.

                        Mr. JOHNSON presented a petition from citizens of Clay county, on the
                            present condition of public affairs, praying this Legislature to use all
                            fair and honorable means to restore the Union of the States, and give
                            peace to the country; and stating that the petitioners would be
                            satisfied with a compromise based on the Crittenden proposition;
                            referred to the Committee on Federal Relations, under
                            the rule.

                        Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual demand for a call of the Senate. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                            By Mr. CONNER : Judiciary-returning apetition from
                                citizens of Jefferson county, praying for an amendment to the law,
                                so as to allow justices of the peace to sue either in the township
                                where the debt was contracted or where the defendant may reside, at
                                the option of the plaintiff; and reporting the opinion expressed by
                                a previous report of the committee when returning a bill on this
                                subject; recommending that it lie on the table.

                            By Mr. STUDABAKER: Judiciary-returning his bill
                                117-see p. 163 of the Brevier Legislative
                                Reports-with an amendment recommending passage.

                            By Mr. CRAVEN: Corporations-returning his bill
                                48-see p. 69 of these Reports-recommending passage.

                            By Mr. BEESON: Corporations-returning Senator
                                Ray's bill 59-see p. 88-recommending passage.

                            By Mr. JOHNSON: Corporations-returning Senator
                                O'Brien's bill 76-see page 96 recommending passage.

                            These reports were severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RE-ORGANIZATION OF THE MILITIA.

                            Mr. MURRAY, from the majority of the Committee on Military
                                    Affairs, returned Senator Anthony's bill 28 and
                                Senator Ray's bill 72-see pages 45 and 96-recommending that they be
                                indefinitely postponed.

                            Mr. CRAVEN, from the Committee on Military
                                Affairs, made a minority report, signed by himself and
                                Senator Anthony, dissenting from the views of the majority, that the
                                bill 28 lie on the table. This report suggests that said bill has
                                never had a careful reading, much less an investigation, and
                                recommends that said bill do not lie on the table, but that it be
                                referred to a select committee of five, with instructions to make
                                such amendments as they deem right and adapted to the wants of the
                                State of Indiana.

                            Mr. CONNER. In a short time a bill may be presented that will be
                                generally satisfactory to all parties. With a view to waiting till
                                such bill comes in, I move to lay both bills on the table.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. I desire to ask the Chairman of the Committee
                                    on Military Affairs how many members of that committee
                                were present when they determined upon this report? I want to know
                                whether there was a quorum?

                            Mr. MURRAY. In answer I will state that there was a quorum present.
                                Five is a quorum I believe.

                            Mr. SLACK made another ineffectual demand for a call of the Senate.
                                He did not believe there was a quorum present.

                            Mr. JOHNSON demanded a division of the motion to lay on the
                                table.

                            Mr. CRAVEN. My recollection is the committee agreed to recommend that
                                these bills lie on the table, and not an indefinite
                                postponement.

                            Mr. SHOULDERS. I will state that I made the motion in committee to
                                recommend indefinite postponement, and it was carried.

                            

                            The question being on laying the majority report on the table-

                            The yeas and nays were demanded, and, being ordered, the Secretary
                                proceeded with the call. When the call was concluded-

                            The PRESIDENT. No quorum voting.

                            On Mr. STUDABAKER'S demand, a call of the Senate was had, which
                                revealed the fact that but 32 Senators were present.

                            Pending the call, leave of absence was asked and obtained for
                                Senators March, Odell, Wolfe, Conley and Mellett.

                            The PRESIDENT stated that there was but one absentee who had not been
                                excused.

                            And then, on motion, the Senate adjourned for want of a quorum.

                            The PRESIDENT called the attention of Senators to his announcement of
                                the committee authorized by the resolutions of Mr. Mellett, adopted
                                by the Senate yesterday, and of Mr. Cameron, adopted by the House
                                Thursday, viz.: Senators Claypool, Anthony, Wagner and Hamilton.
                            
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            SATURDAY, February 9,1861.
                        

                        The SPEAKER announced the members, on the part of the House of
                            Representatives, of the Joint Committee on
                                Apportionment, namely :

                        First District, Mr. Brett; Seventh, Mr. McLean ; Eleventh, Mr. Hayes ;
                            Fourth, Mr. Grover; Sixth, Mr. Burgess; Third, Mr. Bran-ham; Ninth, Mr.
                            Cameron, Chairman.

                        The SPEAKER also announced the members, on the part of the House, of the
                                Joint Committee on Printing, under the resolution
                            of Mr. Randall, namely:

                        Messrs. Randall, Haworth, Cameron, McClurg, and Collins of Adams.

                        Messrs. Brett, Collins of Whitley, Jones of Wayne, Ford and Combs, had
                            leave of absence for this day.

                        Mr. Crain presented the petition of sundry citizens of Vermillion county
                            for a new common pleas district composed of the counties of Vermillion,
                            Parke and Putnam; it was referred to the select committee on that
                            subject. 

                        Mr. Branham and Mr. Bundy proposed an order, that when the House adjourn
                            to-day, it shall be till Tuesday, 9 o'clock, but it was objected to. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned Mr. Packard's bill [109,] to regulate the business
                                of insurance companies under charters granted by the State of
                                Indiana, &c., reporting the opinion that said bill is
                                unconstitutional. The object is a good one-intended to protect the
                                people from bogus insurance companies. The bill requires a deposit
                                of stock with the Auditor of State, to protect the policy-holder.
                                The committee deem it incompetent to impose conditions on
                                corporations not recognized in their charters; they therefore report
                                a motion lay the bill on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. VEATCH returned Mr. Crain's bill [72,] for the recovery of
                                personal property providing for an execution against the body
                                &c., recommending its passage.

                            He also returned Mr. Bundy's bill [129] to amend section 178 of the
                                act for the settlement of decedents' estates, to prescribe the
                                rights and duties of officers, &c., recommending its passage.
                                These several bills were to be engrossed.

                            Mr. CASON returned Mr. Jenkinson's bill [139,] to enlarge the legal
                                capacity of married women where husbands are insane, to enable them
                                to contract as though they were unmarried, with amendments
                                (clerical,) recommending passage. The amendments were adopted and
                                the bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. WOODHULL returned Mr. Bundy'sbill [148,] to amend section 9 of
                                the act regulating the fees of officers, and repealing, &c.,
                                with an amendment adding to the first section: "for each tract or
                                parcel of land sold for taxes, 10 cents; for redeeming each county
                                order, 10 cents."

                            The amendments were concurred in.

                            Mr. FISHER considered this bill was proceeding too fast.

                            Mr. VEATCH. As the law is, county treasurers were allowed two and a
                                half per cent, for receiving and paying out moneys, except the
                                school fund. The law was liable to misconstruction-some holding that
                                there should not be anything allowed for redeeming county orders,
                                and others, by a very liberal construction, were allowed two and a
                                half per cent, for redeeming them. And, as there is no provision for
                                allowance for selling land for taxes, it was thought, best to fix it
                                at 10 cents for each tract, and 10 cents for each county order.

                            Mr. FISHER was aware of these different constructions of the law with
                                regard to compensation for paying out the county revenue. He
                                withdrew his objection to the engrossment.

                            Mr. PARRETT moved to lay the bill on the table. Pass this, and small
                                county orders would be multiplied for the sake of the 10 cents. The
                                treasurer was now the best paid officer in the county. He gets twice
                                as much the auditor, who has nearly as much to do. 

                            Mr. VEATCH. The Auditor is allowed five cents for using each county
                                order, and there has never been any complaint that, on account of
                                this small fee the number of county orders has been multiplied.

                            Mr. PARRETT. Still the County Auditor was much the poorest paid
                                officer, unless in cases where some scheme is concocted for stealing
                                the public funds between the Auditor and Treasurer.

                            Mr STOTSENBERG remonstrated against debate under the pending
                                motion.

                            The bill was laid on the table.

                        
                        

                        

                        
                            ROADS

                             Mr. WELLS returned the resolution for re-tiring the owners of land
                                with dead timber on it near railroad lines and highways, to cut it
                                down, reporting a motion to lay it on the table.

                            Also, the resolution for requiring Supervisors (to clear out the
                                channels of water courses in their districts, reporting legislation
                                inexpedient ; which reports were concurred in. 

                            He also returned Mr. Williams' bill [103] for the erection and repair
                                of bridges across streams of water forming the line between
                                counties. &c., recommending its passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB returned the resolution for regulating tolls on bridges,
                                graveled, macadamized and plank roads, so as to reduce the rates on
                                sheep, with a motion to lay it on the table.

                            Mr. NEBEKER thought he would be able to satisfy the House that the
                                rates ought to be reduced on stock ; and on his motion it was
                                referred to a Select Committee, which the Speaker makes to consist
                                of Messrs. Nebeker, Jones of Wayne, and Fisher.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB also returned Mr. Atkisson's bill [96] to repeal sections
                                2, 3, 4 and 5 of the act of March 3, '59, regulating the working of
                                highways on county lines, and supplemental thereto, with an
                                amendment, adding a clause, viz : " And all roads located on county
                                lines now worked, shall be worked in like manner." The amendment was
                                adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            VERMILLION COMMON PLEAS.

                            Mr. CRAIN from the Select Committee thereon, returned Mr. Jones of
                                Vermillion's bill, [122] to organize a Common Pleas District for
                                Vermillion, Parke and Putnam, recommending its passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SLACK WATER NAVIGATION.

                            Mr. WELLS, from the Select Committee thereon, returned the petition
                                from sundry citizens of Pike county with reference to slack water
                                navigation, and reported a bill, [188] To provide for the
                                organization of companies to build dams across any stream ot water,
                                so as to afford slack water navigation ; which was passed to the
                                second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SWAMP LAND FRAUDS.

                            Mr. WOODS submitted a concurrent resolution, for a joint committee on
                                swamp lands, to confer together with reference to the adoption of
                                some plan for examination into swamp lands frauds, and the validity
                                of swamp land certificates, and report as soon as possible.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend by adding the words "during the
                                session."

                            Mr. WOODS accepted, and so the resolution was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXCHANGE WITH WISCONSIN

                            Mr. BUNDY submitted concurrent resolution, which was adopted,
                                authorizing the State Librarian to transmit to the Governor of
                                Wisconsin any State documents, journals and statutes of which there
                                may be a surplus in the Library, in exchange for documents of that
                                State.

                            A message from the Senate announced bills, and the concurrent
                                resolution for a Committee on Apportionment. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS

                            Were introduced and passed to the second reading, viz :

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG: [189] Authorizing the arresting and securing of
                                fugitives from justice.

                            Mr. Branham : [190] To provide for the expenses of the present
                                Legislature.

                            Mr. Grover: [191] To amend sections 176 and 190 of the practice
                                act.

                            Mr. Jenkinson : [192] To provide for the organization of circuit
                                courts, fixing the salaries of the judges thereof, the number of
                                terms; and providing for the transfer of the probate business of the
                                common pleas to the circuit court; and repealing, &c.

                            Mr. Anderson : [193] To provide for the location, vacation and change
                                of highways ; for the damages in such location, change and vacation;
                                and to repeal sections 15 to 26 of the act of January 17, 1852.

                            Mr. Kendrick: [194] To provide for the sale of certain property in
                                the city of Indianapolis belonging to the State of Indiana ; and
                                with the proceeds thereof to purchase other grounds within said
                                city, and erect thereon anew house for the Governor; and for the
                                regulation thereof-[Geo. W. Miller, W. O. Thompson, M. D. Williams,
                                and Simon Yandis, the Board of Control.]

                            Mr. Lane: [195] To amend section 34, chapter 83, of the Revised
                                Statutes of 1852 to provide for the incorporation of railroad
                                companies, approved May 11, 1852.

                            Mr. Burgess: [196] Giving the clerks of the several circuit courts of
                                the State, probate jurisdiction, defining their powers and duties,
                                fixing their compensation, prohibiting their deputies from
                                practicing law, and repealing, &c.

                            Mr. Stotsenburg: [197] To amend the 4th section of the act of March
                                5, 1852. declaratory of the law regulating marriages, &c., so as
                                to give recorders power to issue marriage licenses.

                            Mr. Veatch: [198 To provide for the erection of an Asylum for
                                Inebriates.

                            Mr. Thompson: [199] To amend the act of February 7, 1855, authorizing
                                county agricultural societies to'hold real estate; and to authorize
                                such societies to issue capital stock.

                            Mr. Fordyce: [200] To amend the 3d section of the act containing some
                                general provisions respecting the sinking fund, its management and
                                control; and to legalize and give validity to certain bonds therein
                                named and to authorize debtors of the Branches of the State  Bank of Indiana to secure to
                                the sinking fund a portion of their indebtedness, approved March 5,
                                1859, so as to authorize a partial release of lands mortgaged
                                pursuant to the provisions of said act, and so as to authorize
                                substitutions.

                            Mr. Parrett: [201] To attach the county of Benton to the tenth
                                circuit, and to create the seventeenth judicial circuit; to provide
                                for the election of judge, &c.

                            Mr. Knowlton : [202] To amend section 650 of article 36 of the
                                practice act-[Mechanic shall file notice of intention to hold a lien
                                within six months after the work.]

                            Mr. Hurd: [203] To provide for the registration of births, marriages
                                and deaths; for the appointment of registers, and providing for the
                                publication of such register; and a penalty.

                            Mr. Cooprider: [204] For the protection of swamp land ditches.

                            Mr. Williams: [205] To encourage the construction of free turnpikes,
                                and to provide therefor.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, submitted an order, which was adopted, that no
                                leave of absence shall be longer than for one day, unless it be for
                                a limited time. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PERSONAL.

                            Mr. WOODHULL submitted a paper, in behalf of Mr. Packard and Mr.
                                Feagler, and signed by them respectively, to the following effect: u
                                Believing, as we do, that the article which led to words between us
                                in disregard of the dignity and decorum of the House on the morning
                                of the 2d instant, which we very much regret, arose entirely from a
                                misunderstanding; we therefore mutually consent to an amicable
                                adjustment of the same; and all offensive language on the part of
                                either of us, is hereby withdrawn;" and he asked that it be spread
                                upon the journal.

                            It was so ordered by consent.

                            The House then (at 11 o'clock) adjourned till Monday at 2 o'clock
                                p.m. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    

                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            MONDAY, February 11,1861. 
                        

                        The Senate was not in session before noon. 

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, further proceedings in the call pending at
                                the last adjournment, were dispensed with.

                            Mr. MILLER presented a communication from Mr. Fletcher; the
                                Superintendent of Public Instruction elect, stating as a reason why
                                he had not entered upon his duties, that the present incumbent
                                refuses to give up the office till the 14th.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the communication was referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee, with instructions to
                                inquire into and report upon the matter as soon as may be.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON presented a petition from citizens of Bloomington
                                against the licensing of liquor sellers, but if such a be persisted
                                in, praying that the dealers may be made responsible for any damage
                                that be sustained thereby. Referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance. 


                            
                                REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                                Mr. RAY. from the Judiciary Committee returned
                                    Senator Carnahan's bill [153] for the relief of Catharine P.
                                    Whittlesly,recommending passage.

                                Mr. WOLFE, from the Judiciary Committee
                                    returned Senator Landers' bill [46]-see page 69 of these
                                    Reports-with amendments, recommending passage ; also, returning
                                    his bill [57]-see page 69-recommending that the amendment
                                    limiting the poll tax for county purposes to 50 cents on the
                                    $100, be laid on the table.

                                [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of a
                                    resolution authorizing the exchange of state papers with the
                                    State of Wisconsin; the Committee on the part of the House on
                                    apportionment; and the passage of a resolution making the swamp
                                    land Standing Committee of each House a Committee of Conference
                                    to determine the best plan to be adopted for investigation cf
                                    swamp land frauds &c.]

                                Mr. WOLFE, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                        Courts, returned a resolution and reported in
                                    accordance therewith a bill [S. 159] declaring that the several
                                    common pleas districts shall be known and designated by
                                    respective numbers, and providing what counties shall compose
                                    such districts by appropriate numbers, which was passed the 1st
                                    reading.

                                Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                    returned his bill [133] licensing dogs, &c., recommending
                                    passage.

                                These reports were severally concurred in. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE STATE UNIVERSITY.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON introduced a bill [S. 160] providing for the
                                    opening of a normal department in the State University, making
                                    an appropriation therefor &c., which was passed the first
                                    reading. 
                            
                            

                            
                                RE-ORGANIZATION OF THE MILITIA.

                                The PRESIDENT announced the order to be the consideration of the
                                    unfinished business of yesterday being the motion to lay on the
                                    table the majority report from the Military
                                        Committee.

                                The motion was agreed to by yeas 18, nays 13.

                                The question recurring on laying the minority report on the
                                    table, that motion was rejected by yeas 16, nays 19.

                                The question recurring on concurring in the report-

                                Mr. CARNAHAN. I will just state that I am a member of that
                                    Committee, and we have had half a dozen different meetings, at
                                    least, and spent all the evening in the investigation of this
                                    bill, [S. 28] but that the bill of the gentleman from Shelby [S. 72] has not
                                    had the examination the other bill has.

                                Mr. MURRAY substantiated these facts.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL. I think it right and proper that this bill should
                                    be referred to a Select Committee, for I am satisfied the
                                        Military Committee will never agree upon
                                    a bill. I am satisfied it is the will of this Senate to pass a
                                    proper military bill, and it is likely that neither of these
                                    bills will satisfy the Senate. The Senate is not prepared to
                                    say, under the present emergency, that we do not want a military
                                    system, but is opposed to the present system. The bill before
                                    the Senate [S. 28] is too ponderous, too expensive ; there is
                                    too much machinery about it.

                                Mr. WAGNER. It looks discourteous to dispose of this bill in the
                                    absence of the Senator [Mr. Anthony] who introduced it.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON. I am opposed to referring this matter to a Select
                                    Committee, and taking it out of the hands of the regular
                                    Committee. I think the Standing Committee should report a bill
                                    on this subject, if no one else does.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB. The idea of referring these bills back to the same
                                    Committee is an idle waste of time. If we have a military bill
                                    at all, we must have a Special Committee, and therefore, I am in
                                    favor of this minority report.

                                Mr. SHOULDERS. The only objection to this bill in Committee that
                                    I remember was, that it would create a high tax upon the people.
                                    I think the gentleman from Madison counted up what the tax would
                                    be, and that he stated it at $235,000, to the best of his
                                    recollection.

                                On motion by Mr. RAY, the report was concurred in, and both bills
                                    were included in the order to refer. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE PRESIDENT ELECT.

                                Mr. TURNER offered a resolution, which was adopted, inviting
                                    joint committees of the Legislature of Ohio and the City Council
                                    of Columbus to visit the Senate Chamber; and appointing a
                                    committee of three to inform them of the adoption of the
                                    resolution.

                                The PRESIDENT made the committee to consist of Senators Turner,
                                    Wagner and Ray.

                                Subsequently Mr. WAGNER appeared at the head of the Lincoln
                                    escort committee from Ohio, and said: Mr. President, I have the
                                    honor to introduce to you, and through you to the Senate, the
                                    committee of reception of the Ohio Legislature and of the City
                                    Council of Columbus, and a portion of the staff of the Governor
                                    of Ohio. 
                            
                            

                            
                                PERSONAL EFFECTS OF THE LATE DR. OWEN.

                                Mr. CARNAHAN offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing
                                    the Committee on Agriculture to inquire into
                                    the expediency of purchasing the geological and mineralogical
                                    cabinet and philosophical apparatus of the late David Dale Owen.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                THE STATE BORROWING MONEY.

                                On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the bill [H. R. 104] was taken
                                    up.

                                Mr. MURRAY opposed its passage.

                                On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the bill was made the special order for
                                    to-morrow morning, 10 o'clock. 
                            
                            

                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                                The following Senate bills were read the second time, and
                                    disposed of as recited:

                                Messrs. Johnson's 81, and Wagner's 53 to the Finance
                                        Committee.

                                Mr. Johnson's 83 was ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. Wagner's 84 to the Committee on County and Township
                                        Business.

                                Mr. O'Brien's 85 to the Committee on
                                        Corporations.

                                Mr. Shield's 87 to the Committee on Swamp
                                        Lands.

                                Messrs. Miller's 88 and 90, Wilson's 92, and Slack's 104 to the
                                        Judiciary Committee.

                                Messrs. O'Brien's 91, and Cobb's 93 to the Committee on
                                        Organization of Courts.

                                Mr. O'Brien's 94 to the Committee on
                                    Education.

                                And then the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY, February 11,1861.
                        

                        
                            RESOLNTIONS.

                            The SPEAKER announced that it was desired by many members that no
                                further documents be laid on their tables, till provision is made
                                for the payment of postage, of which the Doorkeeper was directed to
                                take notice. The Speaker then announced the order of resolutions,
                                and resolutions and orders were submitted and adopted to the
                                following effect:

                            Mr. McClurg: That the Doorkeeper procure $3 worth of postage stamps
                                for each member of the House.

                            Mr. Brucker: That the use of the Hall be granted to the Hon. R. D.
                                Owen next Wednesday night, for the purposes of a public lecture on
                                the Perils of the present National Crisis.

                            Mr. Ford: That the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges inquire into the expediency of requiring
                                that all persons living out of the State and peddling jewelry in the
                                State, shall pay a license therefor.

                            Mr. Edson: That the Committee on the Judiciary
                                inquire into the expediency of providing by proper enactments for
                                the appointment of a commission of not less than three nor more than
                                five of the most distinguished jurists of the State to thoroughly
                                revise the statutes of 1852, and the various acts passed since said
                                revision; and that they report, &c.

                            Mr. Campbell: That the Committee on Apportionment
                                inquire into the expediency of reducing the number of Senators to
                                15, and of the Representatives to 30.

                            Mr. Frasier proposed 3 Representatives and  2 Senators; which was rejected; and
                                then the resolution was rejected.

                            Mr. Black: That the Committee on Ways and Means
                                inquire into the expediency of reporting a bill giving to plank,
                                gravel and turnpike road companies the same right to enter upon
                                lands and appropriate materials for the construction and repairs of
                                their roads, as are no allowed to railroad companies.

                            Mr. Black: That the Committee on Ways and Means
                                report a bill providing for a more rapid but gradual liquidation of
                                the public debt. It was rejected.

                            Mr. Brett: That the Judiciary Committee inquire
                                into the expediency of repealing the 10th section of the act
                                creating Courts of Conciliation; also, of repealing the act of 1859,
                                requiring juries to appear on the 3d day of the term in the Court of
                                Common Pleas.

                            Mr. Holcomb presented a resolution of a Union meeting in Gibson
                                county. He said they were the result of the deliberations of the
                                adjourned meeting, whose proceedings were presented here by Mr.
                                Speaker Alen. They were read and referred to the Committee
                                    of Thirteen.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a letter from Miles J. Fletcher,
                                the incoming Superintendent of Public Instruction, addressed to Mr.
                                Grover, chairman of the Committee on Education,
                                setting forth the reason why he does not enter upon the duties of
                                his office on the second Monday in February, to wit: Mr. Rugg
                                refused to give up the papers and possession of the office until the
                                14th inst.-the expiration of his term of two years.

                            Mr. JENKINSON supposed it was only to Bet forth the reasons why Mr.
                                Fletcher was not in office.

                            On motion by Mr. FRASIER, for the settlement of legal questions. The
                                paper was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. Gore: That the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges inquire into the expediency of providing by
                                law a suitable building for the reformation of inebriates. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WABASH AND ERIE CANAL.

                            Mr. BRETT. That the Speaker appoint a select committee of five, with
                                power to send for persons and papers, and inquire: 1. Into the
                                condition of the land office of the trustees of the Wabash and Erie
                                canal at Terre Haute. 2. The quantity and price of land sold by them
                                during the last two years and the disposition of their proceeds. 3.
                                Whether they have transferred or otherwise encumbered any canal
                                lands, and if so how much, with intent to hinder, delay, or defraud
                                any of their creditors who are citizens of this Slate. 4. Whether
                                the injunction granted by the circuit court of the United States was
                                not fraudulently obtained, and with the connivence and consent of
                                said trustees, or some of them, with leave to report any time.

                            Mr. FISHER could not consent to vote for that resolution without
                                first knowing that something was wrong. If the gentleman could
                                assure the House that there was something requring investigation, he
                                ready to vote for it.

                            Mr. BRETT. Any person acquainted with the present condition and
                                management of the canal must admit the necessity of investigation.
                                For the last two years, the canal had been abandoned by the
                                bondholders ; and they had obtained an injunction from the United
                                States District Court against the trustees stop the payment of
                                certain claims against the canal out, of the proceeds of the canal
                                lands pledged for that purpose . It was never the intention of the
                                bondhold to keep the canal up. They completed it to Evansville,
                                merely to comply with the terms of their contract with the State.
                                They intended from the first to abandon it as soon as they could do
                                it with a fair share with a view of ultimately getting back from the
                                State the other half of the original debt. The southern end of the
                                canal had never been in a condition fit to be called a canal.
                                Whenever the people wanted to ship their produce on it, they never
                                could rely upon its management. It had no proper attention. They
                                enjoined the lands with a view of turning them to their own account,
                                instead of applying them and the tolls as the Butler bill required.
                                If he had not feared that there had been some connivance against the
                                interests in his region, he would not have introduced the
                                resolution. He acknowledged candidly that he himself was personally
                                and deeply interested in the case. It was not intended that the
                                investigation should be an expensive one. But few witnesses were to
                                be examined, and he believed they would bring out matter of
                                importance to the State. He had as much regard for economy as any,
                                but as ventilation was the order of the day, it was certainly needed
                                here. The trustees had been complaining that the State had not been
                                acting in good faith toward the bondholders. Now let us see whether
                                the bondholders have been acting in good faith toward us. The
                                management of the office at Terre Haute had cost, nearly $17,000 at
                                the end of the year 1859, whilst the canal had been abandoned to
                                those who chose to keep it up out of their own pockets. He was
                                satisfied that there had been connivance and wrong in regard to this
                                injunction, which ought to come to light.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. In his county, this injunction was having the effect of
                                hindering the entry of the lands. Parties were fearful about sending
                                their money to Terre Haute on account of it. Several applications
                                had been made to him, in which purchasers had refused to enter, from
                                the fact that this injunction has hung up the lands. The object of
                                the resolution he thought was a proper one, and due to the people of
                                the southern part of the State. 

                            Mr. NEBEKER. The gentleman was certainly wrong, about its not being
                                the intention  of the
                                bondholders from the first to comply their contract ; for they had
                                to advance money to complete the canal. There might be other things
                                wrong; and he would move to refer the resolution to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary, that they may
                                examine and see if the provisions of the Butler bill have been
                                violated.

                            Mr. FISHER referred to the floods of 1858, high required expensive
                                repairs, and required the money raised from the sales of the lands.
                                These lands, as he understood, were pledged for the redemption of
                                the notes which the subscribers held for the completion of the
                                canal-pledged to refund the money thus advanced. But the money
                                received the lands was taken to repair bridges of Terre Haute. The
                                individuals who these funds had now enjoined them from using the
                                proceeds of the lands for any other purpose. He thought this
                                investigation would bring nothing out more than what is contained in
                                the report of the trustees. The whole case was presented there.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN [Mr. Mclean in the Chair.] The motion to refer had
                                no second. His constituents were interested in this matter. They had
                                wanted to ascertain whether or not the report made by the trustees
                                is true. If true, there was an end of it. But strong suspicions had
                                arisen in the minds of the people in the Southern part of the State,
                                that there exists a connivance amongst the trustees and others
                                against the interests of those along the line of the canal, which
                                they desire to inquire into for their protection. The trustees of
                                the canal have entered into contracts with parties to furnish water
                                power, and thereupon, relying upon these contracts, expensive mills
                                have been erected. The failure to furnish water power have rendered
                                these mills worthless: and when these parties have called on the
                                trustees for damages, they are met with the answer, that the trust
                                funds are exhausted, and there is nothing to pay their damages. An
                                injunction had been not only granted, but made perpetual by the
                                United District Court of this State, enjoining creditors from their
                                pay by execution, and giving the whole of the trust funds for the
                                re-payment of the money advanced, of which the gentleman from Wabash
                                had spoken. This investigation proposes to cover the whole matter,
                                and ascertain what disposition has been made of the trust funds, and
                                whether the decree has been obtained by fraud and collusion. In this
                                view of the case, he considered it highly proper and important that
                                the investigation should be had. It was certainly wrong that our
                                citizens should be made to suffer, whilst the trustees or the
                                bondholders appropriate the trust funds to themselves. If these
                                funds have been exhausted, then they had no recourse. But might be
                                proven that the trust funds are not exhausted; and if they are
                                fraudulently setting them apart for their own purposes, then he
                                apprehended our citizens might enforce their rights. Under this
                                view, he hoped the resolution would be adopted.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. If, as a corporate body, they had violated their
                                contract, it occurred to him that the State has nothing to do with
                                it. What right had the State to step in now and say that their lands
                                shall be sold, and the proceeds applied in a certain way ? If the
                                State's relation to this matter made the case different from that of
                                any other corporation, he was unable to see it. It was true, that,
                                on account of the State's reversionary interest, there might be hope
                                on their part that she would sometime take back the canal.

                            Mr. WOODHULL saw no necessity for the reference; and the House
                                rejected the motion of Mr. Nebeker.

                            The resolution was adopted. 

                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLTIONS.

                            Mr. Haworth: That the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business be requested to inquire and report on the
                                policy of changing the time of electing township assessors from the
                                October to the April election.

                            Mr. Burgess: That the Committee on Education
                                inquire into the expediency of so amending the school law as to give
                                to school meetings the power to fill all vacancies in the office of
                                school director. 

                            Mr. Sloan: That the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business inquire into the expediency of abolishing the
                                office of township assessor and requiring his duties to be performed
                                by the township trustees; of requiring that the enumeration of the
                                children attending common school shall be made at the same time that
                                property is listed for taxation.

                            Mr. Holcomb presented the resolutions of another Union meeting in
                                Gibson county; which was referred without reading.

                            Mr. Owens: That the Committee on the Organization of Courts inquire
                                into the propriety of so amending the law as to require non resident
                                parties bringing suit in this State, to pay a docket fee of five
                                dollars, to be applied toward supporting the expense of the court of
                                Justice ; and report, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS

                            Were now introduced and passed to the second reading of the following
                                titles:

                            Mr. Robert: [206] Supplemental to article 9, section 156 of part
                                second of the Revised Code ; providing for attachment in certain
                                cases, providing compensation for the judges, and prescribing the
                                duties of clerks and sheriffs therein. 

                            Mr. Grover: [207] To amend section 156 of the practice act.

                            Mr. Knowlton: [208] To amend section 6 of May 11, 1852, providing for
                                the incorporation of railroad companies.

                            Mr. Nebeker: [209] To amend section 9 of the general banking act of
                                March 13, 1855 so as to make disposition of certain moneys  arising from bank deposits to
                                secure their circulation and providing for the redemption of their
                                notes.

                            Mr. Campbell: [210] To abolish the death penalties, and to provide
                                for imprisonment for life where, under existing laws death may be
                                inflicted as a punishment for crime.

                            Mr. Gifford: [211] To authorize the superintendent or other person
                                having charge of any county asylum to discharge persons and
                                apprentice minors.

                            Mr. Woods: [212] To amend the third article, sections 128 and 136 and
                                repeal sections 138 and 140 of the assessment act of June 21,
                                1852.

                            Mr. Henricks: [213] Defining certain felonies and prescribing
                                punishment therefor-[breach of money trusts authorized by law, and
                                of official money trusts-6 months to 5 3 years in the
                                Penitentiary.]

                            Mr. Hurd: [214] Regulating marriage, prescribing who may issue
                                marriage license and the form thereof, to whom marriage license may
                                be issued, &c.

                            Mr. Gifford: [215] To regulate the practice of medicine and
                                surgery.

                            Mr. Bingham: [216] To amend the 7th sec. of the act of 1852,
                                providing for the election of the reporter of the Supreme Court,
                                &c.

                            Mr. Atkisson's bill [66] to amend sec. 474 of the practice act, being
                                the unfinished business, was laid on the table.

                            The SPEAKER announced the following select committee, under Mr.
                                Brett's resolution for investigation of the Wabash and Erie Canal
                                office, viz :

                            Messrs. Brett, McLean, Grover, Bingham, and Holcomb.

                            The bill of the Senate [S. 11] to amend sec. 140 of the assessment
                                act of 1852, coming up on the second reading, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            On motion by Mr. FISHER, (the order of business being dispensed with
                                for the purpose,) the House took up the consideration of bills from
                                the Senate, and the bills numbered respectively, 5, 7, 12, 19, 24
                                and 29, were read and passed to the second reading.

                            The House then adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 12,1861.
                        

                        Mr. WAGNER took the chair, and called the Senate to order.

                        On motion by Mr. LINE, the reading of the journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with.

                        The PRESIDENT pro tem., laid before the Senate a
                            communication from H. C. Lord, Esq., President of the Indianapolis and
                            Cincinnati Railroad, inviting members to a free ride between the two
                            cities this day.

                        Mr. ANTHONY. From this invitation, I am clearly satisfied whether we
                            accept the invitation or not, we will not have a quorum tomorrow, and
                            for that reason I offer the following resolution:

                        
                            
                                
                                    Resolved, That when the Senate adjourns it,
                                        it will adjourn to Thursday morning next, at 9 o'clock. 
                                
                                
                            
                        

                        Which was rejected by yeas 5, nays 31

                        Mr. LINE presented a petition from a turn-pike road, asking exemption
                            from an onerous assessment, which was referred to a Select Committee of
                            five without reading.

                        [Leave of absence was obtained for Senator Wolfe till Monday, and
                            Senators Studabaker and Craven.]

                        Mr. WILSON presented a petition from citizens of Sullivan county, asking
                            the repeal of the new county acts of '57 and '59; which referred to the
                            Select Committee thereon. 

                        Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                            returned Mr. Murray's bill [134] licensing dogs, recommending that it
                            lie on the table; which report was concurred in. 

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed to the
                                second reading :

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: [161] To amend section 12 of an act to provide for
                                the settlement of decedent estates, approved June 17, 1855.

                            By Mr. DEHART: [162] To provide for the execution
                                of conveyance by commissioners in case of deceased venders of real
                                estate

                            By Mr. DEHART. [163] To amend'section 467 of the
                                Practice Act.

                            By Mr. CARNAHAN: [164] To authorize administrators and executors to
                                administer oaths to assessors and clerks who may be employed in the
                                settlement of decedent estates.

                            By Mr. BERRY : [165] To amend section 26 of an act authorizing the
                                construction of plank macadmized and gravel roads, approved May 12,
                                1852.

                            [Senator Hamilton's bill [95] was read the second time, and referred
                                to the Judiciary Committee.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE PRESIDENT ELECT.

                            Mr. CONNER offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a Committee of Five on
                                            the part of the Senate be appointed to accompany his
                                            excellency, Abraham Lincoln, President elect of the
                                            United States, as far as Ohio on his tour to Washington.
                                        
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             After debate thereon by Senators Conner Slack, Newcomb, Hamilton,
                                Tarkington, Line, Robinson, Murray and Williams-

                            The resulution was adopted by yeas 24, nays 17.

                            The PRESIDENT pro tem, made the Committee to
                                consist of Senators Claypool, Ray, Bearss, Jones and Miller-Mr.J
                                Conner declining to serve, as he was on the Committee of
                                    Reception.

                            [The loan bill [H. R. 104] being the special order, was postponed
                                until 10 o'clock to-morrow.]

                            [Mr. MILLER made an ineffectual motion for a recess until noon, in
                                order to enable Senators to see the President elect depart from the
                                city.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE LATE STATE TREASURER'S ACCOUNTS.

                            Mr. ROBINSON offered a resolution, which was adopted; directing the
                                Auditor of State to  report
                                whether the late Treasurer of State accounted to the State Auditor
                                and paid into the Treasury any monies received by him for interest
                                on money of the State, as required by section 3 of an act relative
                                to the salaries of public officers, &c., approved March 5,1859;
                                if so, what sum he so accounted for and carried to the credit of the
                                State. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            Senator Miller's bill [96] March's [98] and the Committee on
                                    Agriculture's, [99] were read the second time, and
                                ordered engrossed for the third reading.

                            Senator Conner's [101] was read the second time, and referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 12, 1861.
                        

                         On the motion of Mr. WOODHULL, (Mr. Speaker Allen being absent,) Mr.
                            Bundy was called to the Chair: 

                        
                            HONORS TO THE PRESIDENT ELECT.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a letter from H. C. Lord, President
                                of the Indianapolis and Cincinnati Railroad Co., extending an
                                invitation to members to a free ride over said road to Cincinnati
                                this day, and return to-morrow.

                            Mr. FRASIER moved that the invitation be accepted.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB would like to know what legitimate connection this ride
                                could have with the legislation of the State of Indiana.

                            Mr. McLEAN proposed a substitute for Mr. Frasier's motion,
                                respectfully declining the invitation.

                            Mr. PARRETT favored the substitute, not without regrets. But the
                                session was so far spent, and we have so much to do, that it seemed
                                to him, we hardly have the right as members of the Legislature to
                                make this trip. He would remark that, while he felt like supporting
                                the substitute, at the same time he believed he had moral courage
                                enough to do almost anything he could both fight and die for the
                                President elect, and the principles he represents-(consent)-yet he
                                could not consent to the resolution offered by the gentleman from
                                Kosciusko.

                            Mr. WOODHULL appreciated fthe feeling which had prompted the Railroad
                                Company to tender this ride, but he considered that we came here for
                                a different purpose from that of mere personal gratification. We
                                came here to make laws; the session was already more than half gone,
                                and he believed it would be a dereliction of duty on his part to
                                accept the invitation.

                            Mr. ROBERTS. The object was to pay further respect to the President
                                elect. He could not object to the partizan friends of Mr. Lincoln
                                paying all the respect he deserves, and that belongs to his
                                position; but he Bought the measure of respect extended to him by
                                the body had been sufficient-that the President could not demand
                                more. He considered it due to the people of the State to decline
                                this invitation.

                            Mr. FRASIER had not any disposition to fight or die for anybody. But
                                taking a trip to Cincinnati this afternoon and returning tomorrow
                                morning, was a very different thing. He was satisfied we could
                                accomplish about as much by going as by staying ; and if any
                                gentlemen have conscientious scruples, he can stay here and fix up
                                the business in committees.

                            Mr. DOBBINS, for one, was in rather a bad condition in the pocket, to
                                accept this cordial offer of the railroad. He also considered it
                                unnecessary to honor the President elect any further in this
                                way.

                            Mr. ORR hoped the substitute for the motion would be adopted under
                                the circumstances. 

                            The substitute was adopted, and the invitation declined. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE CRITTENDEN RESOLUTIONS.

                            Mr. DOBBINS presented the petition of A. I. Holmes and others,
                                citizens of Fulton county, for the Legislature to instruct request
                                our Senators and Representatives in Congress to use their influence
                                and vote for the passage of the resolution known as the Crittenden
                                Compromise; which was referred to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ELECTIONS.

                            Mr. RAGAN, from the Committee on Elections,
                                returned Mr. Dobbins's bill [110] to amend the 4th sec ion of the
                                act in relation to special elections, reporting-Legislation
                                inexpedient, and that the bill lie on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            He also returned Mr. Turner's bill [90] and Mr. Kendrick's bill
                                [125,] with Mr. Purrett's amendment, for a general system of
                                registration of voters, and for the prevention of election frauds,
                                with the expression of opinion that a registry law is not only
                                inexpedient, but of doubtful constitutionality, and that further
                                legislation for the prevention of election frauds is unnecessary.
                                The committee recommend that these bills be indefinitely
                                postponed.

                            On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, they were recommitted and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ROADS.

                            Mr. RANDALL, from the Committee on Roads, returned
                                Mr. Packard's bill [70.] supplemental to section 1 of the
                                supervisors' act, with a recommendation that it be indefinitely
                                postponed.

                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS

                            Were introduced and passed to the second reading, viz:

                            Mr. Grover: [217] Supplemental to the act  of March 9; 1857, to repeal all laws
                                in force for the incorporation of cities, and to provide for the
                                incorporation of cities, &c.

                            Mr. Jones, of Wayne: [218] Legalizing the incorporation of towns
                                under the act of June 11, 1852, for the incorporation of towns,
                                defining their powers, &c.

                            Mr. Roberts: [219] To amend section 1 of the act of June 9, 1852, to
                                amend .the 3d section of the act of Feb. 28, 1855, for the
                                regulation of weights and measures.

                            Mr. Mutz: [220] To amend section 17 of the act of May 14, 1852,
                                regulating descent and the apportionment of estates.

                            Mr. Jenkinson: [
                                    220
                                    221
                                ] To extend the powers and duties of notaries public.

                            Mr. Williams: [222] To provide for the organization of life insurance
                                companies.

                            Mr. Kendrick: [223] Authorizing any person, when necessary, to enter
                                on the lands of another and cut or ditch ; and providing for the
                                assessment of damages occasioned thereby.

                            Mr. Heffren : [224] To provide for the indexing of documents in the
                                office of the Secretary of State, and appropriating money
                                therefor.

                            Mr. Parrett: [225] To provide for notice to defendants in certain
                                cases, and supplemental to the justices' act of June 9, 1852.

                            Mr. Lee: [226] To amend section 10 of the act fixing the times of
                                holding the common pleas, &c., (Sullivan, Vigo and Parke.)

                            Mr. Veatch: [227] Suppplemental to the practice act, (relative to
                                names on bonds, notes, bills, c.)

                            On the motion of Mr. ROBERTS and Mr. CAMERON, the House took a recess
                                from 10 to 11:80 o'clock, to admit of the opportunity of witnessing
                                the departure of the President elect. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AGENT OF STATE'S OFFICE.

                            On motion by Mr. ORR, (the order of business being suspended for the
                                purpose,) the House took up the consideration of the Governor's
                                message of the 21st of January, transmitting Mr. Commissioner Ray's
                                report of his investigation of the office of the Agent of State in
                                the city of New York. The report, and documents accompanying (which
                                were not read,) were referred to the Committee on Public
                                    Expenditures. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A NATIONAL HOMESTEAD.

                            On motion by Mr. FISHER, (the order being further suspended,) the
                                joint resolution of the Senate (S. J. R. 8,) instructing our
                                Senators and requesting our Representatives in Congress to use their
                                influence for the passage of a homestead bill, was taken up,
                                considered and adopted-yeas 69, nays 4.

                            The Senate amendment, inserting the word "white" before the word
                                "settler," to the House joint resolution, embracing the same matter
                                with the above, with the resolution itself, was laid on the
                                table.

                            The Senate joint resolution (S. J. R. 6,) proposing an amendment to
                                article 8 of the Constitution, so as to enable townships and
                                cities-to levy taxes for the support of common schools, coming
                                up-

                            Mr. JENKINSON. The object was to get a set of schools in the towns
                                and cities different from other common schools. He was opposed to
                                that.

                            On motion of Mr. STOTSENBERG it referred to the Committee on
                                    Education. 

                            The Senate joint resolution [12] proposing amendment to the 23d
                                subdivision of the 4th article of the Constitution of the State to
                                provide that cities, towns and townships may raise money for the
                                support of common schools, coming up-it was referred to the
                                    Committee on Education.

                            The Senate joint resolution [13] to amend sec. 2, art. 2, of the
                                Constitution, so as guard against fraudulent voting, on motion by
                                Mr. McLean, was referred to the Committe on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Sundry bills of the Senate numbered respectively, 77, 79, 16, 18, 26,
                                44, 56, were severally passed to the second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. Bundy's bill [120] to amend the first section of the act
                                concerning interest On money, coming up-

                            On motion of Mr. DAVIS, (there being a similar bill in the hands of
                                the Committee of the whole House,) it was laid on the table.

                            Mr. Smith of Bartholomew's bill [145] to amend section 33 of the
                                assessment act, was referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means.

                            Mr. McLean's bill [147] to amend section. 68 of the general city
                                corporation act, was referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.

                            Mr. Parrett's bill [148] limiting the time for prosecuting for crime,
                                coming up-

                            Mr. McLEAN proposed to amend"amend by inserting 3 years as the
                                statute of limitations, in place of 5 years."

                            On motion by Mr. ORR, the bill and proposed amendment were referred
                                to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bill [149] to provide for the election of a
                                Surveyor General, &c., coming up-

                            Mr. FRASIER made an ineffectual motion to print.

                            On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, it was referred to the Committee
                                    on County and Township Business.

                            Mr. Jones's bill [150] regulating the election and office of County
                                Surveyor, coming up-

                            Mr. KNOWLTON proposed an amendment, which, without reading, was
                                referred, with the bill, to the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.

                            Mr. Prosser s bill [151] to create the 14th Judicial Circuit, was
                                referred to the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts.

                            Mr. Smtth of Bartholomew's bill [153] to re-establish the 2d Judicial
                                Circuit, coming up- 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 19, 1861
                        No. 14
                    

                    
                        
                        Mr. DAVIS objected to the object of the bill-to putting Bartholomew out
                            of one Circuit into another.

                        On motion of Mr. STOTSENBERG, it was referred to the Committee
                                on Organization of Courts. 

                        
                            IMPRISONMENT FOR JUSTICES' COSTS.

                            Mr. Burgess' bill [154] to amend section 18 of the justices' act of
                                May 29, 1852 coming up on the second reading-

                            Mr.CASON thought it ought to be engrossed. It simply included the
                                costs with a fine before a justice of the peace.

                            Mr. McLEAN thought it should be referred. There was very little doubt
                                but that the proposition was unconstitutional. Our Constitution
                                provides that there shall be no imprisonment for debt; and this bill
                                sought to enforce imprisonment, because the justices' costs were not
                                paid. A bill of similar character was brought before the Legislature
                                at the last session, and the Judiciary committee
                                of one House or the other reported that it was unconstitutional. He
                                moved that the bill be referred to the Commitee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. FRASIER. The entry now in all the courts was, that the defendants
                                stand committed until fine and costs are paid or replevied: and if
                                it were constitutional before the courts of record, why should it be
                                unconstitutional to include the costs before a justice? He had not
                                perception to see the difference. He had never heard the
                                constitionality of such an order questioned.

                            Mr WOODHULL. Had the gentleman ever seen a decision where the
                                question has been raised ?

                            Mr. FRASIER had never seen such a record. He still thought there was
                                good reason why the bill should be passed.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG understood that this was to amend the justices' act
                                so that the justice may have power to imprison for fine and costs.
                                It was a question whether we ought to burthen the counties with the
                                expense of these commitments. It was a serious question in his
                                county, where they have criminals all the time. The expense of
                                imprisonments so far as fines are concerned was as much as they
                                wanted to bear.

                            Mr. CASON had no objection to the reference-did not see anything in
                                the Constitutional objection-never heard it raised before did not
                                think the Constitution contemplated infringement of a rule so long
                                and so well established. Gentlemen talk about economy did they
                                propose economy to justify a rule that the justice shall go without
                                his costs ? whilst the State has a remedy provided for its costs?
                                Costs were nothing but part of the forfeiture or penalty. These
                                defendants commonly had but little property; there were few of them,
                                however, who would go to jail if they or their friends can help it.
                                Our officers have always enough to do to bring criminals to justice,
                                and ought to be compensated.

                            Mr. ATKISSON could see no reason why they should claim any other
                                remedy than the law now gives them. The wrong-doer has no benefit'ot
                                valuation or appraisement laws; and if he has property, and you take
                                the last five cents, why should the officers want to put him to jail
                                at the expense of the county?

                            The bill was referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.

                            Mr. Underwood's bill [155] To fix the time of Courts in the 18th
                                Circuit, was referred to the Committee on the Organization
                                    of Courts.

                            Mr. Parrett's bill [156] providing for fees and salaries of Common
                                Pleas and Circuit Prosecutors, was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Black's bill [157] to repeal so much of the assessment act as
                                authorizes a State Board of Equalization, coming up on the second
                                reading-

                            On motion of Mr. ORR, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges. 

                            The House then adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, February 13, 1861.
                        

                         The PRESIDENT announced the select committee, to which is referred the
                            bills 28 and 72 for the re-organization of the militia of this State,
                            viz.: Senators Craven, Ray, Wagner, Tarkington and Anthony.

                        The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate an invitation from the
                            Superintendent of the Blind Asylum to an exhibition of the proficiency
                            of pupils under his charge, on Friday the 15th instant, at 3 o'clock
                            p.m., which was duly accepted. 

                        

                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.

                            By Mr. CAMPBELL, which was referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee, without reading.

                            By Mr. BEARSS: Asking for the passage of a joint resolution,
                                directing our Congressmen to use their utmost efforts to secure the
                                Constitution and the Union as it is. Referred to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations.

                            By Mr. HULL: From a Mr. Kemnedp, which was referred to a select
                                committee, viz.: Senators Hull, March and Cobb. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                            By Mr SLACK: Judiciary-returning a petition and
                                reporting a bill embracing its object [S. 166] to amend an act
                                supplemental to an act regulating prosecutions in cases of bastardy,
                                &c., approved May 26, 1852, so as to provide for the discharge
                                of defendants in certain cases; which was passed the first
                                reading.

                            By Mr. BEESON: Corporations-returning Senator
                                O'Brien's bill 85see page 104 of the Brevier
                                    Reports-recommending passage.

                            These reports were concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                             The following bills were severally passed the first reading, without
                                objection:

                            By Mr. TURNER: [167] To provide for the laying out and repairing of
                                highways on the line between Indiana and adjoining States.

                            By Mr. DICKINSON: [168] To enable guardians of the minor heirs of
                                deceased parents to execute conveyances in pursuance of contracts
                                made.

                            By Mr. BEESON: [169] To amend section 6 of an act for the
                                incorporation of manufacturing, mining, mechanical and building
                                companies, approved May 20, 1852, by providing that any companies
                                which may have been incorporated in this State for any of the
                                purposes contemplated in said act with a fixed amount or limitation
                                of capital, may increase the same by a vote of stock holders in the
                                same manner as is provided for in the same section for the increase
                                of capital stock.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of the
                                bill [H. R. 86-see below.]

                            By Mr. NEWCOMB: [170] To amend sees. 123 and 124 of an act providing
                                for the protection of trust and other funds of this State, &c.,
                                approved March 2, 1855.

                            By Mr. SLACK: [171] To repeal an act to provide for the return of the
                                jury in the Common Pleas Court on the third day of the term,
                                approved March 5, 1859.

                            [Mr. LINE presented a communication from Mr. Rugg, the Superintendent
                                of Public Instruction, expressing surprise at seeing a notice of the
                                communication from Mr. Fletcher, presented by Senator Miller day
                                before yesterday, and declaring that "I placed him as fully in
                                possession of the office and its effects (on the 11th instant,) as
                                the same were ever in my possession. " Referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.

                            By Mr. WAGNER: [172] To provide f the binding of printed matter
                                ordered by the State to be done in book form.

                            By Mr. LOMAX: [173] To provide for th election of delegates to a
                                general convention of the States, should such a convention be called
                                for by the Congress of the United States.

                            By Mr. FERGUSON: [174] Declaring that sales of land heretofore made
                                by sheriffs under execution, without previous appraisement of rents
                                and profits, shall not be considered void on account of such,
                                failure, and to prevent such sales from being set aside in certain
                                cases.

                            By Mr. SLACK: [175] To amend section 42 of an act to establish courts
                                of common pleas, &c., approved May 14, 1853, so as to regulate
                                the docketing and disposal of business thereof, and an act
                                supplemental thereto approved March 5, 1859. 
                        
                        

                        
                            HOUSE MESSAGES CONSIDERED.

                            The bills H. R. 119, [page 121,] H. R. 1, [described on page 175 of
                                the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS,] and H. R. 86,
                                to amendsecs.8 and 11 of the justices' act of June 9, 1852, were
                                severally passed the first reading.

                             The House resolution authorizing an ex-change of State documents
                                with the Governor of Wisconsin, was laid on the table for the
                                present, under the apprehension of some mistake in the wording of
                                the resolution.

                            The House resolution making the Standing Swamp Land Committees of the
                                two Houses a Committee of Conference to determine the best plan to
                                be adopted for a full inquiry into the alledged frauds concerning
                                swamp lands, &c., was concurred in by consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE STATE BORROWING MONEY.

                            The bill [H. R. 104] to provide for a deficiency in the State
                                Treasury by a loan of $75,000 from the Sinking Fundsee pages 111,
                                117, 164 and 176 of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                    REPORTS-being the special order for this hour (10
                                o'clock)-

                            Mr. LANDERS. It is bad policy for the for the State of Indiana to
                                resort to borrowing money when she has plenty laying out where it is
                                not making one cent of profit. I have recently received a letter
                                from the treasurer in any county, stating that he has money ready
                                and is willing to fork it over upon the call of the Treasurer of
                                State. I have heard similar responses from members here, and I am
                                certain if we were to call upon the county treasurers, we would have
                                plenty of funds. Until that is done I am not willing to vote for
                                this bill.

                            Mr. WAGNER. The House only has the constitutional right to originate
                                money bills, and we have the right to reject or pass what they see
                                fit to give us. I apprehend there is no objection to the bill, but
                                that it borrows from a fund some gentlemen don't want to borrow
                                from. This is but for a temporary matter. The probability is that in
                                a week a  requisition will be
                                made by the Agent of State ia New York for $20,000 to pay interest
                                with; and if that is not paid your bonds will then be protested, yet
                                gentlemen object to the passage of this bill! It is a mere matter of
                                policy. 

                            Mr. COBB. I was not aware this bill had arrived at the point I find
                                it this morning. I have been absent from the Senate several days; I
                                have but Just come in. I am opposed to borrowing money from this
                                fund or any of the trust funds. We have seen difficulty in borrowing
                                money already from this particular fund. We have seen over a million
                                of dollars borrowed from that fund from time to time, not one dollar
                                of which has ever been repaid; and I predict here, and it, takes no
                                far-seeing eye to make the prediction, that if this $75,000 is
                                borrowed of the Sinking Fund, the State of Indiana will never pay it
                                back. During the last three sessions I have made more speeches in
                                defense of this fund than I have made upon any other question before
                                the Senate. There always is some disposition every session of the
                                Legislature to take from that fund. If the bank will lend upon the
                                same terms, why not borrow from the bank, and let this fund, under
                                the act of 1859, be applied directly to the purposes of education.
                                The treasurer of my county, who I spoke to day before yesterday, has
                                money in his treasury which he is ready to give up on requisition.
                                Convince me that it is necessary to borrow money, and I am ready to
                                do it; but I never will consent to borrow from the Sinking Fund.

                            Mr. HULL. When the question was up before the Senate last week, I
                                voted for the resolution requiring county treasurers to forward the
                                State moneys in their possession. Since that time I received a
                                communication from the treasurer of my county, and he has but about
                                $1,000 in his hands. I believe it necessary to borrow the money, and
                                I shall vote for the bill as reported, waving all former
                                objections.

                            Mr. MURRAY. I stand here as opposed to borrowing from the school fund
                                of the State. Gentlemen say we must have money. Admit that; there
                                are other sources from which we can get the money just as cheap and
                                readily .is to lay our hands upon this trust, put in our hands for
                                the children of the State. Gentlemen say this money will be paid
                                back. Pay back what you have already robbed of that fund. The State
                                of Indiana has never paid back what it has borrowed of that fund,
                                and it never may be paid; your promises have never been redeemed.
                                This is an attempted outrage upon this fund. My county treasurer has
                                $10,000 which he intends to remit this week. 

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. We are assured by the committees of the two Houses that
                                this money js needed; and I propose to vote for some way in which it
                                shall be obtained. I would prefer to borrow from the State Bank ;
                                but there is one consideration we should bear in mind. We have got
                                but three weeks of time to do the business of the Legislature in;
                                and it would take one-half of that time to get a new bill through
                                the House and Senate. From the language used by Senators one would
                                suppose that the fund was to be distributed for school purposes.
                                That is not the case; it is simply to be loaned out, and the
                                interest on the loans is all that would be used. Now the State would
                                pay the interest, and the result would be a benefit to the school
                                fund. I take it the interest will be taxed in advance, and thus, it
                                seems to be, it is placing the interest, into the hands of the
                                custodians at an earlier" day than it otherwise could go.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I am anxious the the treasury should be replenished.
                                In the first place I was opposed to borrowing the money at all,
                                believing there could be obtained enough from the county treasurers
                                of the State. But I have been informed that I was mistaken,
                                consequently I am willing to pass a bill to borrow, but unwilling to
                                take it from the Sinking Fund. We passed a bill two years ago that
                                this fund should be loaned out to the several counties, and it does
                                strike me this bill would do injustice to the people. I understand
                                the money can be obtained from the bank, and I can see no objection
                                to borrowing from an institution that is willing to lend it to us,
                                and letting this fund go as provided in the law of last session. We
                                may go on borrowing this fund until we absorb it all, and the act of
                                1859 may be virtually destroyed. I move to recommit with
                                instructions that, the bill be so amended as to borrow the amount
                                contemplated in the bill from the Bank of the State, and report by
                                bill to-morrow morning.

                            Mr. WAGNER, This bill has been before the Senate long enough for each
                                Senator to have made up his mind whether to vote for it or not. I
                                prefer to have a fair vote upon this simple proposition. This is but
                                waiving the matter, and if the Senate is absolutely going to refuse
                                to make the loan and thus stop the wheels of government, we want to
                                know it. For that reason I move to lay the motion to re-commit on
                                the table.

                            The motion was agreed to by yeas 27, nays 14.

                            Mr. STEELE. I hope we will now come to a direct vote. I cannot see,
                                for the life of me, why Senators cannot vote for this bill as it is.
                                If I thought for a moment there would be a waste of this fund, which
                                I consider the most sacred in the State, by the passage of this
                                bill, I should not vote for it. A Senator says the interest will
                                amount to $5,000. Now I cannot see why we had not better pay that
                                interest to the State of Indiana than to a bank in'' which we have
                                no interest at all.

                            Mr. MARCH. Had I been called upon to make provision for the borrowing
                                of this money, I should not have gone to the school fund to supply the deficiency. I think
                                we committed a mistake in not passing promptly a resolution calling
                                upon county treasurers for the State revenues. But as this provision
                                has the sanction of committees of the two Houses, and it is a late
                                stage of the session, I shall vote for this bill; but hope it will
                                not be taken as a precedent. 

                            Mr. ANTHONY. I presume every member on this floor has his mind made
                                up, and believing further discussion entirely useless, I now demand
                                the previous question. 

                            The call was not seconded.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. We have failed to pay what the law of 1859 promises,
                                and I pledge Senators what I know that if you borrow this money from
                                the Sinking Fund, it will not be repaid for some time to come.

                            The bill failed to pass by yeas 22, nays 18-as follows: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Bearss, Beeson,
                                            Berry, Blair, Campbell, Conner, Cravens of Jefferson,
                                            Culver, Dickinson, Grubb, Hamilton, Hull, March,
                                            Mellett, Newcomb, Robinson, Steele, Stone, Turner,
                                            Wagner, and White-22.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Ferguson, Johnson, Landers, Line, Lomax, Murray,
                                            O'Brien, Odell, Shoemaker, Shoulders, Slack, Tarkington,
                                            Teegarden, Williams, and Wilson-18. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            WHITLEY COUNTY COURTS.

                             On motion by Mr. SLACK the bill [H. R, 152] changing the time of
                                holding the common pleas court in Whitley county, was read the third
                                time and finally passed by yeas 37, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A HOMESTEAD BILL FOR ACTUAL SETTLERS.

                            A message from the House announced concurrence in the Senate
                                amendment see page 104 of these Reports-to the joint resolution H.
                                R. 8-see page 37. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            About fifty Senate bills were read the second time and severally
                                disposed of as follows:

                            Messrs. Wolfe's 102, Miller's 103, 155, Teegarden's 106, 154,
                                Ferguson's 109, 123, Murray's 110, O'Brien's 113, Claypool's
                                110,150, Mellett's 124, 131, 132, Lorn ax's 126, March's 138, 157,
                                Anthony's 146, and Ray's 156; were referred to tho
                                    Judiciary Committee.

                            Messrs. Murray's 105, and Carnahan's 122 were referred to the
                                    Committee on Roads and Highways.

                            Messrs. Hamilton's 107, Cobb's 119. Tarkington's 125, Robinson's 127.
                                    Committee on Roads' 129, and Miller's 137,
                                were ordered engrossed for third reading.

                            Mr. Culver's 108 was referred to the Committee on County and
                                    Township Business.

                            Messrs. March's 111, Miller's 142, and Tarkington's 160, were
                                referred to the Committee on Education.

                            Messrs. Conley's 112, Lander's 135, Lomax's 140, Newcomb's 144, and
                                Grubb's 158, were referred to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.

                            Messrs. Newcomb's 136 and Dickinson's 151, 152, were referred to the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts.

                            Mr. Shoulders' 139 was referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance.

                            Mr. Conner's 143 was referred to the Committee on
                                    Banks.

                            Mr. Murray's 147 was referred to the Select Committee on
                                    Military Affairs.

                            A Select Committee's 148 to the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations.

                            Mr. Line's 149 was referred to the Senator Line, Conner and Beeson. 

                            The Committee on the Organization of Courts' 157
                                was referred to Senators Anthony Claypool, Miller, Ray and Cobb.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, February 13.
                        

                        Mr. NEWMAN asked and obtained leave of absence for Mr. Woodruff-sick. Mr.
                            Atkisson also had leave of absence till Friday, and Mr. Heffren. 

                        
                            PETITIONS.

                            Mr. JENKINSON presented two petitions for legislation to protect
                                sheep from dogs, which were referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            Mr. BINGHAM presented petition from Jennings county, for amendment of
                                the road laws, so as to make parties liable for costs who petition,
                                for a road which has been previously reported against as not of
                                public utility;which was referred to the Committee on
                                    County and Township Business.

                            Mr. KENDRICK presented two petitions by J. N. Ray, for amendment of
                                the law creating agricultural societies and the State Board of
                                Agriculture, with a view to prevent fraud, secure economy, and
                                elevate the moral tone of our annual festivals.

                            Mr. FISHER. As one of the members of the State Board, he did not feel
                                called upon to send an unsealed note to this petitioner. But he
                                wished the petitions to be referred to a select committee that will
                                thoroughly investigate the State Board. If there was iniquity there,
                                as in the petition proclaimed, the people ought to know it. There
                                ought to be investigation, that it may be known precisely who is in
                                fault. He would make no motion himself, because it would not be
                                proper for him to be placed on the Committee.

                            Mr. KENDRICK knew nothing in relation to the justness of the charge
                                in the petition. He presented it as he would all papers handed to
                                him with a request to do so. He also was in favor of a thorough
                                investigation. It was due to the board and the country.

                            Mr. HAWORTH said, in behalf of the petitioner, that Mr. Fisher was
                                not included in his charges.

                            Mr. FISHER. There was no more active man on the board than himself,
                                and if rascalities are there, he must be implicated.

                            

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed that it should to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture, and it was so referred. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned Mr. Turner's registration bill [No. 90,] reporting
                                that so much of the bill as proposes to require a voter to reside 30
                                days in the township before he shall Ofter to vote, conflicts with
                                the constitution. The constitution requires only that the voter
                                shall be a white male citizen over 21 years of age; that he shall
                                have been a resident of the State one year, and he shall vote in the
                                township where he resides. If the term "residence" had a definite
                                meaning when the constitution was adopted, it had, &c. But to
                                say that a voter shall reside 30 days in the township before
                                offering to vote-the Legislature might as well say that the voter
                                shall be over 25 years of age, when the constitution says he shall
                                be over 21 years. The committee are desirous of protecting the
                                ballot-box in the most stringent manner; but without saying that a
                                registry law, such as the bill proposes, would be unconstitutional,
                                they are of opinion that such a law at this time is inexpedient and
                                unnecessary; that the population of the State is1 not yet
                                sufficiently dense, nor have we cities sufficiently large, to
                                require such a law. Before that time shall arrive, it is to be hoped
                                the constitution will be changed, and all constitutional objections
                                to such a law removed. The committee recommend that the bill be
                                indefinitely postponod.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. CASON returned Mr. Burgess's bill [154.] to amend the act of May
                                29, '52, and recommended its passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. PARRETT desired the correction of an erroneous superscription on
                                Mr. Hopkins's bill No. 15, to amend the act of February 12, 1855,
                                concerning voluntary associations, viz: "ordered to be engrossed,"
                                when the action of the House was to lay it on the table, for the
                                purpose of admitting an amendment by Mr. Bundy. He wished the
                                    Engrossing Committee to be directed to return
                                the bill for that purpose.

                            The SPEAKER. Let the Clerk correct the entry. There is no necessity
                                for the order.

                            Mr. BUNDY now presented his amendment, adding "conferences,
                                churches," &c., in the proper place, which went to the Clerk's
                                table informally, and without reading, it was filed with the bill.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.

                            Of the following titles were now introduced and passed to the second
                                reading:

                            Mr. Kendrick: [228] Relative to the salaries and compensation of
                                district attorneys from the 5th of March 1859, to the 25th of
                                October, 1860, &c.: [at the rate of $500 per annum.]

                            Mr. Brett: [229] To provide for the redemption of real estate in
                                certain cases within two years from the sale thereof, either by the
                                judgment debtor or by any bona fide creditor of
                                such debtor.

                            Mr. Collins of Whitley: [230] To amend the act to amend first section
                                of the act of May 12, 1852, to authorize the construction and
                                repairs of turnpikes, macadamized and graveled roads, approved March
                                5, 1859.

                            Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe: [231] Prescribing certain duties of
                                prosecuting and district attorneys, and providing compensation
                                therefor.

                            Mr. Brucker: [232] To amend part 6, section G, of the assessment act
                                of June 21, 1852.

                            Mr. Jones of Vermillion : [233] To regulate the docketing and
                                disposal of business in the courts of common pleas throughout the
                                various districts within the State of Indiana, and to provide for
                                the return of juries to the terms of said courts on the first day
                                thereof, and to repeal all acts in conflict with this.

                            Mr. Atkisson: [234] To amend section 6 of the practice act.

                            Mr. Branham: [235] Containing some provisions respecting the sinking
                                fund and its management and control, and some provisions respecting
                                the stock and means belonging to the same, and requiring the
                                officers of said fund to account for the interest that shall accrue
                                on deposits made of said fund, and how and for what purpose said
                                deposits may be made and secured.

                            Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe: [236] To authorize the judges of the circuit
                                and common pleas courts to hear and determine all demurrers, motions
                                or applitations for the production of books or papers, and for the
                                appointment of receivers, in vacation. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.

                            Mr. JENKINSON (by leave) presented a communication from Samuel L.
                                Rugg, late Superintendent of Public Instruction, addressed to the
                                House of Representatives, stating his surprise at the communication
                                of his successor. Miles J. Fletcher, noticed in yesterday's
                                proceedings and stating, that he was commissioned for two years from
                                the 14th of February '59; that "on the 11th inst. Mr. Fletcher came
                                into the office and exhibited to me his commission which purported
                                to authorize him to serve in the office two years from the second
                                Monday in February 1861, which in the present year occurred on the
                                llth day of the month. He remarked to me that he had been talking
                                with his friends on the subject and they had advised that he should
                                assume the office on that day. To this I replied that I concurred in
                                that advice, and advised him to assume the duties of the office at
                                once. I placed him as fully in possession of the office, as the same
                                had ever been in my possession," &c.

                            Mr. J. supposed Mr. Rugg merely desired to let the House and country
                                know that he was willing to do what is right.

                            The paper was referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.

                            

                            On motion by Mr. PARRETT, it was ordered that Mr. Anderson be added
                                to the Committee on Agriculture. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. Folk's bill [158] coming up in order on the second reading-and
                                Mr. Veatch's county history bill, [170,] they were referred to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.

                            The Judiciary Committee bills [159, 160, 186, 187]
                                were ordered to be engrossed.

                            The Public Expenditures Committee bill [161] To
                                amend the 11th section of the treasury act of March 1, 1859; coming
                                up-with Mr. Roberts's bill [167,] Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bill
                                [168,] Mr. Veatch's bill [169,] Mr. Kendrick's bill [172,] Mr.
                                Williams's bill [174,] Mr. Orr's bill [181,] and Mr. Stotsenberg
                                bill [189,]they were severally referred to the Committee on
                                    the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Anderson's bill [162] to amend section 107 of the common school
                                law, as amended and approved March 5, 1859, and to repeal
                                conflicting laws, was passed the second reading and referred to the
                                    Committee an Education. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONVENTIONAL INTEREST.

                            The Judiciary Committee's bill [168] coming
                                up-

                            Mr. UNDERWOOD proposed to amend, by "striking out all having
                                reference to 10 per cent, on contracts."

                            On motion of Mr. HOLCOMB, the bill and proposed amendment were laid
                                on the table.

                            Mr. Davis's school-money loan bill [164] was passed the second
                                reading and referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means.

                            Mr. Black's common pleas bill [165] was passed the second reading and
                                referred to the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts.

                            Mr. Polk's dog bill [166,] coming up-

                            Mr. JENKINSON moved its engrossment.

                            Mr. McLEAN proposed to exempt lap-dogs and rat-terriers from its
                                provisions, and to require the dog's collar to be inscribed, "I am a
                                licensed dog-are you ?" and immediately withdrew it.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to refer the bill to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture, with instructions to insert-"All dogs are
                                hereby abolished except lap-dogs, rat-terriers and poodles."

                            The motion was laid on the table.

                            Mr. BUNDY demanded the previous question, and under its operation,
                                the House refused to engross-yeas 38, nays 49-and then,

                            On motion of Mr. POLK, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            Mr. Veatch's dog bill [175,] coming up-

                            Mr. BLACK proposed to exempt hounds from its provisions. Hounds, he
                                said, were essential in sparsely settled regions.

                            Mr. PROSSER hoped the amendment would prevail. It would be a hardship
                                to tax the hounds in the county.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew propose to exempt rat-terriers and
                                pointers.

                            On motion by Mr. BUNDY, the bill and proposed amendments were
                                referred to the Committee Agriculture.

                            Mr. Andersen's dog bill [176] took the s reference,

                            Mr. EDSON asked (but the House refused) leave to introduce a
                                resolution authorizing the Doorkeeper to employ a sufficient police
                                force to keep order in the lobbies of the Hall. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE HEFFREN AND MOODY "AFFAIR."

                             Mr. FISHER also was refused leave to offer a preamble and
                                resolution, rehearsing the constitutional provision against duelling
                                in this State, and the fact that it has been violated by Mr. Moody
                                and Heffren, and declaring their expulsion from their position as
                                members of the House of Representatives.

                            Subsequently Mr. BRYANT asked (but was refused) leave to submit a
                                resolution, rehearsing facts and rumors in this affair, and
                                proposing a committee of five to inquire into and report the facts
                                in the case, with power to send for persons and papers.

                            Mr. McLEAN was opposed to any more investigating committees, because
                                of their expensiveness; and by way of illustration, he read from the
                                last general appropriation bill the item of $91 66 to William H.
                                Drapier, for taking testimony in the Heffren and Gooding
                                investigation, ordered by the Senate.

                            The SPEAKER. There is no question before the House. The resolution is
                                not in order without unanimous consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. Williams's bill [171,] to repeal "valuation and appraisment," and
                                Mr. Frasiers county-seat bill [173,] were passed to the second
                                reading and referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges- Mr. SHERMAN proposing to amend the latter
                                so as to include in its provisions all pending cases.

                            Mr. Moss's bill [177,] to regulate remission of fines and
                                forfeitures, coming up-

                            Mr. FISHER proposed to amend so as to require the recommendation of
                                the judge and prosecuting attorney.

                            The bill proposed amendment were referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. Kendrick's bill [178.] to amend the city corporation acts, coming
                                up-

                            Mr. HALL moved to refer to the Committee on
                                    Corporations, with amendments, that members of the
                                council be elected for two years, so that half of them shall go out
                                each year, and that the mayor and other officers hold for two years
                                instead of one.

                            The bill of proposed amendments were so referred. 

                            Mr. Wood's estray bill [179,] coming up-

                            On motion by Mr. WOODS, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges, with Mr. Owen's amendment
                                proposing to strike out "clerk" and insert "auditor."

                            Mr. Parrett's salary bill [182,] coming up-

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to amend, so as to make the salaries of all the
                                State officers below the Governor $2,500.
                            

                            Mr. FISHER proposed to insert appropriately : "and the same shall be
                                in full for all services;" and that the subject be referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. ORR said he desired to see the bill amended throughout.

                            The subject was so referred.

                            The Senate bills numbered 5, 7 and 11 were passed the second reading
                                and referred to the Committee on the
                                Judiciary.

                            The Senate bill No. 19, having passed the second reading-

                            On motion of Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, it was referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                            The Senate bills No. 12, 24 and 29, were passed to the third reading.
                                Mr. Wells's slack-water bill [188,] being passed the second
                                reading-

                            Mr. CASON proposed to insert $10,000 in wince of $1,000, and the
                                subject was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. Cooprider's lost paper bill [180,] was passed the second reading
                                and referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.

                            The House then adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.

                        
                            THURSDAY, February 14, 1861.
                        

                        The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate the 9th annual report of the
                            Superintendent of Public Instruction, which was laid on the table, and
                            200 copies ordered to be printed. Also, a report from the State
                            Librarian of stationary furnished to Senators during the past two weeks,
                            which was referred to the Committee on Finance
                            without reading.

                        Mr. MURRAY gave notice that he should, to-morrow, move to change the rule
                            for but one session a day. 

                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, &C.

                            By Mr. WILLIAMS: which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Claims without reading.

                            By Mr. RAY : Proceedings of a Union meeting lately held in Shelby
                                county in favor of .the Crittenden. amendments, &c., which was
                                referred to the Committee on Federal Relations.
                                Also, a similar memorial from Rush county, which took the same
                                reference without reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS asked leave to offer a resolution rescinding the vote of
                                the Senate sending all matters relating to the State of the Union to
                                the Committee on Federal Relations.

                            Mr. ANTHONY objected.

                            The Senate refused to grant leave by yeas 19, nays 84. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. CONNER: Judiciary-returning Senator Hamilton's
                                bill 31-see page 45-with amendments, recommending passage. 
                        
                        

                        
                            QUALIFICATION OF VOTERS.

                            Mr. MARCH : Judiciary-(majority)-returning Senator
                                Blair's bill 30-described on page 45 of the Brevier
                                    Legislative Reports-with amendments, recommending
                                passage.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB: Judiciary-(minority)-dissenting from
                                the majority report, and objecting to the passage of the bill unless
                                the second section be stricken out.

                            Mr. MARCH. The point in controversy is simply this : the power of the
                                Legislature to require a residence as a condition for voting. That
                                matter has been discussed to a considerable extent, during the
                                present session, and I do not deem it necessary now to go into it at
                                any length. I have expressed it as my opinion, and do so now, that
                                the Legislature has the power to define what constitutes a
                                residence. I hope the bill will pass with that section in it; it is
                                the only effectual means by which we can preserve the purity of the
                                ballot box. If it should turn out that the courts should not agree
                                with the Legislature, no harm is done; but if the courts agree, much
                                good would be accomplished.

                            Mr. LINE moved to concur in the majority report, with an amendment
                                striking out 30 days, and inserting in lieu thereof 15 days.

                            Mr. LANDERS. I cannot see the propriety of this motion. If we have
                                power to require a residence of 15 days, we have the power to
                                require 30 days. I am inclined to support the majority report. Give
                                us thirty days for transient persons, for we do not propose to
                                require any length of time for heads of families.

                            Mr. COBB. I concede the fact, that we ought to have some law to
                                protect the purity of the ballot box more than we have now ; but I
                                believe, from reading the Constitution, that we cannot fix the time
                                required to constitute a residence beyond what, the Constitution
                                fixes it itself. I am of opinion that whenever a person settles down
                                for the purpose of residing, it becomes his residence at once. That
                                being the case, any law we may enact fixing the time of residence
                                will amount to nothing. If we can require thirty days, we can
                                require thirty years. I think a great deal of injury might grow out
                                of the passage of a law of this kind, in case it was
                                unconstitutional. A case would not come up until an election takes
                                place, and it is not propable the judges will throw aside the law;
                                but they will act under it,, and thereby disfranchise thousands of
                                our citizens. Yet I say there ought to be some change upon the
                                subject, but we will have to go back to the Constitution before we
                                can do so-the constitution must be changed. I have found decisions
                                in New York courts, where when a person settles down in any place
                                with the intention to make it his or her home, it becomes his or her
                                residence to all intents and purposes.

                            [The PRESIDENT announced the special order for this hour (10 o'clock)
                                to be the consideration of the minority report of the Committee on
                                Federal Relations, identical with the joint resolution S. 4-see
                                pages 44 and 45  of the Brevier Legislative Reports. On Mr. ANTHONY'S
                                motion, it was made the order for this day week at this hour. 

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. There is a general disposition here to pass some such
                                law as the one now reported by a majority of this committee. So far
                                as I am concerned, I am exceedingly anxious that something of this
                                kind shall be done, for the reason that I think it will tend to
                                purify the ballot box. I am willing to take the leap, let the
                                consequences be what they may. My own judgment is in favor of the
                                constitutionality of this law. This is a matter of much importance.
                                I can vote for this proposition, looking to past legislation, with a
                                good grace; believing it is within the perview of this Legislature
                                to give a definition to the term "residence." I therefore trust this
                                minority report may be concurred in. The length of time, thirty
                                days, is sufficiently short. 

                            On motion by Mr. LANDERS, the motion to recommit was laid on the
                                table by yeas 82, nays 10.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I am desirous to join in the passage of any law to
                                protect the ballot-box. I think I can see so many evils that I
                                cannot conscientiously vote for this bill. To discriminate between
                                different classes of men, as this bill proposes, seems to me to be
                                contrary to the Constitution. If there is any duty over another this
                                Legislature owes to the people., it is to enact a better law for the
                                prevention of frauds on the ballot-box.

                            Mr. MURRAY. This is a question of the utmost importance, and the
                                people demand its careful consideration at our hands. There is no
                                other way of preventing election frauds than by the adoption of the
                                very clause the gentleman, by his minority report proposes to strike
                                out, unless you get up registry laws to prevent the importation of
                                voters. The Constitution defines who shall be a voter in the State;
                                and we want to fix what shall constitute a residence-that is what we
                                want. I am going to support the bill, because I believe it to be
                                constitutional.

                            Mr. RAY. The district I represent demands that there should be some
                                radical reform in our election laws. One objection made to the bill
                                is, that it is an invasion of a provision of the Constitution. There
                                is no objection to its necessity or expediency ; all agree in that
                                opinion ; gentlemen are compelled to admit the necessity of this law
                                ; both parties seem to demand it. The objection is far-fetched when
                                based upon the Constitution of the State. The Constitution having
                                left undefined what constitutes a residence; it is assumed that the
                                word "residence" is an arbitrary term fixed by jurisprudence and the
                                lexicons of the country, which is not true. I hold it is an open
                                question in Indiana, what is a residence for voting purposes, and it
                                is within the power of the Legislature to make a definition. I think
                                our hearts and judgments should be for preserving the purity of the
                                ballot-box at the risk of the law being unconstitutional.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. It is not because I think the court will decide this,
                                act unconstitutional that I shall vote against the bill, but because
                                I think it is unconstitutional myself. And it is not that I am
                                opposed to some law being enacted that will prevent illegal voting;
                                I am for all laws that will punish illegal voting anything that will
                                purify the ballot box I am for.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. This question has been discussed for a number of years
                                past, and this constitutional question has been a matter of great
                                doubt, among those who have the power of discrimination with regard
                                to questions of this character. There is no doubt but what frauds
                                have be,en committed; ballot box stuffing is a very common thing
                                (getting to be) in this State. There is no one thing so fast
                                destroying our country as this infringement upon the elective
                                franchise. If there is a question of doubt, let us have that doubt
                                settled : let us pass the law. and if the Supreme Court see proper
                                to decide it unconstitutional, let them do it, and let the
                                responsibility be with them; if there is any reponsibility in the
                                matter. We will have discharged our duty, and given the people an
                                earnest of our desire to protect their rights. For this reason alone
                                I shall give the bill my hearty support.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN. I feel as anxious as any Senator upon this floor to
                                preserve the purity of the ballot box, but I am well satisfied a
                                large portion of .the inhabitants of the State would be robbed of
                                their rights by the passage of this bill. I have never heard any
                                complaint of frauds in my portion of the State, but I have heard of
                                it in other portions and in other counties, and owing to that
                                report, I would be willing to vote for a bill requiring a person to
                                reside in a township ten or fifteen days. But I am satisfied while
                                we have the men to control the ballot box we do have, we cannot have
                                it better. It is controlled by the judges, clerks and inspectors. We
                                always have men who love mercy, do justice, and walk humbly before
                                God. [Laughter.] As the bill now stands, I shall vote against it. 

                            Mr. FERGUSON. I have heard a good deal said at different times about
                                fraudulent voting, but as a general thing more noise has been made
                                about it than is necessary. It is a good deal like milk-sickness,
                                which we often hear prevails to a considerable extent at a distance,
                                but seldom can be found at home. Defeated candidates, instead of
                                frankly acknowledging that they were fairly beaten, because they did
                                not get votes enough, are apt to complain that fraudulent votes was
                                the cause of defeat. I take it that the best way to purify the
                                ballot-box, is to see that the box is kept under the control of
                                honest officers. We will find it very difficult to define by law
                                what is meant by the word "residence" in the Constitution. Suppose
                                we say that men shall reside in
                                a township, for county for a certain period before they are allowed
                                to vote, even the term not, sufficiently defined. How reside ?
                                Simply stay in the township so long before the Section; or shall
                                they stay there under such circumstances as entitles them to a
                                residence under the Constitution, given by courts to the leaning of
                                the words. So the question of residence will still be open for
                                different constructions. I take it that a man's residence depends
                                entirely upon his intention; hence the Constitution declares that no
                                soldier or seaman shall acquire a residence in the State in
                                consequence of being stationed within the state. Such men are
                                subject to the commands of the government, and cannot exercise any
                                discretion or intention in regard to their residence. I do not think
                                we can constitutionally pass any law on this subject. When we voted
                                the other day to submit a proposition for the amendment of the
                                Constitution, so as to give the Legislature the right to pass such a
                                law as now proposed, we thereby admitted that we dad no such right
                                under the present Constitution. I therefore think we cannot
                                consistently vote for the bill, and must wait until the people, by
                                an amendment to the Constitution, gives us the right to pass such a
                                bill.

                            Mr. BLAIR. I do not understand in passing that resolution, we
                                conceded the point that we had no power to pass such a law as this.
                                I gave my vote for it merely for the purpose of making assurance
                                doubly sure, that we might have the remedy ; that we could renlly
                                and constitutionally eradicate this evil. The Senator from Lawrence,
                                [Mr. Cobb,] said if we could require thirty days residence we could
                                require thirty years as well. I think that is doing great violence
                                to that clause in the Constitution defining the qualification of
                                voters. I believe the opinion was expressed first by Governor Wright
                                in 1857, that we should pass a law requiring a residence in a
                                township of sixty days, and he gave it as his opinion, that that was
                                the only remedy. Governor Hammond made a similar recommendation. I
                                am certainly willing to concede that they, are entitled to a
                                considerable respect in construing the meaning of our Constitution.
                                I think the majority report should be concurred in. It is a measure
                                demanded by the people, and if the Supreme Court choose to take the
                                responsibily of deciding this bill unconstitutional let the
                                responsibility rest with them. Mr. SHIELDS. I shall support this
                                bill. I can recollect when this constitutional question prevented
                                the passage of a similar law years ago. Let the people of Indiana
                                see that we are disposed to amend our election laws give them proof
                                that is clear, that we are in earnest.

                            Mr. CONLEY demanded the previous question.

                            The demand being seconded,The majority report was concurred in by
                                yeas 31, nays 10.

                            By Mr. MARCH : Judiciary-returning Senator
                                Lander's bill 47-see pages 96,97, and 192-recommending that it lie
                                on the table, for the reason that the provisions of the bill are
                                embodied in another bill (the one just acted upon) already reported
                                to the Senate.

                            By Mr. BEESON : Agriculture-returning Senator
                                Lomax's bill 73see page 96with amendments recommending passage.

                            By Mr. LINE: Select Committee thereon-returning his bill 149-see page
                                194-recommending passage.

                            Which reports were severally concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the first
                                reading:

                            By Mr. CONLEY: [176] To regulate the granting of pardons.

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN : [177] To amend section 5 of an act fixing the time
                                of holding common pleas courts in this State, &c., approved
                                March 5, 1859.

                            By Mr. SLACK: [178] To amend section 2 of an act establishing courts
                                of conciliation, approved June 11, 1852 ; to make the court to be
                                composed of circuit clerks. 
                        
                        

                        
                            BANKS AND BANKING.

                            On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL, his bill 86-described on page 105 of the
                                    Brevier Legislative Reports-was taken from the
                                table-the question being on the amendment proposed by Mr.
                                Tarkington-see page 150 of these Reports.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. The amendment is simply this: The bill requires
                                banking upon Done other than Indiana bonds, which are worth more by
                                20 per cent than any Southern bonds. 'My amendment requires for
                                every $100 circulation a deposit of $105 in Indiana bonds. This
                                would bring our bonds home, is conceded to be a safer banking basis
                                than the old law, which required a deposit of $110 for every $100 of
                                circulation.

                            Mr. MARCH opposed the amendment.

                            Mr. HAMILTON was willing to vote for the bill either way, but should
                                vote against the amendment.

                            Mr. LANDERS. I am in favor of the bill as originally reported by the
                                committee, but if the amendmant proposed is adopted, I will
                                certainly have to vote against this bill upon the ground that the
                                bill holder will not be saved. At the same time the bankers of the
                                country do not desire it-they are satisfied with the bill as it
                                is.

                            Mr. CONLEY. I have examined this bill with some care and think the
                                bill holder is better secured than under the provisions of the old
                                law. I am oposed to the amendment.

                            Mr. STEELE. By the report of the State Auditor we see that there is
                                one million of dollars banking capital in the State, $400,000 of
                                which predicated upon Southern stocks. Now in order to get these
                                banks to exchange their stocks for the benefit of the bill holder,
                                we must offer some kind of inducement.

                            

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY the amendment was laid on the table by yeas
                                27, nays 13.

                            Mr. ANTHONY moved to concur in the Committee report by striking out
                                the words "and five" in the committee amendment and inserting the
                                words "and ten."

                            Mr. A. said: My proposition is to leave it as it was under the old
                                law-$110 shall be deposited for every $100 circulation. Gentlemen
                                have asserted that Indiana stocks are better in the market than
                                those of other States. That is true at present and may be so
                                to-morrow, next week and next year, but the year following it may be
                                untrue. In the present condition of the country there is a
                                likelihood they may change in the market. If in a single instance
                                Indiana should fail to meet the interest due on her bonds her stocks
                                will go down. It is possible a large amount, of money may be
                                required-I understand there is $20, 000 interest due in the city of
                                New York, in a few days; Senators have prevented the passage of a
                                bill raising money; and if these are the feelings, how long will it
                                be before there is a failure to pay over the interest and the stocks
                                of Indiana will go down in the market? If we are going to protect
                                the bill holder, let us do it. I am in favor of the passage of the
                                bill, but think this security should be in it.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend the amendment by making it " twenty"
                                instead of " ten."

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I desire to provide the citizens of the State of
                                Indiana with a good currency; I have no other object in view. I can
                                with $50,000 break up half a dozen free banks. Your free bank money
                                is not worth; within fifty cents on the dollar of what it is
                                circulating for. [Mr. C. explained his bill. When he had
                                concluded]-

                            The Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, February 14, 1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. STOTSENBERG, (Mr. Speaker Allen being for the moment
                            absent,) Mr. Bingham was called to the Chair. 

                        
                            PETITIONS.

                            Mr. McLEAN presented the petition of J. D. Boyd, M. D., representing
                                the Grand Division of the Sons of Temperance, memorializing the
                                Legislature upon the subject of establishing an asylum for
                                inebriates, which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Temperance.

                            Mr. LANE presented two petitions, of Walter B. Lander and 224 others,
                                citizens oft Putnam county, asking for repeal of the new county law
                                of 1859.

                            Mr. EPPERSON presented a similar petition, and they were severally
                                referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.

                            Mr. ROBERTS presented a petition from Fulton county, requesting, in
                                view of the present disturbed state of our national affai the
                                passage of a joint resolution, asking our Senators and
                                Representatives in Congress use their influence to preserve the
                                constitution of the United States as it is, to maintain the Union
                                unbroken, and take such measures 6 shall secure the protection of
                                all federal property and promote the enforcement of the federal laws
                                in our common country; which was referred to the Committee
                                    of Thirteen.

                            Mr. McLEAN presented the petition of Hugh W. Smith and others,
                                praying for the repeal of the amendments of the divorce law at the
                                last session of the General Assembly; which,on the motion of Mr.
                                JENKINSON, was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. DASHIEL presented the petition of J C. Kennedy, of Pierceville,
                                Indiana, asking for a special act for the admission into the Asylum
                                for the Insane, of his wife, Nancy C Kennedy, now in the Ohio
                                Asylum; which was referred to the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions.

                            Mr. FLEMING presented the petition of Charles V. Lange and others,
                                citizens of Dubois county, against the dismemberment of said county,
                                and the attachment of a portion thereof to the county of Orange ;
                                which was referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ADDITIONAL BANK DISTRICTS.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on Banks, returned
                                his bill [62,] to authorize the Bank of the State of Indiana to lay
                                off and create five additional bank districts, and to locate and
                                establish banks therein; with a recommendation that the amendments
                                proposed thereto be laid on the table, and that the bill be
                                passed.

                            The report argues at length for the passage of the bill. With
                                reference to the unequal distribution of the branches of the Bank of
                                the Bank of the State, it says that section 91 of their charter
                                authorizes the establishment of additional branches, by the consent
                                of two-thirds of the stockholders ; and for any other amendment of
                                the charter, it requires unanimous consent. The object of the bill
                                is to extend banking facilities to those portions of the State now
                                left without them. It does not propose to increase the capital
                                stock, but to allow the location of additional branches where they
                                are needed, so as to place all the different portions of the State
                                on an equality as to commercial advantages. No doubt is entertained
                                of the soundness of the Bank of the State. Its credit is good, and
                                its bills are sought after everywhere. The principal Objection urged
                                against extending the number of branches is, because the bank is not
                                liable to taxation for municipal purposes, on its capital stock, and
                                it is urged that no more branches should be established without they
                                surrender this principle. Without discussing the question whether
                                this ought to have been allowed, or not, it was allowed, and so
                                become a settled question, and
                                the bank, like an individual, is not likely to surrender a privilege
                                so settled and established. But we think this consideration ought
                                not to influence the action of the on the question of the
                                establishment of other branches, &c.

                            Mr. DOBBINS was satisfied there was sophistry in this
                                report-satisfied that the interests of the State did not require an
                                increase of branches. The first question the report presents was the
                                ground upon which this increase is claimed- that the Bank of the
                                State is a sound and safe institution. It was matter of history (he
                                referred to the Bank Frauds Report,) that the charter of this Bank,
                                obtained in 1855, was enacted in fraud, iniquity, corruption. With
                                such a history, how could they ask for an increase of powers at this
                                time ? We find also in their charter (page 229,) the 3d section
                                specifies the number of bank districts that shall be made in the
                                State-not less than 15 nor more than 20. We find, by referring to
                                another section, that 20 shall be the entire number of branches. And
                                here comes this bill to create five additional branches, without a
                                repealing clause. To make the bill accord with the constitution,
                                this third section Of the charter should be amended so as to read
                                not less than 15 nor more than 30 branches. He read the whole of the
                                third section.

                            Mr. VEATCH. Will the gentleman allow me to call his attention to
                                section 91, which gives the right to authorize and establish
                                additional branches by the consent of two- thirds of the board. The
                                bill is founded on that. 

                            Mr. DOBBINS. He had that before him. He undertook to say, if they had
                                applied at Rockport, they could have had a branch. But they were
                                perhaps unwilling to open the books for stock as the speculators at
                                that time required. He thought the people had lost material
                                sovereign power, by the enactment of that bank charter, to which he
                                called especial attention. In section 79 of that charter, it will be
                                found that the books may be open between the hours
                                of 10 and 2 o'clock-not from 10 to 2-but any time
                                between these hours-so excluding honest men from taking stock, by
                                opening and receiving all the stock in ten minutes, He undertook to
                                say that these additional branches should not be established. Did
                                they want one at Rockport, with exemption from taxation ? The people
                                at this time would prefer to loan their money to individuals, and on
                                private securities. On page 250 of the document in his hand, there
                                was a clause [sec. 91] giving to the Legislature the right to
                                establish additional branches by the consent of two-thirds of the
                                stockholders. Our State Constitution provides that no law shall be
                                passed, the taking effect of which shall depend upon any authority
                                than that recognized m that Constitution. Here was a law made
                                dependant, not on the will of the people, but of two-thirds of the
                                stockholders. The pleadings for bank facilities below New Albany, he
                                answered by referring to the banks at New Albany and Vincennes-near
                                enough for all purposes. He could not think these branches were
                                demanded by the people of the country in the counties of Spencer,
                                Sullivan, &c. It was class legislation, for the benefit of those
                                whose interests were carefully fostered in late legislation here. He
                                referred to that, provision of the embezzlement bill which
                                authorizes the collection of taxes in bills of the State Bank, to
                                the exclusion of the free banks, &c.; and to those other
                                provisions which will lock up in her vaults continually the whole
                                amount of the current revenue of the State. Doubtless, champaigne
                                and other emblems of rejoicing, would inaugurate the passage of the
                                bill in many places in the State, notwithstanding the plea that it
                                was not desired by the bank. He admitted, with the report, that the
                                bank of the State was now in the hands of honest, men ; and he did
                                not want to offer again a temptation to repeat the frauds by which
                                the stock of this institution was taken for all the other branches.
                                He referred the gentleman from Spencer to the free banks for
                                "facilities."

                            Mr. JENKINSON alleged that a man could not now borrow a thousand
                                dollars in the lower counties, on such acceptable terms as the Bank
                                of the State affords: He lived in a region where the people have
                                these facilities, and he was willing to extend the benefits of the
                                State banking institution equally throughout the State. He would
                                supply the loss of the free banks by branches of the Bank of the
                                State. Men should have the facilities of borrowing money at home,
                                where they could get endorsers, where their property was located,
                                and where they were known appreciated.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG had done all in his power to give this bill a fair
                                hearing, by voting for the printing. But when such a report as this
                                is presented, we ought to consider the question carefully. Any rich
                                man could be exempt from taxation upon just as good a plea as that
                                made for the Bank's exemption. The men who got up the bank were
                                responsible for the unequal distribution of the branches ; and those
                                who had sought and obtained branches, had realized a curse instead
                                of a blessing. Honest business men laboring men spent their
                                substance in paying usurious interest to the Bank of the State. Did
                                they want one in Rockport, with exemption from taxation ? He
                                objected not to a bank that stands on the same footing with
                                individuals or corporations. When they ask for additional districts,
                                he would tell them they should never have another privilege till
                                they gave up those privileges which they had filched from the
                                people. His remarks were arrested at 10 o'clock by the special
                                order-the consideration of Mr. Nebeker's new county bill. 

                            On motion of Mr. NEBEKER, the special order was postponed till 11
                                o'clock.

                            

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG resumed, and spoke at length against the bill. He was
                                satisfied that the bank did want those branches; and that rather
                                than lose them, the bank would give up that part of their charter
                                which exempts them from taxation in cities, which was making the
                                institution so odious all over the State. But he objected further to
                                the banks dealing exclusively in bills of exchange, and to her power
                                to demand interest in advance, as provided in the 5th and 13th
                                sections of their charter. Bank facilities were dearly bought. And
                                this was the foundation of the pleadings here for 10 per cent,
                                interest on contract. But this once granted to the people, the banks
                                would avail themselves of it as well, and so increase their power to
                                a dangerous extent. He warned the body against the bill, and
                                exhorted not to vote for it without a provision that would bring the
                                banks in point of privilege on a level with the individual.

                            Mr. VEATCH believed that gentlemen opposing this bill did so from
                                their prejudices, which were established years ago, perhaps, and not
                                on its real principles and merits. He thought so from the wide
                                mistake made by the gentleman from Martin, when he supposed we were
                                extending the, exclusive privileges of the bank. Not a single word
                                of the sort was in the bill. Gentlemen seemed to have conceived a
                                sort of bank mania, and to strike right and left at anything having
                                the name of a bank. With regard to the rejoicings over the
                                embezzlement bill, they may themselves have participated in the
                                champagne suppers.

                            Mr- STOTSENBERG was guiltless of champagne.

                            Mr. DOBBINS would not object.

                            Mr. VEATCH. What, then, was this bill? Simply power granted to create
                                five additional branches. It allows not a single dollar more of
                                stock. It grants no privilege-no new power. It allows of no new
                                right or interest, but simply provides that the Bank of the State
                                may extend five additional branches. And the reasons, he thought,
                                were exceedingly plain. All admit that wrong was done in locating
                                the branches in 1855; and this bill is attacked, as though that
                                wrong was going to be repeated under it. The power of locating the
                                original branches was placed in the hands of commissioners-of
                                trading politicians. Now that power is proposed to be granted to the
                                bank alone ; they will look to the locations as a matter of
                                interest-they will be careful not to place a branch where it is not
                                needed, because they are responsible for the managementment of all
                                the,branches ; and the gentleman grants the bank is now controlled
                                by honest men. Being controlled by honest men (he thanked the
                                gentleman for the admission,) the House might trust the bank for
                                these locations.

                            This question of exemption from municipal taxation, he thought the
                                whole of it might probably consist in the fact, that the gentleman
                                from Floyd is asking the friends of this measure to constitute
                                themselves a mud-wagon to draw the city of New Albany out of her
                                difficulties in this question. He says the bank will be compelled,
                                by the moral power of public opinion, to give up to the Legislature;
                                but Mr. V. would ask him to bring in a separate bill to repeal that
                                portion of the Bank Charter, and he would vote for it. When the
                                branch was about to be established at New Albany, no man there
                                raised his voice against it. They were glad to forego the right to
                                tax for the sake of the branch; and now, sitting comfortably round
                                their bank, they ask the Legislature not to give other portions of
                                the State equal rights with themselves in this respect, simply
                                because they want to tax this branch. 

                            But as to this question of taxation. The gentleman mentioned Rockport
                                as a location He supposed the location for that district would be
                                made at a proper place, somewhere in one of the counties of the
                                district-Dubois Spencer, Perry, or Craw ford. He would be content to
                                leave that with the people and the judgment of the "honest men" of
                                the bank. If the location should be made in the town of Cannelton,
                                the difficulty about the question of taxation would be with the men
                                of Connelton. How could the people of Rockport, or of the town of
                                Dover in Martin county, be effected by it? Or if Rockport got it,
                                would Connelton, or any other town be interested in the question,
                                whether we got municipal taxation or not? Why, then, should New
                                Albany concern themselves about us? Now she has got a bank, why
                                should she compel us to wade through this difficulty, of lifting olf
                                that section of the Bank Charter before we may have any share in its
                                benefits? He insisted, that whether right or wrong, this exemption
                                has nothing to do with this bill. The exemption is in the charter,
                                and we have no power to take it off. Then why fight it? The
                                gentleman says the Supreme Court has decided that they have a right
                                to that exemption. Will the bank surrender this right? or will the
                                gentleman introduce his bill to allow them to do so? It will require
                                the consent of all the branches. If a single branch dissent, his
                                bill avails nothing. His bill would be just as successful alone, as
                                on this bill. Would he insist upon denying us a right he enjoys,
                                when its possession by us could do him no harm ?

                            Every man conversant with banking operations knows that the Bank of
                                the State of Indiana can use her six millions of stock as profitably
                                where her 20 branches now are, as she could by the proposed
                                extension. It is notorious, also, that she could use twelve millions
                                of capital, and make the same per cent, of profits. But he desired
                                to disclaim any bank influence operating on his mind. No bank man
                                had desired this bill of him ; but the people of a portion of Dubois
                                and Warrickin that fine agricultural region had demanded it. They
                                all say, when our federal difficulties  are composed, and the things of trade
                                return to their proper channels, if this bill pass, the bank might
                                be induced to extend a district in our direction. No bank man had
                                desired it. He did not believe the bank desired it, because each
                                additional branch would but give them additional partners. But they
                                yield to the de-sire of the people, if the Legislature choose to
                                give them the power. The whole thing turned on this question. There
                                are six millions of bank capital. Shall these six millions be
                                concentrated in the favored towns and cities? or shall a portion of
                                it be placed within the reach of every town and city in the State?
                                Will you only fatten and build up your favorite localities, or will
                                you generously allow this capital to be distributed into these
                                agricultuaal portions of the State, and enable them to move their
                                produce to market? All this talk about privilege, he insisted, did
                                not touch the question. 

                            Mr. OWENS. It might by some be thought anomalous for a Democratic
                                representative to support banks. But banks were necessary to an
                                advanced state of civilization. He gave examples. With 16,000 people
                                down in his county they had not a bank. Banks had sprung out of the
                                Christianity of the age. What were Commerce, Agriculture what would
                                be the condition of our merchants without them? Banks were able and
                                always willing to make loans on more favorable terms than the
                                bankers.

                            Mr. CAMERON insisted now on the previous question, and under its
                                operation, the report was concurred in-yeas 50, nays 41.

                            Mr. VEATCH. I now move that the bill be considered as engrossed, and
                                passed the third reading.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend by adding, to this effect: Sec. 2.
                                The several several branches of the Bank of the State shall betaxed
                                to the full amount of the capital stock subscribed and paid in the
                                same as the personal property of individuals or other corporations.
                                3. It shall not be lawful for them to issue notes for circulation on
                                deposits, notwithstanding their charter. 4. They shall not have
                                interest in advance on money loaned, nor compel their customers to
                                pay more than the legal rate of interest. 5. They shall accept the
                                whole of this act or none.

                            Mr. VEATCH. Inasmuch as the 17th section of the Bank charter
                                prescribes that they shall not take any more than the legal rate of
                                interest; and inasmuch as they have a right to demand interest in
                                advance, I move to lay the amendments on the table.

                            The yeas and nays being demanded, ordered and taken on this motion,
                                resulted-yeas 53, nays 41-as follows: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS-Messrs. Bingham, Boydston,
                                            Branham, Brucker, Bundy, Burgess, Cameron, Collins of
                                            Whitley, Crain, Dashiel, Epperson, Feagler, Fisher,
                                            Fordyce, Frasier, Gore, Grover, Hall, Harvey, Haworth,
                                            Henricks, Hopkins, Hudson, Kurd, Jenkinson, Jones of
                                            Vermillion, Jones of Wayne, Kendrick, Lane, Lightuer,
                                            McLean, Moody, Moorman. Nebeker, Newman, Orr, Owens,
                                            Parrett, Ragan, Randall, Shennan, Sloan, Smith of Miami,
                                            Thomas, Thompson, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Wells,
                                            Williams, Wilson, Woodhull,and Mr. Speaker-53.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Andersen, Atkisson,
                                            Black, Brett, Campbell, Cason, Collins of Adams, Combs,
                                            Cooprider, Davis, Dobbins, Erwin, Ferguson, Fleming.
                                            Fraley, Gifford, Hayes, Holcoinb, Horton, Howard, Jones
                                            of Tippecanoe, Kitchen, Knowlton, Lods, Lee, McClurg,
                                            Moss, Mutz, Packard, Pitts, Polk, Prosser, Prow,
                                            Bobbins, Roberts, Smith of Bartholomew, Stevenson,
                                            Stotsenberg, Trier, Warrum, and Woods-41. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            So the amendment was laid on the table.

                            Mr. DOBBINS proposed to amend, by adding a provision, That if said
                                banks establish said branches then thereafter but one-fourth of
                                their capital stock shall be used for bills of exchange payable out
                                of the State-the remaining portion to be used for the purpose of
                                discounting notes payable at some one of the branches of said bank;
                                and said branches shall not contract for or receive any greater rate
                                of interest than six per cent, including exchange.

                            This was laid on the table-yeas 56, nays 38-and the question
                                recurred. Shall the bill pass ?

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and under its force, the
                                vote was taken and reported-yeas 46, nays 46,-as follows: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        AYES-Messrs. Bingham, Boydston,
                                            Branham, Brucker, Burgess, Cameron, Campbell, Collins of
                                            Whitley, Crain, Dashiel, Epperson, Feagler, Fisher,
                                            Fordyce, Frazier, Gore, Grover, Harvey, Henricks,
                                            Hopkins, Kurd, Jenkinson, Jones, of Vermillion,
                                            Kendrick, Lane, Lightner, McLean, Moorman, Nebeker, Orr,
                                            Owens, Ragan, Randall, Sherman, Sloan, Smith of Miami,
                                            Thomas, Thompson, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Wells,
                                            Williams, Wilson, Woodhull, and Mr. Speaker-46.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Anderson, Atldnson,
                                            Black, Brett, Bundy, Cason, Collins, of Adams, Combs,
                                            Cooprider, Davis, Dobbins, Ferguson, Fleming, Ford,
                                            Fraley, Gifford, Hall, Hayes, Holcomb, Horton, Howard,
                                            Hudson, Jones of Tippecanoe, Jones of Wayne, Kitchen,
                                            Knowlton, Lads, Lee, McClurg, Moss, Mutz, Newman,
                                            Packard, Parrett, Pitts, Polk, Prosser, Prow, Robbins,
                                            Roberts, Smith of Bartholomew, Stevenson, Stotsenberg,
                                            Trier, Warrum, and Woods,-46. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            So the bill was defeated.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House tin 9th annual Report (printed) of
                                the Superintendent of Public Instruction.

                            Mr. Dobbins had leave of absence-his sister at the point of death. 

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW COUNTIESCOUNTY BOUNDARIES.

                            Mr. Nebeker's bill, [39] To authorize the formation of new counties,
                                and change county boundaries, and to repeal all laws in conflict
                                with this act, coming up as the special order-

                            On motion by Mr. McLEAN, the House resolved into Committee of the
                                Whole thereon Mr. McLean in the Chair.

                            The bill having been read through-

                            Mr. NEBEKER discussed the provisions of the bill. It provides but one
                                material change of the law-that no county shall be dismembered, nor
                                a county line changed, without a vote on it by all the people
                                interested. He referred to the examples of fraud and deception
                                practiced under the law as it is. No county was exempt from the operations
                                of the act of 1857; and it admitted of an exchange of territory by
                                two adjoining counties, containing less than 400 square miles. He
                                showed, by example of the counties of Fountain and Warren, the
                                injurious effects of that law-disfranchising the people of the south
                                end of Fountain, and the north end of Warren county, and sending
                                them where they did not want to go,and where they were not welcome;
                                as he showed a few days ago, when one of the reporters (the Journal
                                reporter) represented him as ignorant of the geography of his own
                                county, which circumstance, however, he had not thought important
                                enough to bear a correction. He explained the provisions of the act
                                of 1859, and gave some account of its passage. The House bill was
                                superseded by the Senate bill No, 208. He quoted copiously from the
                                Journal of the last. House of Representatives, viz : from pages 979,
                                1023,1024, 1031, 1033, 1062, 1083,1114, 1119, to show that there was
                                no emergency clause in the bill, as it passed the House, and that
                                Dr. Snyder's proviso, viz: "Provided that no new county shall be
                                formed without the consent of a majority of the. qualified voters of
                                the county or counties out of which it is proposed to be formed,1'
                                which is not in the published act, was put into the act at the time
                                it passed the House: and thereupon he charged fraud as resting
                                between the clerk of the House and the Committee on Rights and
                                Privileges, last reporting on the bill in the House. He was
                                satisfied, however, that the clerk of that session [Dick Ryan] had
                                no interest in the matter, and that the fraud must have been
                                practiced by interested parties. He thought now he had fully
                                answered the gentleman from Boone and Hendricks, as to whether the
                                last Legislature knew what they were about on that bill.

                            Mr. CASON would like for the gentleman to tell how the bill got
                                through the Committee on engrossed bills? and where was the gen
                                tleman from Warren, who was a member of the last House ?

                            Mr. NEBEKER. I was at home, or I do not believe it would have passed.
                                I was called home by an affliction in my family.

                            Mr. CASON. How could the Committee report the bill as correctly
                                engrossed, without seeing the error?

                            Mr. NEBEKER. There is a good deal in this that I know nothing about,
                                never expect to know. It was done in the night time. I tell you,
                                however, I think Mr. Devoll knew all about, it. I cannot answer the
                                question of the gentleman from Boone. I wish he could. 

                             Mr. CRAIN. There were but two propositions before the committee-one,
                                the bill, and the other, the saving clause of the minority report.
                                We had seen, with Mr. Nebeker, that the bill of the last session did
                                not pass in its shape in the acts ; that the journal shows that an
                                amendment was engrafted by Mr. Snyder, giving all the people
                                interested the power to vote. That amendment wns never seen
                                afterwards. It was taken out of the bill before it went again to the
                                Senate. The Senate concurred in the other amendments that came from
                                the House; and the act is printed with an emergency clause never
                                read in the House. It was a bill to make lawsuits, and it had made
                                lawsuits which would not probably be settled in the next twenty
                                years. He objected to the saving clause of the minority. It was a
                                clause calculated to disturb and convulse the interests of several
                                counties, had procured the passage. If interested parties had
                                procured the passage of the bill of last session, and therefore
                                involved themselves in lawsuits, were such interests, created under
                                such circumstances, to be protected by a saving clause ? That act
                                gave the people at large no notice, and no chance to know what is
                                going on by interested parties getting up the petition for a change.
                                Only one county had been formed under it, that is the county of
                                Newton,out of Jasper-so large as not to affect the constitutional
                                provision. The object with him was to arrest pending proceedings for
                                new counties.

                            Mr. WOODHULL explained that he was op. posed to the existing law, and
                                opposed to a saving clause here, to protect interest created in
                                actions commenced under a base law.

                            Mr. DOBBINS explained his position on this bill, as a member of the
                                last General Assembly, by reading his remarks sketched in Draper's
                                Brevier Reports; and corroborated Mr. Nebeker's statement with
                                reference to the Snyder amendment. [See vol. ii., pp. 295,296.] He
                                considered both the act of 1857 and thea ct of 1859 wrong. He
                                referred to a suit pending in his region to get a portion of Dubois
                                county attached to Martin, based on these acts, which made him to
                                doubt what his vote should be as to the proposed saving clause.

                            Mr. CASON, having been alluded to, deemed it proper to make a few
                                remarks. The gentleman from Warren made the charge of fraud, without
                                asking for investigation-without saying anything about it till
                                investigation is too late. The gentleman could not tell how the act
                                got through the committee on engrossed bills. The worthy gentleman
                                referred to, as concerned in the alleged fraud, was known to be
                                wholly above such a charge. Who were opposed to this saving clause?
                                He charged that political influences, in favor of the Democratic
                                party, were operating in the proposed change of lines between
                                Fountain and Warren, and favored by the gentleman from Warren; aud
                                all gentlemen situated in counties proposed to be divided were
                                opposed to the saving clause. Gentlemen who stood by and saw a bill
                                passed by fraud, (they prove it by the record,) should be slow now
                                to charge fraud, for they themselves are culpable if there be fraud.
                                Were we to sit in judgment on the action of the last Legislature?
                                Several actions had been commenced for new counties under the act of
                                1859, which the Supreme Court had decided valid,  and those interested in opposition to
                                those changes come in here and seek legislation to throw the costs
                                of these proceedings on those who have commenced in good faith. If
                                this saving clause is not passed, it would be to pass judgment
                                against the last Legislature, andd to disregard the rights of
                                innocent parties. The lobbies, which had been inferred, were on both
                                sides of this question, but mostly against this saving clause.
                                Gentlemen say the courts will protect vested rights then why oppose
                                the saving clause ? The bill before the House was as unjust as a
                                proposition could be; was a keeping back of the possibility of
                                making any new county: for the majority were generally controlled by
                                those around the county seat. 

                            The CHAIRMAN here directed the reading of the minority report, which
                                also recommends the bill with an amendment, saving the rights of
                                parties where suits have been commenced forth organization of new
                                counties.

                            Mr. FRASIER. The gentlemen says the bill is as unjust as anything can
                                be, because it requires a majority of the voters interested to
                                change the line. Had we not a statute that requires two-thirds to
                                remove a county seat? and there were in this House examples of the
                                same rules. He considered that some changes of county lines embraced
                                interests equally grave with that of the removal of a county seat.
                                He said it was an injustice for a few persons to make a change of
                                lines, without consulting the majority. It was evident from the
                                journal, that there was some juggling and stuffing in the passage of
                                the bill of 1859. It was a new doctrine that repealing this act
                                would implicate the last Legislature in fraud or unjustifiable
                                blundering. Was this indeed without precedent, as the gentleman
                                says? A repeal, without a saving clause was no impeachment of the
                                former Legislature. He was not interested in any manner, but
                                supported the bill without the saving clause, because he believed
                                the existing law was bad from the beginning.

                            On motion of Mr. CAMERON, the committee rose, reported progress, and
                                asked and obtained leave to sit again to-morrow at 9 o clock. 

                            Mr. FEAGLER had leave of absence-sick.

                            On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, Mr. Jenkinson's Circuit Court bill [172]
                                was taken up the motion to print was reconsidered and rejected, and
                                it was referred to the Committee on the
                                Judiciary.

                            On motion by Mr. JENKINSON, his tax bill [5] was made the special
                                order for Monday 3 o'clock.

                            Mr. CAMERON had leave to refer his bill to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. BRUCKER had leave of absence till Monday.

                            The House then adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        
                        
                            FRIDAY, February 15, 1861
                        

                        Mr. MURRAY presented a petition against the killing of sheep by dogs,
                            from the Union Agricultural Society of the Tenth Congressional District;
                            which was referred to the Committee on
                            Agriculture.

                        Mr. HAMILTON presented two petitions praying for an adjustment of
                            national difficulties upon the basis of the Crittenden amendments; which
                            were referred to the Committee on Federal Relations. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE FINANCE
                                    COMMITTEE

                            Were made, returning the following bills with the recommendations
                                named :

                            
                                 By Mr. STEELE: Senator Murray's 32-described on page 30 of
                                    the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS-indefinite postponement.

                                By Mr. HAMILTON: Senator Hull's 23-described on page 30 of
                                    these Reports-indefinite postponement.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: In reply to a resolution of the Senate,
                                    reported that the committee had examined and found on file the
                                    bonds and stocks deposited by the free banks of the State as
                                    required by law; also a statement in relation thereto. Laid on
                                    the table, and 200 copies ordered printed.

                                By Mr. CONLEY: Senator Grubb's 158-see page 194- indefinite
                                    postponement. (Another bill on the same subject the committee
                                    agreed to amend and report.) Also his bill 112-see page
                                    161-passage.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON: Senator Lander's 135-see p. 184- passage with
                                    amendments.

                                By Mr. MELLETT: Senator Johnson's 81-see p. 104,- passage with
                                    amendments.

                                By Mr. BLAIR: Senator Murray's 61-see page 88-indefinite
                                    postponement.

                                By Mr. WAGNER: Senator Newcomb's 144-see page 185-passage.
                                    Also a petition from citizens of Brown county, recommending that
                                    it lie on the table, inasmuch as a bill has been introduced
                                    embracing the same subject.

                                By Mr. TARKINGTON: A petition from the citizens of Montgomery
                                    county, recommending that it lie on the table.

                                By Mr. SHOEMAKER: A resolution [S. 24] lie on the table; also
                                    Senator Lomax's 140-see p. 185-passage. 
                            

                             Which were severally concurred in.

                            Mr. MURRAY moved to amend by indefinitely postponing the bill.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. This bill proposes that the tax collected of negroes and
                                mulattoes shall be applied for the purposes of colonization. I am
                                opposed to concurring in the report of this Committee. We have
                                appropriated thousands of dollar in behalf of colonization, and the
                                sum total is that one negro has been sent off, and he ran away to
                                come back again. We must see the utter folly of maintaining this
                                system.

                            The motion was agreed to by yeas 35, nays 10. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE

                             Were made as follows, returning bills with the recommendations
                                severally named:

                            

                                By Mr. MARCH: His bill 133-see page 185 of these
                                    Reports-passage.

                                By Mr. DeHART.: Senator Wilson's 92-see page 129-lie on the
                                    table.

                                By Mr. CONNER: Senator Anthony's 146-see page 185-passage,
                                    with amendments.

                                By Mr. MILLER: Senator Ferguson's 123-see page 163-lie on the
                                    table.

                                By Mr. NEWCOMB: His bills 114 and 115-see page
                                    163-passage.

                                By Mr. RAY: Senator Ferguson's 109-see page 159- passage. Also: his bill 156-see
                                    page 194-lie on the table.

                                By Mr. SLACK: Senator Miller's 155-see page 194 lie on the
                                    table. Also: Senator Lomax's 126-see page 169-for the action of
                                    the Senate.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: His bills 116-see page 163-and 150-see page
                                    194-passage.
                            

                             Which were severally concurred in.


                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE COMMITTEE ON
                                    EDUCATION.

                            
                                 By Mr. MILLER: His bill 142-see page 185-passage.

                                By Mr. LINE: Senator March's 111-see page 159-passage.

                                By Mr. TARKINGTON: His bill 150 to provide a Normal School in
                                    the State University-passage.

                                By Mr. ODELL: Senator O'Brien's 94-see page
                                    129-passage.

                                [Mr. CULVER, from the Committee on County and
                                        Township Business, returned his bill 108-see page
                                    159-recommending passage. Also: a resolution relating to county
                                    treasurers, setting forth in separate columns the amount of
                                    personal property assessed-reporting it as inexpedient to change
                                    the law on the subject.]
                            

                            These reports were severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading:

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: [179] To authorize master commissioners of the
                                circuit and common pleas courts of this State to issue writs of habeas corpus, and try cases arising out of such
                                writs, and to award injunctions restraining orders, and writs of ne exeat, and providing for their compensation for
                                sai5 service.

                            By Mr. SLACK: [180] to amend an act entitled an act to amend section
                                1 of an act authorizing the construction of plank, macadamized and
                                gravel roads, approved May 12, 1852.

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: [181] To amend section 13 of the misdemeanor act,
                                approved June 14, 1852.

                            By Mr. SLACK: [182] To repeal the act prescribing the duties and
                                fixing the compensation of State Agent.

                            By Mr. COBB: [183] To amend section 1 of an act to provide for the
                                appraisement of real estate, approved December 21, 1858; also
                                defining the duties of appraisers, approved March 4, 1859; also
                                defining the duties of county auditors and commissioners in regard
                                to the appraisement of railroads.

                            By Mr. COBB: [184] Conferring jurisdiction upon justices of the peace
                                in certain cases where executors, administrators or guardians are
                                plaintiffs.

                            By Mr. RAY: [185] To lengthen the term of the common pleas courts in
                                Shelby county. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE EMBEZZLEMENT BILL.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER the embezzlement bill H. R. 1-described on
                                page 175 of the BREVIER LEHISLATIVE REPORTS- was
                                taken up and read the second time. [See page 74 of these
                                Reports.]

                            Mr. MURRAY moved to refer the bill to a Committee, with instructions
                                to make the penalties of the bill applicable to county officers as
                                well as State officers:

                            Mr. CONNER moved to further instruct to conform to the Senate bill on
                                the same subject reported upon by the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. MURRAY accepted.

                            Mr. WAGNER. I am opposed to the amendment, and gentlemen cannot put
                                it in and enforce it with any kind of justice at all. The thing is
                                simply absurd. If applied to the county treasurer, it may be just
                                and proper, for he has a vault and is a judge of money; but the
                                township treasurer has no safe, and is not a judge of money as a
                                general thing. I would much prefer to abolish the office of township
                                treasurer than to enforce these restrictions upon it. Such a
                                provision was attempted to be incorporated in a similar bill two
                                years ago, but it failed in both Houses.

                            Mr. CONNER. It will be absolutely necessary to exempt county and
                                township treasurers, from the fact that in many counties there is no
                                safe place to keep the funds of the county, and the officers are
                                compelled to make deposits in banks, or with merchants, who are
                                provided with safes in order that the money may be safely kept. The
                                same is the case in reference to township treasurers; they have no
                                safe place to keep moneys, and should be permitted to deposit for
                                safe keeping, and for no other purpose.

                            Mr. MARCH. I apprehend this bill will meet with public approbation
                                more surely were it to include every public officer, rather than any
                                particular class of officers. If we wish to avoid defalcations, we
                                must remove temptation, and cast off all chances of loaning the
                                public moneys. All officers should he regarded as trustees, and the
                                moneys in his hands a sacred fund, with which he has no right to
                                tamper himself, or loan to his friends. Township treasurers can pay
                                out these funds in a short time after they get it; and money is
                                always safer in the hands of persons to whom it belongs. I hope the
                                bill may be so amended.

                            Mr. LANDERS offered an amendment, requiring the State Treasurer to
                                convert all bank bills in his hands on the 1st of January, April,
                                July and October into gold and silver; which was decided out of
                                order.

                            Mr. COBB offered an amendment, striking out all that part of the bill
                                which refers to the notes of solvent specie-paying banks regularly
                                organized under the laws of this State; which was decided out of
                                order.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON offered an amendment, providing that moneys received
                                and disbursed by any State, county or township officer shall be in
                                gold and silver; which was decided out of order.

                            Mr. LINE. Shall we say the State officers are the only dishonest men,
                                or shall we apply the same rule to county and township officers? It
                                has been urged that they have no safe. Every township treasurer
                                should get a safe. I am opposed to exempting any class of men from
                                the penalties of this law, and hence I am in favor of the
                                instructions presented by the Senator from Elkhart. [Mr.
                                Murray.]

                            Mr. JONES moved to amend the amendment by instructing the Committee
                                to exempt 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 22, 1861
                        No. 15
                    

                    
                        

                        
                            the sinking fund commissioners from the provisions of the bill.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB submitted further instructions to so amend that the
                                penalties of the bill relating to the disposal of the public funds
                                shall not take effect till proper vaults shall be provided for the
                                safe keeping of said funds; also, that deposits may be made in
                                solvent banks in the name of the State, upon satisfactory assurances
                                that the money shall be paid on demand, the interest to go to the
                                State.

                            Mr. N. said: The great complaint has not been so much in depositing
                                monies as in making loans, thus hazarding the funds in their hands.
                                So far as losses have occurred from deposits, they have been by
                                seeking out the wildcat banks that would give the highest rate of
                                interest. I think there is a hardship in requiring these officers to
                                keep the moneys on hand without having the proper means of securing
                                it. I venture that any experienced burglar could go into the State
                                Treasurer's office, and get out every cent of money in three hours.
                                The security of public funds could be better obtained by allowing
                                its deposit, than by putting it in insecure safes.

                            Mr. MARCH. I presume any bank wishing to borrow money can get tho
                                proper security. We are setting guards around the public treasuries
                                of the State, great and small: let us make no distinction. I am
                                opposed to the amendment in every shape and form.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the bill and pending amendments were
                                referred to the Finance Committee.

                            Mr. LINE submitted further instructions, which were also referred, to
                                make all custodians of public moneys amenable to law.

                            [Mr. CONLEY offered a joint resolution, appropriating $10,000 to the
                                aid of sufferers in Western Missouri and Kansas: but objection being
                                made, he withdrew it.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            BANKS AND BANKING.
                            The Senate resumed the consideration of Senator Claypool's bill
                                [86]-described on page 105 of these Reports-pending at the
                                adjournment of yesterday. The question being on Mr. Tarkington's
                                amendment to Mr. Anthony's amendment-both submitted yesterday-

                            Mr. CONLEY moved to lay the amendment on the table.

                            Mr. ANTHONY demanded a division of the question.

                            The amendment to the amendment was laid on the table.

                            The amendment was also laid on the table.

                            Mr. COBB moved to amend by adding a clause compelling banks to
                                receive their issues in payment of debts due them.

                            The amendment was agreed to by consent.

                            The Committee report was then concurred in by consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            Senate bills were read the second time and referred to committees, as
                                follows:

                            Messrs. O'Brien's 161, De Hart's 163; Dickinson's 168, Newcomb's 170,
                                Ferguson's 174, Conley's 176 and Slack's 178. To the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Messrs. Carnahan's 164, Slack's 171 and 175 were ordered
                                engrossed.

                            Mr. Berry's 165-Corporations.

                            Mr. Turner's 167-Roads.

                            Mr. Beeson's 169-Agriculture.

                            Mr. Wagner's 172-Printing.

                            Mr. Lomax's 173-Federal Relations.

                            [Mr. O'Brieri's [177] changing the time of holding the common pleas
                                courts in Dearborn county-rules suspended-yeas 41, nays 0 read the
                                third time and finally passed by yeas 41, nays 1.]

                            House bill 86-Organization of Courts.

                            House bill 119-ordered engrossed. 

                        
                        

                        
                            PERFECT TITLES TO RAILROADS.

                            Senator Hamilton's bill 31-see page 45 of these Reports-being read
                                the third time-

                            Mr. CONNER. The purpose of this bill is to allow the purchasers of
                                railroads under a foreclosure upon first mortgage bonds to buy in
                                the road, and then reorganize and reinstate stock holders, reinstate
                                subsequent creditors and junior mortgages. This bill does not make
                                it obligatory upon purchasers upon first mortgage bond to reinstate
                                every debt, but it is found to their interest to do so, and they do
                                do so, and allow each creditor to take the chance in the new company
                                just as in the old. There is also a provision legalizing sales made
                                in accordance with this bill heretofore.

                            Mr. COBB. I have no doubt but what this bill, as far as applicable to
                                the road for which it is gotten up for, would do its work well
                                enough; but this bill is general in its provisions, and I must say I have heard the
                                attorneys who got up this bill explain its provisions, and I was
                                unable to comprehend it. I think I comprehend something in relation
                                to this bill; if passed into a law, it makes the stockholder in all
                                railroad companies liable to lose his stock at any time; it is an
                                inducement to managers of railroad companies to let the debts of the
                                company go unpaid; let it go to sale and get their friends to
                                purchase it in order to cut out the stock holders. I am not disposed
                                to legislate for the benefit of monied corporations. This bill has
                                been presented to the Ohio and to the Illinois Legislatures; I
                                presume that have not passed it, and we ought not to pass it.

                            Mr. HAMILTON said a few words in support, of his bill.

                            Mr. STEELE obtained the floor, but the hour for adjournment having
                                arrived-

                            The Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, February 15, 1861. 
                        

                        
                            THE HEFFREN AND MOODY AFFAIR.

                            Mr. FISHER moved to pass over informally the special order, to enable
                                him to introduce his resolutian for the expulsion of Messrs. Moody
                                and Heffren, and demanded the yeas and nays thereon, which being
                                ordered and taken resulted-yeas, 41, nays 39. Upon explanation of a
                                misunderstanding between Mr. Fisher and the Chair, as to the terms
                                of this motion, the question was annoueced again, viz: Shall the
                                order of business be suspended for the purpose indicated ? and the
                                yeas and nays were ordered to be taken.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, thought it was notorious that there was a
                                personal difficulty ty between Mr. Moody and Mr. Heffren, when their
                                friends asked their leave of absence for the Thursday morning of
                                last week. They were both gone then. He knew that Mr. Heffren left
                                town a week ago last Wednesday night. On Thursday morning the leave
                                was asked for Mr. Heffren. and granted-he did not say it was
                                unanimous-and at the same time leave was asked and granted to Mr.
                                Moody, with the fact of their having left to settle a personal
                                difficulty generally known. If both these gentlemen were
                                Republicans, upon a resolution to try them without their presence
                                here, he would vote No all the time.

                            Mr. STOTSENBURG did not understand, that in voting to consider this
                                resolution, he was voting in favor of the resolution. He agreed with
                                the gentleman from Bartholomew, that these gentlemen should have a
                                fair hearing. It was plain enough that this question would be
                                brought before the House, sooner or later, and he could not see why
                                it might not as well be considered now as at any other time. Action
                                on this case was demanded by the feeling of our constituents, and he
                                was for meeting it now-getting it properly before the House, so as
                                to give time for a fair trial.

                            Mr. JENKINSON thought the least said the soonest memded. He wanted to
                                go on with the business of the House. This was outside
                                business-outside of the State. He vote against suspending the order
                                of business.

                            Mr. WOODHULL was in favor of suspending the orders, because he did
                                not believe the resolution would ever be readied in the regular
                                order.

                            After debate, &c., in which several members defined their
                                position-

                            The yeas and nays were taken and reported-yes 63, nays 29-as follows: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS-Messrs. Anderson, Atkisson,
                                            Boydston, Branham, Bryan, Bundy, Cameron, Campbell,
                                            Cason, Collins of Whitley, Collins of Adams, Combs,
                                            Cooprider, Crain, Dashiel, Davis, Epperson, Erwin,
                                            Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher, Fordyce, Fraley, Frasier,
                                            Gifford, Gore, Hall, Harvey, Haworth, Hayes, Henricks,
                                            Holcomb, Hopkins, Jones of Vermillion, Jones of Wayne,
                                            Kendrick, Kitchen, Lods, Lane, Lee, Lightner, Moorman,
                                            Nebeker, Newman, Orr, Parret, Polk, Randall, Sloan,
                                            Smith of Miami, Stevenson, Stotsenberg, Trier, Thomas,
                                            Thompson, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Wells, Williams,
                                            Wilson, Woodhull, and Woods-63.

                                        NAYS- Messrs. Bingham, Black, Brett,
                                            Burgess, Fleming, Ford, Gresham, Grover, Horton, Howard,
                                            Hurd, Jenkinson, Jones of Tippecanoe, Knowlton, McClurg,
                                            McLean, Moss, Mutz, Owens, Packard, Pitts, Prosser,
                                            Prow, Robbins, Roberts, Sherman, Smith of Bartholomew,
                                            Warrum, and Mr. Speaker-29. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             So the rules and orders were suspended.

                            The resolution was then read and considered. It is as follows: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, the Constitution of the State
                                            of Indiana provideth that every person who shall give or
                                            accept a challenge to fight a duel, or who shall
                                            knowingly convey to another person such challenge ; or
                                            who shall agree to go out of the State to fight a duel,
                                            shall be ineligible to any office of trust or profit:
                                            and whereas, it is notorious that a challenge has been
                                            given by G. C. Moody, Representative from the county of
                                            Jasper, to Horace Heffren, Representative from the
                                            counties of Washington and Harrison to fight a duel, and
                                            that said challenge was accepted by said Heffren, and
                                            that said parties went out of the State for the purpose
                                            of fighting a duel ; therefore,

                                        Be it Resolved, That the said G. C.
                                            Moody, Representative from the county of Jasper, and the
                                            said Horace Heffren, Representative from the counties of
                                            Washington and Harrison, be and they are hereby expelled
                                            from this House. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. VEATCH. Being satisfied that the House could not proceed with the
                                consideration of this resolution without taking up time; and seeing
                                that business more important was pressing for action, and the
                                session being more than half spent, he would move to refer the
                                resolution to a select committee of three, before whom the parties
                                could appear for the purpose of defense.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB proposed to amend this motion by substituting a
                                resolution, setting forth, that whereas, certain of the members and
                                officers of this House have been engaged in giving, bearing, and
                                accepting a challenge to fight a duel, and did go out of the State
                                for that purpose, in violation of the Constitution; therefore
                                resolved, that a committee of five be appointed to examine into, and
                                report the facts in the case; and that they have power to send for
                                persons and papers.

                            Mr. BUNDY was in favor a committee of five, and intended to have
                                moved to so amend the motion of the gentleman from Spencer.

                            Mr. VEATCH. I accept that.

                            

                            Mr. BUNDY. But I am opposed to this amendment of the gentleman from
                                Gibson, and move to lay it on the table.

                            The motion was agreed to. 

                            Mr. HAWORTH proposed to make this subject the special order for
                                Thursday, 10 o'clock. 

                            The SPEAKER. The motion to eommit has preference.

                            Mr. McLEAN moved ineffectually to lay Mr. fetch's motion on the
                                table.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. The people of the State, in their capacity of acting
                                as jurors and judges, do not treat even the meanest criminal as this
                                resolution proposes to treat two members of this House. Let us have
                                a committee of investigation. He doubted whether it was competent
                                for the House to act in the case without a record of conviction.
                                When we act in such a case, we must know what has been done. Let us
                                give the case into the bands of dispassionate, disinterested men,
                                who shall all have all the evidence before them. Such has been the
                                practice in Congress, and is the proper practice for all time; and
                                it is proper and right, and in accordance with the law of the land.
                                He was in favor of the resolution for the appointment of a
                                committee. He did not want to see the resolution of the gentleman
                                from Wabash postponed, without something effectual in its place.

                            Mr. FISHER did not feel disposed to offer any opposition to the
                                motion of the gentleman from Spencer. But he could not understand
                                the gentleman from Floyd, when he seemed to say that we have no
                                power to expel a member without a verdict against him. When the
                                Constitution provides that by a vote of two-thirds we may expel a
                                member, it does not mean to say that we shall first go through a
                                formal trial to conviction. All we want is to be satisfied in our
                                minds that the individual is worthy of expulsion. He had no
                                objection, however, to these parties being hoard. His only fear was
                                that time would be delayed and frittered away, so there would be no
                                opportunity for action. Whether the House would see proper to expel
                                them or not, was a matter in which he felt no more interest than
                                others. He thought he could see a disposition on the part of some to
                                avoid a direct vote here, by putting the matter into the hands of a
                                committee. He did not say this of the gentleman from Spencer.

                            Mr. VEATCH. His motion was to facilitate action. He supposed the
                                committee would act promptly.

                            Mr. STOSENBERG read an authority: "In some of the States it is the
                                commission of the crime, and in others conviction is necesoary."

                            Mr. FISHER. That was not satisfactory to him.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and, under its force, the
                                resolution as referred to a Select Committee of Five. 

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW COUNTIES AND COUNTY BOUNDARIES.

                            The SPEAKER now announced the special order, viz : the consideration
                                of Mr. Nebeker's county boundary bill [39] and according to order
                                the House resolved into Committee of the Whole
                                thereon-Mr. McLean in the Chair.

                            On motion by Mr. CAMERON, the Committee rose and reported a
                                recommendation that the bill do pass.

                            The question being on concurrence-

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. He laid it down as a fact, that the innocent people
                                of Indiana are not responsible for the blundering or the fraud of
                                the last Legislature. When the acts come in their printed form to
                                the people, they are to be noticed and recognized as the law of the
                                land. We are all interested in the repeal of the acts of 1859 and
                                1857-all were agreed on that. But there was a point of difference as
                                to a saving clause. After listening to the debate, he declared he
                                had heard nothing that could have weight with him against such a
                                clause. He rehearsed the provisions of those acts granting rights to
                                go on and organize new counties. Those who in good faith, had taken
                                proceedings under this law should be protected. He submitted
                                examples, and spoke at some length.

                            Mr. JENKINSON demanded the previous question.

                            Mr. CAMERON desired merely to say, that the gentleman from Floyd had
                                made two speeches against the saving clause, and no one had been
                                permitted to answer him.

                            There was a second to the demand, the main question was ordered, and
                                the report of the Committee of the Whole was
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. FISHER proposed to amend the bill, by adding to the 10th section
                                : " Provided that all proceedings commenced to change county
                                boundaries, under the act of 1857, shall be continued and determined
                                according to the provisions of said act." All the eloquence here
                                that has been expended against a saving clause had been directed
                                against the act of 1859, which is alleged to have been passed
                                wrongfully. He wished now to save and protect the interests of those
                                who have proceeded under the act of 1857, which was passed
                                constitutionally. Rights that have accrued under that act should
                                certainly be protected.

                            Mr. PROSSER moved to lay the amendment on the table; but withdrew it
                                for-

                            Mr. CRAIN. If you save proceedings under the act of 1857, you save
                                all proceedings; because the act of 1859 is but an amendment
                                engrafted upon it. He renewed the motion to lay the amendment on the
                                table.

                            The amendment was laid on the table-yeas 62, nays 27.

                            On motion of Mr. NEBEKER, it was ordered that the bill be considered
                                as engrossed, and read the third time now.

                            Mr. FRALEY had said nothing on this question, owing to his position
                                in the election campaign, in which he felt himself instructed to
                                keep quiet in this matter. He had been requested simply to state the
                                facts. The upper  part of his
                                county (Fountain) was within two miles of the county seat of Warren
                                county, and there the people desired to divide. But in the lower
                                part of the county they they were about two-thirds opposed to
                                division. They had been unfortunate in his county-had burnt down two
                                court houses; and they were burdened with the tax for rebuilding.
                                The upper part of the county were a large tax-paying people, and
                                therefore the lower part were unwilling to let them go.

                            Mr. LIGHTNER. There were other counties interested in this bill
                                besides Fountain and Warren. Howard was interested as well; and
                                there was a portion of their territory in controversy at this time;
                                and their people would feel very much aggrieved to be estopped in
                                this summary way. That portion of territory was originally a part of
                                the Miami Reserve; and as soon as the Indian title was extinguished,
                                the people there, then a portion of Clinton county, desired to be
                                included in Howard. They were 20 miles from the county seat of
                                Clinton, (Frankfort,) with a swamp intervening; and they were but 7
                                3/4 from Kokomo, which had become a railroad town, and there they
                                did all their business. They could have no business at Frankfort,
                                except that connected with the county seat. He himself had $380 in
                                costs due to him there, which were not worth the trip to collect
                                to-day. Well, they had availed themselves of the act of 1759, and
                                attached themselves to Howard county. But a portion of this
                                territory (six sections) so attached was still in litigation. In
                                that case the people were deeply interested. They wanted this saving
                                clause.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Whitley, said his constituents were interested in the
                                law remaining as it was enacted in 1857. He thought the law of 1857
                                sufficiently guarded; he earned not for retaining the act of 1859.
                                He referred to the case of advantage which it had worked in
                                attaching a portion of Noble to Whitley.

                            Mr. McCLURG said his county had suffered from this law. He was
                                interested in this question of a saving clause-he referred to the
                                contest about the six sections mentioned toy the gentleman from
                                Howard, by which it shad been attempted to reduce Clinton county
                                below the area of 400 square miles. He was unwilling to lose those
                                sections, and therefore opposed to the saving clause.

                            The bill was then passed the final reading in the House-yeas 73, nays
                                14.

                            Messrs. Mutz, Epperson, Cameron, Orr, Prow, Owens, Robbins,
                                Jenkinson, Ragan, Henricks, and Randall had leave of absence till
                                Monday and Tuesday.

                            On motion by Mr. FRASIER, the order of business was suspended for- 

                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. BUNDY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Kendrick's bill [172] to amend sections 1 and 2 of the
                                Constables' act of May 27,1852, and reported further legislation
                                inexpedient ; and that the bil lie on the table, which was concurred
                                in.

                            Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned Mr. Bryant's bill [132] to amend the 37th section of the
                                Valuation and Assessment act (to admit deduction of intebtedness
                                from personal property), recommending that it be indefinitely
                                postponed, which was concurred in.

                            Mr. JONES of Wayne, returned Mr. Davis's bill [164], to allow the
                                Auditor of State to loan funds derived from estates without heirs,
                                and reported a bill in lieu, entitled, a bill [237] to authorize the
                                Auditor of State to pay all funds from estates without heirs to the
                                Commissioners of the Sinking Fund : which was passed to the second
                                reading.

                            Mr. FISHER returned Mr. Smith of Bartholomew's bill [145] to amend
                                the Assessment, act (it adds a provision for township and special
                                school tax), recommending passage.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. GROVER, from the Committee on Education,
                                returned the joint resolutions [S. 5] proposing to amend article 8
                                of the Constitution so that cities, townships, and towns may have
                                power by taxation to raise additional funds for the support of
                                common schools, with amendments (verbal), recommending its
                                passage.

                            Mr. FISHER was opposed to the resolution. If the proposition embraced
                                the rural districts, I would vote for it most cheerfully.

                            Mr. GROVER. It does.

                            Mr. FISHER. Then I withdraw my opposition.

                            The amendments were concurred in, and the resolution was then
                                passed-yeas 77, nays 13.

                            Mr. GROVER also returned the joint resolution [12] proposing to amend
                                the 23d subdivision of article 4 of the Constitution, so as to
                                enable cities, townships, and towns to raise additional revenue for
                                the support of common schools, recommending passage (the provision
                                occurring twice in the Constitution, it requires a separate
                                resolution to amend in each case).

                            The resolution was passed-yeas 70, nays 16

                            Mr. HOLCOMB returned Mr. Kendrick's bill [10], authorizing the
                                township libraries to loan certain funds, with a motion that it bo
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary; which
                                was agreed to.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG, from the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts, returned his bill [118] to authorize the
                                judges to make certain orders in vacation, recommending passage.
                                [The judges may make orders for the benefit of parties residing in
                                another county, allow depositions to be taken, &c.]

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. PARRETT retunred Mr. Gifford's bill [127] to give the custody of
                                old probate papers to the clerk of common pleas, recommending
                                passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. NEWMAN returned Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bill [101] to repeal two
                                sections of the circuit court adjournment act, with a motion to
                                refer it to the Judiciary Committee, which was
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. McCLURG returned the resolution for non-resident parties litigant
                                to pay $5 docket fee, reporting legislation inexpedient: which
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. BINGHAM returned Mr. Underwood's bill [155] fixing the circuit
                                court in the Thirteenth Circuit, recommending passage: 

                            Also, Mr. Henrick's bill [185] numbering the pleas districts,
                                recommending passage.

                            They were severally ordered to be engrossed :

                            Mr. GROVER (by consent) submitted a resolution, which was adopted,
                                directing the Auditor of State to report to this House the
                                Respective amounts of the following funds, showing when they accrued
                                to the State, and were paid into the Treasury, viz.: funds arising
                                from Estates without Heirs; Military fund; Surplus Revenue Fund;
                                Bank Tax fund; and the fund arising from the proceeds of animals
                                running at large.

                            Mr. PROSSER, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, reeturned Mr. Woods's bill [179] relative
                                to estrays. &c., with a motion to lay it on the table.

                            Mr. WOODS said the bill was merely to simplify the estray laws, so
                                that estrays could be taken up and recorded in the Clerk's office,
                                where the owner could be sure to find, in five days after taking up,
                                a description of his property. He desired to avoid all that
                                expensive programme of appraisement and advertisement. He moved to
                                recommit the bill.

                            Mr. Prosser and Mr. Parrett opposed ; but the motion was agreed to,
                                and the bill recommitted. 

                            On motion by Mr. PACKARD, Mr. Heffren's Public Printing bill [17]-the
                                special order for this day was postponed till Thursday 10
                                o'clock.

                            Mr. ORR, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Black's bill [157] to repeal
                                district and State boards of equalization, reporting legislation
                                inexpedient.

                            Also the petition of H. McDice for amendment of the road laws, so as
                                to admit land owners to change highways on their own land at their
                                own expense, &c., with a motion to lay it on the table.

                            Also Mr. Williams's promissory note bill [171], reporting legislation
                                inexpedient, &c.

                            Mr. HURD returned Mr. Parrett' s criminal limitation bill [148], with
                                a motion to lay it on the table:

                            These several reports were concurred in.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, from the Committee on
                                    Rights, returned Mr. Bundy's Married Woman's bill,
                                [32] with a motion that it belaid on the table.

                            On the motion of Mr. BUNDY, by amendment of the report, it was
                                referred to the Judiciary.

                        
                        

                        
                            SURVEYORS' BILLS.

                             Mr. FRASIER from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's
                                Surveyors' bills, [145, 150] with the opinion of a majority that
                                they will systematize the surveying of the State. The Committee
                                learn that they are the result of the deliberations of a Convention
                                of Surveyors. They propose a Surveyor General of the State, (without
                                salary) for appeals, and to secure uniformity of action. They
                                propose to legalize acts in subdividing lands, determining
                                boundaries, making records, &c., rsquiring standard measures,
                                true meridians, &c.; and providing penalties for negligence,
                                &c. The Committee recommend the pasaage of both bills.

                            Mr. F. said those who had investigated, knew that there was almost a
                                total want of regulations governing the subject of surveying in this
                                State. The statutes simply prescribed regulations for county
                                surveyors-for filing their bonds, and a few items in regard to their
                                fees. There was nothing in the way of rules to govern them, and very
                                little in the legislation of Congress on the subject.

                            Mr. PARRETT suggested a question whether it was competent for the
                                State to legislate at all on the subject.

                            Mr. FRASIER was not aware of any constitutional obstacle-did not know
                                why the State should not regulate the surveys of her own lands; of
                                course she would not regulate the surveys of the lands of the
                                General Government. He had had occasion frequently to observe this
                                fact; but more especially since he has been in this city, he had
                                been made acquainted with the confusion of surveys as amongst the
                                different counties. There was a perfect Babel with regard to the
                                rules observed amongst the county surveyors; they followed rules for
                                which no reason could be given, only that it had been the practice.
                                One surveyor will use a chain of 66 feet, and another will use a
                                chain of two poles length. And in the deeds the line is described as
                                running so many chains, &c., when really they are but half
                                chains, and when the real truth of the case gives the holder double
                                the amount of land described. Hence the necessity for a system, and
                                especially in the subdivisions of sections; in the length of chains;
                                in the variations of the needle, requiring the establishment of a
                                true meridian in every county, by which the surveyor shall be
                                governed in his bearings. There was no reason that there should be
                                variations of a degree or more in the direction of the lines in two
                                adjoining counties, which must be the case, more or less, so long as
                                these things are suffered to remain as they are-lying round
                                looseevery surveyor operating on his own hook. Herein consisted the
                                necessity for a surveyor-general. In this system, ho would be
                                required to render his public services as director of the county
                                surveyors, without any compensation-the bill providing him simply fees, which he will not
                                get if he does not work. It allows him $6 a day and mileage, for
                                running county and township lines. He gave an example of a
                                disagreement of five rods in the lines along the boundary of
                                Tippecanoe county, which had to be compromised. All such
                                difficulties would be avoided, or more readily and satisfactorily
                                settled, by reference to the head of the department of surveying.
                                Another reason why there should be such an officer was found in the
                                unsatisfactory condition of the original field-note in the office of
                                the Auditor of State. It was not to be expected that we could always
                                have a State Auditor who shall be also a surveyor. Some of these
                                field-notes were not full. In some townships they were defective,
                                and in some there were none. The proposed system provides that these
                                field-notes shall be placed in the hands of an experienced lawyer,
                                who shall be able to see what, additions are necessary, and be
                                required to keep them in such condition that whenever the people of
                                the State desire to refer to them they can do so; and certain fees
                                are provided for this service. He was satisfied that we needed a
                                Surveyor General more than we needed an Agent of State; and this
                                bill provides for one, with no other expense beyond simply
                                furnishing him an office for his papers. 

                            Mr. WOODHULL showed that the latter bill required that the county
                                surveyor was to be provided with an office.

                            Mr. FISHER called for a division of the question-one bill at a
                                time.

                            Mr. FRASIER. The system depends upon both-one would not be complete
                                without the other. He moved to lay both on the table, and that they
                                be printed.

                            Mr. FISHER was willing to vote for the bill [150] to regulate county
                                surveyors, but not for an additional State officer.

                            The SPEAKER, The question will be first on printing the bill No.
                                149.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. It would be like the creation of the office of Attorney
                                General to save expense. The State now paid more attorney's fees
                                than before.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, would rather reduce than increase the
                                number of State officers.

                            Mr. LANE was satisfied this system would saddle another State officer
                                upon the people. Six dollars a day and mileage, and $10 for platting
                                a township were pretty good fees, these bills were gotten up by a
                                convention of surveyors; and he gave a surveyor's opinion when he
                                said that in the aggregate the fees were increased 30 per cent.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB moved to lay the motion to print on the table.

                            Mr. FRASIER desired to explain, but Mr. H refused to withdraw the
                                motion.

                            The motion to print was laid on the table, and then-

                            On motion of Mr. FRASIER, his motion to print the bill, No. 150, was
                                also laid on the table.

                            On motion of Mr. CRAIN, the two bills were laid on the table. 

                            Mr. PROSSER moved to reconsider this vote and to lay the same motion
                                on the table. The latter motion was agreed to. 

                        
                        

                        
                            EXPENSES OF THE LEGISLATURE.

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, (by unanimous consent) his engrossed bill
                                [190] to provide ($30,000) for the expenses of the present
                                Legislature, was taken up and passed the final reading-yeas 82, nays
                                2.

                            The House then adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            SATURDAY, February 16,1861
                        

                        On motion by Mr. LINE, the reading of yesterday's journal was dispensed
                            with.

                        Leave of absence was obtained for Sir Williams till Monday, and Mr.
                            Newcomb till Tuesday.

                        Mr. HAMILTON presented two petitions, praying the Legislature to instruct
                            our Congressmen and State Commissioners to adjust the National troubles
                            on a basis similar to the Crittenden proposition; which was referred to
                            the Committee on Federal Relations.

                        Mr. TEEGARDEN presented a petition from citizens of the city of Laporte,
                            praying for some law greatly reducing the municipal expenses of small
                            cities. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE

                            Were made, returning the following bills, with the recommendations
                                severally named:

                            By Mr. MILLER: His bill 88-described on page 105 of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS-passage with amendments. Also:
                                a memorial from the Commissioners of St, Joseph county, and a
                                remonstrance from the brothers of the University of Notre Dame du
                                Lac, in said county, recommending that they lie on the table; and
                                reporting a bill [S. 186] To amend sec. 6 of the assessment act of
                                June 21, 1852, so as to reduce the amount of land exempt from
                                taxation belonging to manual labor schools from 320 to 160 acres;
                                which was passed the first reading, without objection.

                            By Mr. MARCH: Senator O'Brien's 113-see page 163 of these
                                Reports-passage with amendments. 

                        
                        

                        
                            FROM THE COMMITTEE ON ORGANIZATION OF
                                COURTS.

                            
                                 By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Senator O'Brien's 91-see page 122 of these
                                    Reports-passage with amendments.

                                By Mr. COBB: His bill 93-time of holding common pleas courts
                                    in Jackson county-passage.

                                By Mr. DICKINSON: His bill 151-see page 194-lie on the table.
                                    Also: His bill 152common pleas jury passage with
                                    amendment.

                                >By Mr. CONNER: Senator Newcomb's 136-see page 184 of these
                                    Reports-passage with amendment. 
                            

                            Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned a resolution relating to the purchase of Dr. Owen's
                                Cabinet, reporting that, owing to the very embarrassed condition of
                                the finances of the State, they deem it unnecessary to legislate
                                upon the subject.

                            Which reports were severally concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the first
                                reading : 

                            

                            By Mr. CONNER: [187] To repeal an act providing for extending the
                                terms of Circuit Courts, &c., approved February 12, 1855; and
                                the act amending section 1 of said act, approved December 24,
                                1858.

                            By Mr. DEHART: [188] To amend sec. 9 of an act providing for the
                                appointment of notaries public, approved June 9, 1852; by giving
                                them the same powers conferred upon justices of the peace in certain
                                cases. (To try and determine such suits as are founded on contract
                                or tort, when the debt or damages does not, exceed $300. May confess
                                judgment before them in any sum not exceeding $400. Suits may be
                                instituted before them.)

                            By Mr. MURRAY : [189] To repeal all laws making appropriations in aid
                                of the colonization of negroes and mulattoes of this or other
                                States.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN declared this bill unconstitutional, and made an
                                ineffectual motion to reject it.

                            By Mr. MARCH: [190] To amend section 1 Of an act concerning the
                                interest on money, approved May 27, 1852; so as to declare usurious
                                all greater profits than would be realised from discounting notes or
                                bills of exchange made payable in this State.

                            By Mr. MELLETT: [191] To create the seventh judicial circuit of the
                                State of Indiana.

                            By Mr. HULL: [192] To provide for a change in width of State roads. 

                        
                        

                        
                            DELINQUENT TAX LISTS.

                            Mr. BEARSS offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Judiciary
                                                Committee be instructed to inquire into
                                            the expediency of fixing by law a uniform price for
                                            publishing the delinquent tax lists of the several
                                            counties of this State: also, to require greater
                                            accuracy in the description of lands advertised, and
                                            that they report by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Which was adopted by consent. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AID FOR THE SUFFERING IN KANSAS.

                            Mr. CONLEY offered the following :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        WHEREAS, it is represented that a
                                            large portion of northwestern Missouri and parts of the
                                            State of Kansas have been affected by drought; and
                                            whereas it is represented that vegetation is almost
                                            totally cut off; and whereas, we deem it due to the
                                            generosity of the great State of Indiana to give aid to
                                            suffering humanity; therefore-

                                        Be it Resolved, That the sum of $10,000
                                            be appropriated out of the State Treasury for the relief
                                            of our fellow-countrymen in the States of Missouri and
                                            Kansas, which sum shall be placed in the hands of
                                            trustees for distribution, as they may think the wants
                                            of citizens may need such relief.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was referred to the Finance Committee. 

                        
                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

                            Announced the passage by that body of the bill [H. R. 190] to provide
                                ($30,000) for the expanses of the present Legislature; also, the
                                concurrence of that body in the joint resolution [S. 12] proposing
                                to amend article 8 of the Constitution, so that cities, townships
                                and towns may have power by taxation to raise additional funds for
                                the support of common schools. 

                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            Senate bills were read the second time, and referred to Committees as
                                follows:

                            The Judiciary Committee's 166, and Mr. Cobb's
                                183-rules suspended, and read by title only-were ordered
                                engrossed.

                            Messrs. O'Brien's 179, 181, Cobb's' 184, Ray's 185-were referred to
                                the Judiciary Committee.

                            Mr. Slack's
                                    180-Corporations:-182-Finance. 

                        
                        

                        
                            EXPENSES OF THE LEGISLATURE.

                            The bill [H. R. 190] To provide ($30,000.) for the expenses of the
                                present Legislature, was taken up and read the first time. 

                        
                        

                        
                            OLD LOCAL LAWS.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN offered a joint resolution [S. 14] directing that the
                                Sec. of State shall employ some competent person to index the local
                                laws of this State from 1830, to the formation of the new
                                Constitution in 1838, and have the same printed for the use of the
                                General Assembly of the State; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Finance. 

                        
                        

                        
                            DUELLING BY ASSEMBLYMEN.

                            Mr. CONLEY offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Judiciary be instructed to inquire
                                            into the expediency of so amending the law for the
                                            prevention of duelling in this State as to expel any
                                            member of the State Legislature who shall give or accept
                                            a challenge to fight a duel, and after giving or
                                            accepting of such challenge, shall suffer himeslf or
                                            themselves to be arrested; or shall in any manner
                                            countenance any obstruction to such fight; or in any
                                            case either of the parties back down from such fight for
                                            any cause whatever, he shall be sentenced to the
                                            Northern State Prison for a term of years, to be fixed
                                            by this Legislature, Provided, however, that if such
                                            parties shall fight, they shall in no wise be amenable
                                            to law; and said Committee is requested to report by
                                            bill or otherwise as soon as it is convenient for them
                                            to do so, as the law in relation to duelling is deemed
                                            inefficient to prevent that desperate mode of adjusting
                                            difficulties between members of the Legislature.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was laid en the table.


                            [Mr. LINE offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                authorizing a Committee [Senators Line, Conner and Turner] to
                                inquire whether there may not be a more convenient arrangement of
                                the desks of Senators.] 

                        
                        

                        
                            INTEREST ON MONEY.

                            Mr. LANDERS offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee on Banks
                                            be required to examine the law on the subject of
                                            interest, and report to the Senate by what law banks are
                                            allowed to take the enormous rate of interest they now
                                            take; and if they find the law gives to incorporations
                                            privileges denied to private individuals, they are
                                            required to introduce a bill to repeal the same, so that
                                            all persons may have the same right.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent. 

                        
                        

                        
                            BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.

                            Mr. MILLER offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be
                                            directed to contract with ARIEL & W.
                                                H. DRAPIER for 600 copies of their Brevier
                                            Reports of the Proceedings and Debates of the present
                                            session of the General Assembly-one copy to be laid on
                                            the desk of each member of the Senate as printed, and
                                            the remainder to be bound and distributed as the Laws
                                            and Journals-Provided the said
                                            reports, except the binding, shall not cost more than
                                            one dollar per copy.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            

                            Which was referred to the Committee on Finance. 

                        
                        

                        
                            GUARDIANS AND ADMINISTRATORS.

                            Mr. MURRAY offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Judiciary inquire into the
                                            expediency of so amending the law on that subject as
                                            that petitions for the removal of guardians and
                                            administrators shall be entitled to an appeal from the
                                            court of common pleas the same as in all other appeal
                                            cases.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent. 

                        
                        

                        
                            LIQUIDATION OF THE STATE DEBT.

                            Mr. LOMAX offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, by the Senate (the House
                                            concurring,) That a joint committee of three on the part
                                            of the Senate and five on the part of the House be
                                            raised to consider as to the propriety of reporting a
                                            bill to provide for the gradual and certain liquidation
                                            of the State debt within a reasonable time.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent, and the Senate committee is made to
                                consist of Messrs. Lomax, Wagner and Mellett. 

                        
                        

                        
                            OYSTERS ALL AROUND.

                            Mr. Claypool offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That if any Senator does not
                                            hereafter offer a resolution when the same is in order,
                                            he shall be declared to be in contempt of the Senate,
                                            and be required to furnish oysters for members and
                                            officers of the Senate. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was laid on the table. 

                        
                        

                        
                            THE COLONIZATION FUND.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Auditor of State be
                                            requested to report to the Senate the amount of warrants
                                            issued on the Colonization Fund since the passage of the
                                            act providing for the colonization of negroes and
                                            mulattoes, approved April 28, 1852, and for what
                                            purposes the expenditures have been made; distinguishing
                                            between the expenditures for transporting negroes and
                                            mulattoes out of the State and other expenditures.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent. 

                        
                        

                        
                            THE UNIVERSITY AND THE SINKING FUND.

                            Mr. JOHNSON offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            WHEREAS, It is understood that the
                                            State University Fund is indebted to the Sinking Fund;
                                            and WHEREAS the State University Fund
                                            has large amounts of moneys loaned on mortgage,
                                            therefore-

                                        Be it Resolved, That the
                                                Committee on Education be
                                            instructed to inquire into the expediency of the passage
                                            of some law by which said mortgages may be transferred
                                            to the Sinking Fund Commissioners in payment of said
                                            debt; and report by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent. 

                        
                        

                        
                            LIMIT TO SPEECHES.

                            Mr. BEESON offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That no member of the Senate
                                            be allowed to speak upon any subject longer than twenty
                                            minutes.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Which was adopted. 

                        
                        

                        
                            PUBLISH THE LAWS IN EACH COUNTY.

                            Mr. TURNER offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Public Printing be instructed to
                                            inquire into the propriety of having the laws published
                                            in one weekly newspaper in each county where one is
                                            printed.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Which was adopted by consent. 

                        
                        

                        
                            JURISDICTION OVER HIGHWAYS.

                            Mr. MURRAY offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on County and Township Business inquire
                                            into the expediency of reporting a bill transferring the
                                            location, vacation or change of highways within the
                                            respective townships from the Board of County
                                            Commissioners to the township trustees.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent. 

                        
                        

                        
                            COUNTY ASSESSOR.

                            Mr. MILLER offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on County and Township Business inquire
                                            into the expediency of abolishing the office of township
                                            assessor, and creating the office of county assessor as
                                            it existed prior to the passage present laws, and report
                                            by bill or otherwise.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            SATURDAY, February 16, 1861.
                        

                         Mr. KITCHEN desired, but failed to obtain leave to submit a resolution
                            directing the Committee on the Affairs of the town of
                                Indianapolis to inquire of the Board of Health as to the
                            extent to which the small pox is prevailing at this time in the city.
                            [Laughter]

                        Mr. KENDRICK. The small pox really is in the city.

                        Mr. COLLINS, of Whitley, presented a resolution of the 10th District
                            Agricultural Society-T. G. Nelson, president-memoralizing the
                            Legislature for a tax on dogs. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned Mr. Brucker's alien land bill [64,] with an
                                amendment, striking out all after the enacting clause, and inserting
                                provisions to the effect. That it shall be lawful for non-resident
                                aliens to acquire, inherit, hold and convey real estate to the same
                                as though they were citizens of the United States for the term of
                                eight years from and after the acquisition, at the final settlement
                                of the estate from which it is derived ; and in case the alien is a
                                minor, it shall be held in trust for such minor. 2. If such alien
                                die before the expiration of the said term of eight years, then his
                                heirs shall hold and enjoy his rights so acquired, if they also be
                                non-residents and aliens; but if citizens of the United States they
                                shall hold as though their ancestor had been a citizen, &c.; and
                                so amended the committee recommend passage.

                            The report was concurred in, and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            Mr. VEATCH returned the bill [S. 7,] supplemental to the act of May
                                G, 1852, concerning real property and the alienation thereof,
                                recommending passage.

                            It was ordered to the third reading.

                            He also returned Mr. Stot en berg's fugitive biil [187], with a
                                recommendation that it be laid on the table. The report admits that
                                the bill contains many good provisions. It it almost an exact copy
                                of the statute in the Revised, page 1030. But the first section is
                                objectionable-giving power to the justice of the peace, &c.,
                                upon complaint, charging a person with crime, to cause such person
                                to be arrested; and upon a mere preliminary examination to order
                                such person to be conveyed out of the State, and removed to the
                                State or territory from which
                                it is alleged he has fled. Such power should never be exercised but
                                with the greatest caution, &c. But a graver objection in a legal
                                point of view is, that it is clearly and manifestly in conflict with
                                the the Constitution United States, which leaves the power of
                                regulating arrests of fugitives labor or from justice as amongst the
                                several States exclusively with Congress. [2d Ind. Reps p. 396, and
                                the Prigg case, 16th Peters, p. 539.] &c.,
                                &c.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG moved that the report be referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen on the State of the
                                Union. He was only sorry that the Judiciary
                                    Committee had not spent as much time and labor in
                                developing and combining the good parts of the bill, as they in
                                exposing the parts objectionable. The gave the right of examination
                                before proper tribunals, provided for testimony, and some way of
                                getting fees-very much improving the present law in these respects
                                It proposed nothing about fugitives from labor.

                            Mr. VEATCH. The committee did not think it any part of their duty to
                                take up the subject and make a new bill.

                            Mr. BUNDY. It would deprive any person his liberty against whom there
                                might be rought a frivolous charge.

                            The report was concurred in, and accordingly the bill was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. WOODHULL returned Mr. Grover's bill [191] to amend sections 176
                                and 190 of the practice act, with an amendment striking but that
                                which refers to section 190.The amendment was concurred in, and then
                                the bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bill [168] authorizing
                                suits for alimony in certain cases, with a motion to lay it on the
                                table; which was concurred in.

                            He also returned Mr. Roberts' Promissory Note bill [167],
                                recommending passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. VEATCH returned Mr. Atkisson's Surviving Partners' bill [98],
                                recommending indefinite postponement. The committee say, its iffect
                                would be to tie up large amounts of property to the slow processes
                                of administration ; but to meet one of its objects, they recommend a
                                bill, numbered 238, entitled, A bill supplemental to the act of
                                March 5. 1859, to require surviving partners to file inventories
                                appraisements, and affidavits with the Clerk of the Court of Common
                                Pleas. 

                            The report was concurred in, and the new bill was passed to the
                                second reading.

                            Mr. WOODHULL returned the committee bill [161] to amend the 11th
                                section of the Treasury system act of 1859, with a motion to lay it
                                on the table :

                            Mr. BINGHAM returned Mr. Moss' bill [177], to regulate the remission
                                of fines and forfeitures, with the same motion:

                            These reports were concurred in. 

                            Mr. CASON returned Mr. Wells' slackwater navigation bill [188],
                                recommending passage. 

                            It was ordered engrossed. 

                            Mr. VEATH returned Mr. Parrett's salary bill [42], with a statement
                                in writing that the sections (1 and 2) proposed to be amended fire
                                very long and incorrectly recited in the bill. The only change
                                proposed is to reduce the salaries of the Circuit Prosecutors, and
                                provide a salary of $300 a year for the District, Attorney. They
                                reason against the reduction, and recommend that the bill be laid on
                                the table, and give place for a substitute.

                            Mr. PARRETT did not see any necessity for a new bill. The force of
                                the objections of the report was confined to the reduction of $200
                                in the salary of the Circuit Prosecutor. Criminal matters now nearly
                                all go to the Common Pleas, and that part of the duty of the Circuit
                                Prosecutor was performed by the District Attorney. And the Circuit
                                Prosecutor hncl fees in divorce cases, which the District Attorney
                                did not get. Five hundred dollars a piece would be too much. The
                                change he desired could not be made without the formality in his
                                bill. He moved to re-commit.

                            Mr. PROSSER hoped the motion would not prevail. The salary of the
                                Circuit Prosecutors was not sufficient now. He would rather give
                                them $200 more than take one dollar from their salary. We have in
                                general inefficient prosecutors-young men of little inexperience;
                                and the reason was the insufficiency of the salary. They were unable
                                to conduct important criminal cases. 

                            Mr. PARRETT. Is not the largest part of the criminal business thrown
                                upon the District Prosecutor?

                            Mr PROSSER. And the fees also.

                            Mr. PARRETT. Have not the Circuit Prosecutors the same fees?

                            Mr. PROSSER. They have. But in many cases the District Prosecutor
                                makes more out of the minor prosecutions than the Circuit Prosecutor
                                with his salary. People in his part of the State have to put their
                                hands into their own pockets and hire help in criminal cases.

                            Mr. FISHER concurred generally in Mr. Prosser's remarks. The State
                                would be the gainer by paying the judge's salary to the Circuit
                                Prosecutor. He recited a case which had cost the State $500 in extra
                                fees. Throwing the business into the Common Please did not change
                                the case. Reduction of these salaries would work injury. He moved to
                                lay the motion to re-commit on the table, which was lost, no quorum
                                voting.

                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to amend Mr. Parrett's motion, by adding
                                instructions to inquire into the expediency of raising the salary of
                                the Circuit Prosecutors to $700, and giving the District Prosecutors
                                $300.

                            Mr. PARRETT'S motion, thus amended, was agreed to by consent.

                            Mr. McLEAN obtained leave to introduce a biil [139], to amend the 6th
                                section of the assessment
                                act(exempting certain public property from taxation): which was
                                passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. COLLINS of Adams, obtained leave to submit a resolution, which
                                was adopted, instructing the Judiciary Committee to inquire and
                                report on the question, as to who are entitled to the benefit of our
                                common schools.

                            Mr. McLEAN, Mr. COLLINS of Whitley, Mr. KNOWLTON, and Mr HOLCOMB were
                                successively refused leave to offer propositions out of order.

                            Mr. Anderson's highway bill [193] was passed the second reading, and
                                referred to the Committee on Roads.

                            On motion of Mr. KNOWLTON, Mr. Bundy's Salary bill [143] was taken up
                                and referred to a Select Committee, viz., Messrs. Knowlton, Veatch,
                                and Edson.

                            Mr. Kendrick's Governor's House bill [194] and Mr. Fordyce's Sinking
                                Fund bill [200], were referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means.

                            Mr. Lane's Railroad Incorporation bill [195] coming up(Mr. L. stated
                                that the only change of the act of 1852 proposed is to extend the
                                limitation of railroad charters to 20 years instead of 10 years.
                                They had a road in which a vast, amount of money had been expended,
                                and the charter of that road would expire before the meeting of the
                                next Legislature)and Mr. Hopkins' Courts of Conciliation bill [15]
                                were ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. Burgess' bill [196], giving clerks probate jurisdiction ; Mr.
                                Williams' bill [222], for the organization of Life Insurance
                                Companies ; Mr. Thompson's bill [199](he said it made agricultural
                                societies joint stock companies, and extended their right to hold
                                land from 20 acres to 80 acres)these bills were severally referred
                                to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg's bill [197]-Recorders to issue marriage licenses-was
                                laid on the table. 

                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, the House proceeded to the consideration of
                                bills on the second reading.

                            The Senate bill [S. 74] to amend the 4th (prairie lien) section of
                                the Game laws, coming up on the second reading-

                            Mr. MOODY proposed to strike out "February" and "September," and
                                insert "March" and "August."

                            Mr. KNOWLTON proposed to amend by way of a new bill not read.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB also proposed an amendment not read.

                            On motion of Mr. McLEAN, the bill and amendments were referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights and Privileges.The bill
                                [S. 49] to provide for struck juries, &c., coming up-

                            Mr. FRASlER proposed (out of order) the word "moon" before the word
                                "struck."

                            The bill was read the second time, and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Parrett's bill [201] to create the 17th Judicial Circuit,
                                &c., was read the second time, and referred to the Committee on
                                the Organization of Courts.

                            Mr. Knowlton's mechanics' lien bill [202] to amend section 650, art.
                                6, of the practice act, was considered and referred to the
                                    Committee on Corporations.

                            Mr. KNOWLTON asked and obtained to introduce a bill [240] to fix the
                                time of holding the courts of the 10th circuit, and to provide for
                                adjourned terms-counties of Grant, Wabash, Huntington, Miami, Cass
                                and Carroll.] It was passed to the second reading; and, under a
                                suspension of the rules, it was read the second time, and referred
                                to the Committee on Organization of Courts of
                                    Justice-together with-

                            Mr. FISHER'S amendment, "Provided that neither the Judge nor
                                Prosecuting Attorney shall receive any extra compensation for
                                holding such adjourned and special terms." 

                        
                        

                        
                            AGENT OF STATE.

                            Mr. McLEAN asked leave to introduce a concurrent resolution for a
                                committee (three on the part of the House) to examine the books,
                                papers, bonds, stocks. &c., in the office of Agent of State in
                                Wall street, New York, and report whether the interests of the State
                                require additional safeguards to be around said office; and that the
                                Governor make such allowance for the service as he may think proper,
                                &c.

                            Mr. NEBEKER objected. There was a resolution on that subject. 

                        
                        

                        
                            RAILROAD VALUATIONS.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Auditor of
                                State responding to a resolution of the 28th of January, for
                                information in regard to the reduction of value in the assessment of
                                railroads The Michigan Central has been reduced to $9,000 per mile;
                                the Michigan Southern and Northern Indiana to $8,000; the Pittsburg,
                                Ft. Wayne and Chicago 7,000; the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago
                                $750; Cincinnati, Peru and Chicago $1,500; Jeffersonvilie $3,000;
                                Madisonviile and Indianapolis $4,000.

                            It was referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                Means. 

                        
                        

                        
                            GIBSON COUNTY SWAMPLANDS.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB asked, but was refused leave, to submit a resolution
                                directing the State Auditor to report the amount of swamp land funds
                                received and placed to the credit of Gibson county-the amount paid
                                out-to whom and for what purpose.

                            The SPEAKER announced Mr. Bingham as Chairman of the Committee to
                                consider Mr. Fisher's resolution for the expulsion of Messrs. Moody
                                and Heffren-Mr. Veatch having been excused on account of personal
                                considerations.

                            The House then adjourned till Monday o'clock p. m. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            MONDAY, February 18,1861.
                        

                        On motion of Mr. MURRAY, the reading of Saturday's journal was dispensed
                            with. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE

                            Were made, returning the following bills, with the recommendations
                                severally named :

                            
                                By Mr. MARCH: His bill 157, amending sections 1, 11, and 12 of
                                    the exemption act of 1852-passage.
                                By Mr. CONNER: His bill 101 concerning auditor's tax
                                    deed-passage with amendments.
                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Senator Dehart's bill, 163, to amend sec. 467
                                    of the Practice Act-passage.
                                Mr. DEHART, from the Committee on Printing,
                                    returned Senator Wagner's bill, 172, recommending
                                    passage.
                            

                            Which reports were severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, &C.

                            By Mr. CARNAHAN: Praying that members of the Legislature may be
                                required to put their names upon the record on the bill providing
                                for the payment of losses sustained by sheep-killing dogs; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Agriculture.

                            By Mr. HAMILTON: which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Federal Relations without reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SESSION HOURS.

                            Mr. MURRAY offered the following :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the rule upon the
                                            meeting and adjournment of the Senate be so changed as
                                            to require two sessions as formerly, to take effect from
                                            and after to-morrow, at 2 o'clock.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            
                            Which was adopted by yeas 24, nays 12.

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the first
                                reading :

                            By Mr. WHITE: [198] making thirty days immediately preceding the
                                meeting of county boards sufficient notice of the location,
                                vacation, or change of highways.

                            By Mr. STONE: [194] empowering county boards to employ competent
                                persons at any time, to investigate the books, vouchers, accounts,
                                &c., of County Auditors and Treasurers.

                            By Mr. CARNAHAN: [195] To secure the collection of rent in certain
                                cases, and to enable persons of small means to rent lands without
                                giving personal or other security therefor.

                            By Mr. WILSON: [196] To amend section 6 of an act concerning interest
                                on money, approved May 27, 1852.

                            By Mr. MILLER: [197] To exempt from taxation for corporation
                                purposes, personal estates under the control of guardians in certain
                                oases. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONGRESSIONAL RE-DISTRICTING OF THE STATE.

                            The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate an official statement of the
                                population of Indiana, under the 8th census.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, it was referred to a joint Committee of five
                                on the part of the Senate, and six on the part of the House, to be
                                appointed by the presiding officers thereof after consultation, so
                                that one committee man may be chosen from each district. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

                            Announced the passage by that body of the joint resolutions, S. 6-see
                                pages 68 and 158 ; also, the passage of the bill [H. R. 89] to
                                authorize the formation of new counties, and repealing all laws
                                inconsistent therewith. 
                        
                        

                        
                            BANKS AND BANKING.

                            Mr. Claypool's bill 86-see pages 86,150,219 of these reports-being
                                read the third time-Mr. C. explained his bill, as heretofore.

                            Was finally passed by yeas 86, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JASPER AND NEWTON COUNTIES.

                            On motion by Mr. TURNER, the bill [H. R. 119] concerning the tax
                                duplicate of Newton county, being read the third time.

                            Mr. TURNER explained its provisions.

                            Was finally passed by yeas 40, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATIONERY AND POSTAGE FOR MEMBERS; AND AN
                                OFFICIAL REPORTER FOR EACH HOUSE.

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, his bill [S. 55] providing for stationery
                                and postage [$20] for members of the Legislature, for the employment
                                of reporters, and the publication of its proceedings in certain
                                newspapers was taken from the table.

                            Mr. CONLEY explained its provisions.

                            Mr. BEESON mode an ineffectual motion to recommit to the
                                    Committee on Finance, by striking out "$10"
                                (each of stationery and postage), and insert "$5."

                            Mr. MURRAY. This bill provides that our reports shall be the same as
                                are now published in the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                    REPORTS, and I undertake to say that you cannot get a
                                single paper in this city to publish these reports in full. Now,
                                what condition will the Legislalature be in ? We will hire
                                Reporters, and then we have got to pay printers for publishing their
                                reports. Look over the Sentinel, at the reports
                                made up by the gentlemen who are engaged in making up these BREVIER REPORTS, and you will see they are cut
                                down nearly one-half you read along, and every once in a while you
                                see a paragraph to this effect: "After proceedings, which are
                                crowded out;" or "further proceedings will appear in the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS." The Sentinel is unable to find room for these reports; but we
                                take, three of these papers-all we propose to take if we hire our
                                own Reporters-and still the Sentinel curtails
                                these reports one-third, or nearly one-half. It does seem to me that
                                is a bad arrangement, and we would have to go to the double expense
                                of hiring printers after hiring Reporters. Another thing: I think
                                $10 is putting it on pretty steep for postage stamps, and $10 for
                                stationery ; that makes $20, in addition to the pay we all have,
                                which is an indirect way of raising our wages.

                            Mr. MARCH. $10 seems to me to be an extravagant amount for
                                stationery. If we propose to raise our wages, I would prefer to do
                                it open  and above board. I
                                move to recommit with the following instructions: strike out "$10,"
                                and insert "$5," so far as it refers to stationery.

                            Mr. CONLEY. These reports are very full, and this bill provides the
                                papers cannot be taken unless the reports are printed in full. If
                                the papers do not so publish them, we are under no obligation to
                                take them. It would reduce the number of papers usually taken by the
                                Legislature.

                            Mr. MURRAY [interrupting.] What is the use of hiring Reporters if our
                                proceedings are not to be published?

                            Mr. CONLEY. I understand the two leading journals of this city will
                                publish them-their subscribers will demand it of them.

                            Mr. MURRAY moved as additional instructions to strike out "$10" and
                                insert "$6."

                            Mr. BLAIR moved as additional instructions to strike out all that
                                relates to the publication of the proceedings of the Legislature and
                                the taking of Daily papers.

                            The motion to refer was agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PURE BEER, WINE OR CIDER.

                            Mr. LINE'S bill 8see page 25 of these reports-being read the third
                                time-

                            Mr. L. said: The only amendment to the law of 1859 is that this bill
                                simply permits persons to sell unadulterated beer, native wine and
                                cider without license.

                            Mr. RAY. I am opposed to the bill because our present law is bad
                                enough and it would be unjust to the whisky sellers that have paid
                                for their license to plant hundreds of little lager beer and
                                adulterated wine saloons around them, to debauch the community still
                                worse than it now is. Whisky shops are bad enough when held under
                                strict responsibility, but when you give a loose rein to whisky
                                shops under such a bill as this, you might as well abolish all law,
                                and give them a free right to the track.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I coincide with the remarks made by the gentleman from
                                Shelby, [Mr. Ray.] We have a law which is satisfactory to the
                                people. I move, as a test now of the sense of the Senate, to
                                re-commit, with instructions to amend by providing that a license
                                may be granted for the sale of pure beer, wine and cider, for half
                                the price now charged.

                            Mr. LINE. I hope the Senate will not consent to refer the bill, but
                                will take the question fairly upon it as it is.

                            On motion by Mr. LANDERS, the bill and pending instructions were laid
                                on the table by yeas 26, nays 10.

                            [Leave of absence was obtained for Mr. Mellett during the week.]

                            [Mr. Wilson's bill 17-see page 3O of these Reports-being read the
                                third time, Mr. MARCH called attention to the fact that this bill
                                was laid upon the table in accordance with a recommendation of the
                                    Judiciary Committee[see page 193 of these
                                Reports.] The Secretary's record being against him, on his motion
                                the bill was laid on the table.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            WHO MAY ADMINISTER OATHS GENERALLY

                            Mr. Dickinson's bill 25-see page 30 of these Reports-coming up-

                            On Mr. D.'s motion, by unanimous consent, notaries public were
                                included in the bill. 

                            It was finally passed by yeas 38, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PRIVATE ROADS

                            Senator Miller's bill 36-see page 66 of these Reports-being read the
                                third time-

                            Mr. MILLER. There is no law on the statute book allowing a person to
                                have a private road through another's land, and this bill provides a
                                way.

                            Was finally passed by yeas 36, nays 3. 
                        
                        

                        
                            DOCKET BOOKS FOR JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.

                            A Select Committee's bill, 38-see page 46 of these Reports-being read
                                the third time-

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. This bill tends in a small way to create a large
                                expense. It will take $150 out of the county treasury every year or
                                two. We have had no difficulty or complaint from justices in
                                reference to their books. If their business will not justify a
                                docket, they had better resign.

                            Mr. LINE. The Select Committee drew up that bill in compliance with a
                                petition. Why do you ask justices of the peace to get their own
                                dockets, when you furnish every other class of county officers with
                                their books? The justice receives poor compensation, and he renders
                                a great deal of service to the State, for which he gets no pay at
                                all. It seems to me as a matter of right to justices, that the
                                people of the State of Indiana should furnish their dockets. It is
                                public property, and he must surrender it when he goes out of
                                office.

                            Was passed by yeas 26, nays 14. 
                        
                        

                        
                            TO PREVENT ILLEGAL VOTING.

                            Mr. Landers' bill 46-see page 69 of these Reports-being read the
                                third time-

                            Mr. LANDERS. Senators will see the penalty is increased in this bill
                                for the violation of the election laws. Under the old law the
                                penalty was not sufficient to prevent illegal voting. I am satisfied
                                this bill will tend, to a great extent, to preserve the purity of
                                the ballot box.

                            Was finally passed by yeas 38, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STOCK KILLED BY RAILROADS.

                            Mr. Craven's bill 48-see page 69 of these Reports-being read the
                                third time-

                            Mr. HULL moved to recommit, with instructions that the
                                    Committee on Corporations so amend the bill
                                as to provide for reciprocal responsibility in maintaining the
                                fences along railroads where the same may run through farms, to be
                                built by the railroads ; railroads shall not be held responsible for
                                the killing of stock at the crossings of public highways, nor except
                                in cases of negligence on their part; but if by the carelessness of
                                farmers, the road is to pay one-half the assessed value of the  stock so killed-and if payment
                                be delayed beyond thirty days, then the full value.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage of the bill [H. R.
                                5], limiting the power of County Commissioners in the assessment and
                                collection of taxes.]

                            Mr. HULL. I hope the bill will be recommitted, that both parties may
                                be made reciprocally responsible. If a railroad company should build
                                good fences, they would not remain so unless the farmers were partly
                                ressponsible for keeping them up. It is my desire that justice
                                should be done to both parties. A portion of these instructions are
                                substantially such as are proposed by the Ohio and Mississippi
                                Railroad Co.

                            Mr. SHIELDS. The amendment is wholly inoperative, I think, in every
                                particular; and the bill is insufficient to make the regulations the
                                people demand.

                            Mr. CONNER moved to amend the amendment (though opposed to the
                                instructions even after being so amended), by striking out all that
                                part that requires owners of lands adjoining railroads to aid in
                                fencing the road or maintaining the fence.

                            Mr. HULL accepted the amendment.

                            Mr. RAY. The bill as reported ought to pass. It is desired to remedy
                                what is supposed to be a weakness in the present law.

                            Mr. MURRAY. I am in favor of striking from the bill all that relates
                                to the liability of railroad companies for stock killed at the
                                crossings of public highways. I think it is unjust lo impose upon
                                them liabilities, when it is impossible to protect themselves.

                            Mr. CRAVEN obtained the floor, but the hour for adjournment cut off
                                his remarks.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY, February 18, 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.

                            Mr. JENKINSON, Mr. PARRETT, and Mr. POLK each presented petitions for
                                protection against sheep-killing dogs; which were referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture.

                            Mr. GIFFORD presented, a memorial for legislation to correct the
                                exorbitant appraizement of the Harrison, New Trenton and Brookfield
                                Turnpike road; which was referred to the Committee on Ways
                                    and Means.

                            Mr. EDSON presented a memorial for a Joint resolution, asking the
                                Peace Convention and instructing our Senators and requesting our
                                Representatives in Congress, to use their influence for the adoption
                                of the Crittenden propositions for peace.

                            Mr. HEFFREN presented a petition, numerously signed, for the same
                                object.

                            They were referred to the Committee of
                                Thirteen.

                            Mr. WOODHULL presented a petition ugued-by 104 citizens, praying for
                                the repeal of the statute giving force and effect, to the 13th
                                article of the Constitution regarding negroes and mulattoes.

                            On motion by Mr. HOLCOMB, it was laid on the table.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB presented a memorial embracing resolutions of a meeting
                                of citizens in the town of Francisco, (Robert N. Brooks presiding,)
                                calling for a velinquishment of the States' interest in the Wabash
                                and Erie Canal, and for the said company to keep the canal in
                                navigable order; which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Canals.

                            Mr. ERWIN presented the petition of sundry citizens and members of
                                the bar of Lawrence county, remonstrating against the proprosed new
                                Circuit to be composed of the counties of Lawrence, Monroe. Greene,
                                Brown, &c. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CALUMET FEEDER DAM.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Wood's resolution relative to damages occasioned by the
                                Calumet Feeder Dam overflowing lands in Lake county, and recommended
                                the adoption of the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Attorney General of
                                            the State be requested to examine into the matter
                                            complained of in relation to the damage done to the
                                            lands in Lake and adjoining counties by the Calumet
                                            Feeder Dam; and report to the House what measures are
                                            necessary to remedy the evils complained of.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            This resolution was adopted.

                            Mr. McLEAN, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Counties, returned Mr. Prosser's bill (151) for the
                                erection of the 14th Judicial Circuit, and Mr. Kendrick's Marion
                                County Judicial Circuit bill, recommending their indefinite
                                postponement, and reporting a bill in lieu of both, viz : a bill
                                (241) to prescribe what counties shall hereafter compose the od, 5th
                                and 6th Judicial Circuits; to fix the times, &c.

                            The report was concurred in, and the new bill was passed to the
                                second reading.

                            Mr. FORD, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Black's bill (100) to authorize
                                township trustees to sign saline land certificates, recommending its
                                passage; and it was ordered to be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            DOG LICENSE.

                            Mr. DAVIS, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned Mr. Veatch's Dog bill (175), with a motion to lay it on the
                                table; which was concurred in.

                            He also returned Mr. Anderson's Dog License and Damage bill (176),
                                with verbal amendments, and adding a clause, making the fund arising
                                therefrom a common school fund distributable annually in the
                                township where it shall accrue.

                            The amendments were concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            Mr. TURNER, from the same Committee, returned Mr. Polk'e Dog bill,
                                with a motion that it be laid on the table; which was concurred
                                in.

                            

                            Mr. PARETT, from the Committee on Temperance,
                                returned the petition of Susan B. Hunt and others, for a,
                                Prohibitory Liquor law, with a statement that legislation would be
                                not only inexpedient, but destructive of the end sought, because
                                such a law, under the decision of the Courts, would be
                                unconstitutional and void; and thereupon recommending that it be
                                laid on the table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. JONES of Wayne, from the Select Committee thereon, returned the
                                resolution for a revision of the rates of tolls on plank and
                                McAdamized roads, reporting further legislation unnecessary; which
                                was concurred in.

                            Mr. BRYANT, from the Select Committee thereon, returned the
                                resolution for fencing the Tippecanoe Battle Ground, reporting
                                thereupon a bill (242) to provide for the enclosure of the
                                Tippecanoe Battle Ground, and making an appropriation therefor ;
                                which was passed to a second reading.

                            The bills (S. 177) to amend the Common Pleas act of March 5, 1859,
                                coming up in order on the Calendar, it was passed to the second
                                reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON FIGHTING.

                            The SPEAKER makes this Committee to consist of Messrs. Bingham, Ford,
                                Haworth, Crain and Brett.

                            Mr. PROSSER asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill (243) fixing
                                the times of holding the Courts in the First Judicial Circuit, and
                                repealing, &c.

                            Mr. JONES of Tippecanoe,(244). To amend section 1, of the act of
                                March 2, 1859, fixing the times of Courts in the 12th Judicial
                                Circuit.

                            Mr. ROBERTS: [245] declaratory of the meaning of the first clause of
                                the 8th section, and also the 9th section of article 2. part 2,
                                chapter 1, of the Revised Code of 1852.

                            Which were severally passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB asked leave to submit his Gibson swamp land fund
                                resolution; but it was objected to. 

                            Mr. Hurd's bill [203 To provide for the registration of births,
                                marriages and deaths, coming up in order on the calendar, it was
                                ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. Cooprider's ditch bill [204] was referred to the
                                    Committee on Swamp Lands.Mr. Williams' free
                                turnpike bill [205] was referred to the Committee on County
                                    and Township Business.

                            Mr. Roberts' bill [206] supplemental to article 9, sec. 156, part
                                second of the Code, providing for attachment, &c., was referred
                                to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXTRA COMPENSATION OF CLERKS AND SHERIFFS.

                            The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz : The consideration of
                                Mr. Jenkinson's bill [H. R. 5] to restrict the taxing power of the
                                Board of County Commissioners (to 50cents on the $100)-the question
                                being, Shall the bill be engrossed?

                            Mr. JENKINSON moved that it be considered as engrossed, and put upon
                                its final passage.

                            Mr. WOODHULL was opposed to the bill. There was a limit as to
                                legislation on this question of taxation beyond which it would not
                                be safe to go. If the people desired this change, we should have
                                petitions for it. It was a proposition to take from the people the
                                right to take care of their own affairs. His county people wanted
                                this privilege. They were without railroads, and their land
                                valuations were less than the average of good land, in railroad
                                localities. They tried limiting themselves to fifty cents on the
                                $100, and it run them into debt. They wanted to erect new county
                                buildings, &c., which they could not, if this bill pass. He
                                showed also that it I would work injuriously even in Allen, the
                                gentleman's own county. The effect-of this bill in his county would
                                be to compel them to borrow money.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. The object of the bill was to economize. He gave
                                examples to show the necessity for it. The county officers are
                                making too much money. The people of Allen county were now paying 75
                                cents tax on the $100 for county purposes; and he was sent here for
                                the express purpose of restraining the taxing power of the
                                Commissioners to 50 cents on the $100. He would take a contract to
                                carry on the county of Steuben for the proceeds of a tax of 50 cents
                                on the $100. The bill would beget economy. It was a wise rule to
                                furnish no more public money than is necessary. There were not fifty
                                men in Allen county opposed to this bill, and he wanted to extend
                                its benefits to all the people in the State. It would cut off the
                                treasury cormorants.

                            Mr. BUNDY proposed to amend the Committees amendment, by striking out
                                "fifty cents" and inserting "one dollar," as the limitation of the
                                taxing power. He would go as far as any to accommodate the gentleman
                                from Allen, but it should not be forgotten that we are here, every
                                man not merely for his own county, but for the State at large. Allen
                                was a rich county, with many miles of railroad, and after she had
                                been so enriched, he was surprised to see this proposition corning
                                from their representative. He was not prepared to say to the
                                Commissioners of Allen county, that they could not make the levy
                                necessary to pay debts already contracted for railroads or county
                                improvements. That must be the object, to avoid the payment of
                                county debts It looked too much like repudiation for him to sanction
                                it. 

                            Mr. JENKINSON. His bill would raise $30,000 in Allen. $7,000 would
                                pay the interest on their county debt; and when this $100.000 should
                                become due, years hence, this act could be repealed. The object was
                                to  check extravagance-for two
                                years at least, if the House refuse this bill, there would not be
                                left a corporal's guard of Republicans in Allen county. He would go
                                home and tell them, you asked the Legislature for a fish, and they
                                gave you a stone.

                            Mr. WOODHULL had stated that the tax in Allen was 65 cents on the
                                $100. He read a statement from an ex-sheriff and the treasurer of
                                Allen for the source of his information, This bill was an
                                application for repudiation of county debts.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. It was the county officers who were making opposition
                                to this bill.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. This was a matter belonging peculiarly to the people of
                                the several counties. Even if they abused themselves in the matter
                                of taxation, it was none of our business here. He moved that the
                                bill and amendment, be indefinitely postponed.

                            Mr. JENKINSON demanded the yeas and nays, which being ordered and
                                taken, resulted-yeas 33, nays 48 : so the House refused to
                                postpone.

                            Mr. NEBEKER demanded the previous question ; and there was a
                                second.

                            The first question being on the amendment of Mr. Bundy, it was
                                rejected: and then the Committee's amendment was adopted, and the
                                bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. JENKINSON moved that the bill be considered and engrossed ; which
                                was agreed to.

                            Mr. WOODHULL ineffectually demanded a call of the House.

                            Mr. ROBBINS moved that the bill be read the third time now.

                            Mr. F RASIER. Was it the province of the Legislature to restrain
                                county improvements ? or was it not the true Democratic principle to
                                allow the people to attend to their own business? He preferred that
                                the bill take the regular course.

                            The bill was ordered to the third reading.

                            Mr. FRASIER spoke against the bill. It was exceeding the power of
                                legislation. The matter of couunty improvement was peculiarly the
                                business of the people of the county. He ventilated the reasons
                                which had brought about this demand from Allen county. The remedy
                                was not in legislation here, but in revolutionizing through the
                                ballot box, and turning out the Treasury cormorants. His county had
                                never been in debt, from one year to the other, since he had resided
                                there. They wanted county buildings, and should the Legisture step
                                in and prevent them? He was willing the gentleman should have all
                                the partizan benefit of the defeat of this measure in Allen
                                county.

                            Mr. PARRETT. Popular sovereignty was all right enough. But when men
                                couldn't govern themselves, they ought to be governed. Allen county
                                had been and still was the "Egypt" of the State. He was for this
                                bill, because it was demanded by the people. Honesty in the county
                                affairs was essential, and restraints were essential where honesty
                                was wanting.

                            Mr. WOODHULL spoke for the general credit of the people and officers
                                of his county.

                            Mr. PARRETT disclaimed personal imputations; but insisted that
                                honesty and restraints were both necessary. The gentleman from Allen
                                had confessed that their Democratic county administration had so
                                ruined that, county, that they could not get along without
                                Republican help; and he was going to help them now by voting for
                                this bill.

                            The bill was then passed the third reading in the House-yeas 55, nays
                                25-as follows :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        AYES-Messrs. Atkisson, Bingham, Brett,
                                            Brucker, Burgess, Collins of Adams, Combs, Cooprider,
                                            Davis, Edson, Erwin, Ferguson, Fisher, Fleming, Ford,
                                            Fraley, Gifford, Hall, Hayes, Heffren, Henricks,
                                            Holcomb, Hopkins, Howard, Hudson, Hurd, Jenkinson, Jones
                                            of Tippecanoe, Kendrick, Kitchen, Knowlton, Lods,
                                            Lightner, McLean, Moody, Moss, Mutz, Nebeker, Parrett,
                                            Pitts, Prosser, Kagan, Randall, Bobbins, Roberts, Smith
                                            of Miami, Trier, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Warrum,
                                            Wilson, Woods, Mr. Speaker-55.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Black, Boydston, Branham,
                                            Bundy, Campbell, Cason, Grain, Fordyce, Frasier,
                                            Gresham, Harvey, Haworth. Horton, Jones of Wayne, Lee,
                                            Moorman, Newman, Orr, Sherman, Sloan, Thomas, Thompson,
                                            Wells, Williams, Woodhull-25. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            EXTRA SERVICES OF CLERKS AND SHERIFFS.

                            The House now resumed the unfinished business, viz: Mr. Nebeker's
                                bill [8] for allowance for extra services of clerks and sheriffs,
                                the question being on the adoption of the Judiciary
                                    Committee's amendment by way of substitute, to the
                                effect, that the annual compensation for extra service shall not
                                exceed $100; but such allowance shall not be made until said clerk
                                or sheriff shall have filed with the County Commissioners his
                                affidavit embracing a detailed statement of such extra service.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to amend the amendment, by extending the
                                discretion of allowance to sheriffs to $200; which was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. EDSON proposed, that said extra services be paid the same fees
                                for similar services as determined by law; which was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. BLAKE proposed to amend, by striking out the requisition for a
                                detailed statement and affidavit.

                            On motion of Mr. CASON, it was also laid on the table.

                            The question recurring on the committee's amendment-

                            Mr. BUNDY said that $100 was too small. It was not enough for extra
                                services required in all the large counties. He could not vote for
                                so low a restriction.

                            Mr. PROSSER. It was enough in the small counties ; and in the large
                                counties, where the officers get rich in four years, it was
                                certainly enough.

                            Mr. FRASIER believed that the sheriff did twice as much work for
                                nothing as the clerk, and the office was not as lucrative.

                            Mr. JENKINSON thought $100 was enough. It would prevent abuse.
                            

                            Mr. BUNDY proposed to extend the limitation to $150; which was laid
                                on the table.

                            Mr. GORE proposed to amend the commit tees's amendment, by adding a
                                clause, that no allowance shall be made in any count} where the
                                number of inhabitants exceed 3,000 which was laid on the table.

                            The Judiciary Committee's amendment was now
                                adopted.

                            On motion of Mr. NEBEKER, the bill was considered as engrossed, and
                                passed the third reading-yeas 76, nays 3.

                            On motion of Mr. DAVIS, the House now took up the consideration of
                                bills in the calendar on the third reading.

                            Mr. Cameron's bill [3], to provide for the Common Pleas in Newton
                                county, coming up it was passed the final reading in the House yeas
                                71, nays 0.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB asked, but could not obtain leave, to submit a resolution
                                for two sessions a day.

                            Mr. Speaker Allen's bill [13], for refunding license money illegally
                                collected under the act of June 15, 1852, coming up; and no quorum
                                voting thereon-

                            The House adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE 
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 19,1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. LINE, the reading of yesterday's journal was dispensed
                            with.

                        Mr. FERGUSON presented a petition from citizens of Clark county, praying
                            that a monument be erected over the grave of Jonathan Jennings, the
                            first Governor of Indiana, which was referred to a Select Committee, viz
                            : Senators Ferguson, Slack and Newcomb.

                        Mr. COBB presented the petition of 723 citizens, praying that an act be
                            passed for the relief of the treasurer of Martin county, whose office
                            was robbed of $2,300 ; which was referred to a Select Committee, viz:
                            Senators Cobb, Murray, Anthony, Steele, Claypool and Craven. 

                        
                            THE EMBEZZLEMENT BILL.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Finance Committee, returned
                                the embezzlement bill (H. R. 1)-described on page 175 of these
                                Reports-recommending passage with immaterial amend merits.

                            Mr. MURRAY moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to make its
                                penalties applicable to county and township treasurers.

                            Mr. WAGNER explained its provisions.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I want to vote for this bill. I am willing county
                                treasurers shall be liable to the amount of their bonds alone (let
                                it be sufficient), and let them do what they please with the money.
                                I think that is the safest way.

                            Mr. MURRAY. This Senate adopted a similar amendment when the Senate
                                bill, identical with this one, was before it: and I want to know if
                                a change has come over the spirit of their dreams. I hope the Senate
                                will insist upon the position it has taken. 

                            Mr. LINE. I have concluded to vote for this bill, even if it does not
                                refer to any but State officers.

                            Mr. CONNER. I will go as far as any Senator to protect the public
                                funds, either State county, or township. It would be wrong to impose
                                penalties upon county or township treasurers for depositing funds in
                                their possession, when they have no safe to keep them in. I think
                                the Judiciary Committee should examine this bill.
                                I want to be assured it is right, and then I will vote for it. I
                                move to refer, with instructions to report in what manner it affects
                                county and township treasurers.

                            Mr. MURRAY withdrew his motion.

                            Mr. MARCH. I am in favor of passing the same laws affecting county
                                and township treasurers that applies to the State treasurer. I am
                                willing to vote for this bill, embracing only the custody of State
                                funds, and then vote to pass the Senate bill embracing also county
                                and township treasurers. I believe every county in the State is able
                                to provide a safe, and it is policy for them to do so. I am opposed
                                to recommitting the bill, trusting the Senate will pass the other
                                bill also, and throw the responsibility upon the House.

                            Mr. ROBINSON. I hope this bill will not be recommitted.

                            Mr. RAY. For one I am not in favor of the passage of the Senate bill,
                                for the reason that the expense for safes would be disproportionate
                                to the benefit arising therefrom. It would involve an expense
                                greater than all the thefts of county funds in the State would
                                amount to. I think it proper the State Treasury should be better
                                guarded than it has been. Corruptly speaking, there has not been a
                                dollar lost by any of the Democratic State officers.

                            Mr. CONNER withdrew his motion, and proposed to amend, by unanimous
                                consent, hat nothing in this act shall be so construed is to prevent
                                county treasurers from depositing funds, for safe keeping only; at
                                the risk of such county treasurers so depositing.

                            Mr. WAGNER opposed motions to refer.

                        
                        

                        
                            [A MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE

                             Announced the passage by that body of the bill [H. R. 8], providing
                                for allowances to clerks of courts, &c. Also : the bill [H. R.
                                3] to provide for holding Common Pleas courts in Newton county.] 

                            Mr. SHIELDS. I would be very glad to see the bill passed as it is;
                                but I do not see why i cannot be so amended as to apply to county nd
                                township officers as well. If any funds should be guarded, it is the
                                county and township funds.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS submitted additional instructions, that the
                                    Judiciary Committee report what effect this
                                bill will have upon county treasurers, and also to incorporate the
                                amend 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 23, 1861
                        No. 16
                    

                    
                        
                        
                            ment proposed by the Senator from Wabash (Mr. Conner).

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to amend the amendment, by exempting the Sinking
                                Fund Commissioners from the provisions of this bill.

                            Mr. CONNER accepted this amendment.

                            Mr. WAGNER objected to this motion, and moved to lay the motion to
                                refer on the table.

                            This motion was agreed to by yeas 29, nays 17.

                            Mr. MURRAY. If there was any subject before this Legislature that
                                interested me more than another, it was this embezzlement bill, and
                                when I came here I expected to vote for that bill, and I expected
                                that bill to cover the whole ground and secure the funds of the
                                whole State from the peculations of dishonest office holders. The
                                revenue to carry on this government is collected by direct tax upon
                                the property of the people, and we come forward here with an
                                embezzlement bill, proposing to make it a felony to use the funds in
                                the hands of the State Treasurer, and we except all revenues
                                collected by county and township treasurers. Now, sir, if the rule
                                be a good one to punish, as a felon, by incarceration in- the
                                penitentiary, a State officer who may take the tax collected from
                                the people and devote it to his own private use. the same penalty
                                and rule ought to apply to county and township treasurers. That
                                principle shall govern, my vote. I venture the assertion, that no
                                bill will be adopted by this Legislature enacting penalties against
                                county and township officers, unless incorporated in this bill. I
                                intend to vote against this bill.

                            [A message from the House asked the return of the bill H. R. 5
                                transmitted yesterday.]

                            Mr. COBB. I desire to see passed an embezzlement bill of some kind or
                                other. The sinking fund is a more important fund than any other we
                                look to as legislators, and I move that it be exempt from the
                                provisions of this bill. It is an accumulative fund, and if its
                                accumulation is stopped the object of the fund is destroyed. 

                            Objection being made, the motion was not entertained by the
                                Chair.

                            The bill finally passed by yeas 41, nays 5. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            By Mr. COBB: Judiciary-returning his bill [184]
                                concerning the jurisdiction of Justices-passage.

                            By Mr. DEHART: Judiciary-Senator Murray's new
                                Notary Public bill-lie on the table.

                            By Mr. SHIELDS: Corporations-his bill [33]
                                punishing embezzlement by railroad employees-lie on the table.

                            By Mr. BEESON : Agriculture-His bill 1G9 (seepage
                                212 of these Reports)passage.

                            By Mr. HULL: Select Committee the petition of J. C. Kennedy, asking a
                                special, act authorizing the admission of his wife in the Insane
                                Hospital, reporting that the present law is sufficient after she
                                obtains a residence in the State.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Select Committee His bill [40] for the protection of
                                fish, recommending that the proposed amendments thereto(see pages
                                164, 170 of these Reports-lie on the table.

                            By Mr. ANTHONY: Select Committee the Organization of Courts' bill
                                [159] numbering the Common Pleas Districts-passage.

                            Which reports were severally concurred in.

                        
                        


                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                             The following bills were introduced and severally passed the first
                                reading:

                            By Mr. TURNER:[198] requiring county auditors to report to the
                                Sinking Fund Commissioners and Superintendent of Public Instruction
                                the amount of school fund on hand,/ and providing penalties for the
                                violation of this act. [He made an ineffectual motion yeas 25, nays
                                22-to suspend the order that it might be read the second time.]

                            By Mr. COBB: [199] to amend section 1 of an act supplemental to "An
                                Act to exempt property from sale in certain cases, approved March 5,
                                1859;" so as to exclude all kinds of personal property.

                            By Mr, CONNER: [200] An Act authorizing the drainage of swamplands or
                                wetlands and providing for the assessment and payment of damages
                                sustained thereby.

                            By Mr. CRAVEN: [201] To prevent officers from taking illegal fees,
                                affixing penalties therefor, and requiring officers in certain cases
                                to receipt for fees on payment of the same.

                            By Mr. WILSON : [202] To amend section 8 of an act regulating the
                                fees of officers, approved March 2, 1855.

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            By Mr. BLAIR: [203] authorizing the Governor to obtain possession of all the
                                public arms and military equipments belonging to the State of
                                Indiana, as distributed by the general government to the same, and
                                which are not in possession of companies meeting regularly for
                                drill, &c., and providing for the distribution of the public
                                arms.

                            By Mr. LANDERS: [204] to amend section & of the act of 1859, to
                                provide a Treasury system for the State of Indiana, &c.

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: [205] to amend section 16 of an act touching the
                                relation of guardian and ward, approved June 9, 1852, and repealing
                                sections 17 and 18 of said act.

                            By Mr. MARCH: [206] to amend section 99 of the practice act of June
                                18, 1852.

                            By Mr. STONE: [207] to amend section 9 of an act regulating the fees
                                of officers, approved March 7, 1855, (county treasurers).

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL : [208] to amend sections 3 and 5 of an act
                                regulating the fees of officers, approved March 7, 1855 (county
                                clerks and sheriffs). He made an ineffectual motion- yeas 30, nays
                                8-to suspend the rules that it might be read the second time.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: [209] to amend section 12 of an act regulating
                                decadents' estates, and the apportionment of estates, approved May
                                14, 1852. 


                            
                                SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
                                Mr. MILLER offered a joint resolution [S. 15] proposing, in the
                                    prescribed way, an amendment to the Constitution, so that the
                                    State Superintendent of Public Instruction shall hold his office
                                    six years instead of two years. At Mr. Line's suggestion he
                                    modified his resolution, so that the term of office shall be but
                                    four years.

                                Which was rejected by yeas 21, nays 24. 
                            
                            

                            
                                PERFECT RAILROAD TITLES.
                                The PRESIDENT announced the consideration of the unfinished
                                    business of Friday, viz., Mr. Hamilton's bill 31-see page 45 of
                                    these Reports-on the third reading : being identical with the
                                    bill H. R. 33.

                                Mr. MARCH,by unanimous consent, amended the bill, by providing
                                    that this act may be amended or repealed at the discretion of
                                    the Legislature.

                                Mr. STONE submitted additional instructions, to so amend section
                                    6 as to include the security of sums due persons for labor
                                    performed, and wood and other materials furnished the old
                                    companies, and that the security of present stockholders shall
                                    not be lessened by the passage of this bill.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB. I don't think this bill can be bettered, for it was
                                    well considered in committee, and I do hope these amendments
                                    will not be insisted upon.

                                Mr. CONNER favored the passage of the bill.

                                Mr. STONE sustained his amendment.

                                Mr. CRAVEN. The bill proposes a violation of the Constitution,
                                    and it would be an annual bankrupt law for railroads as long as
                                    it might remain in force. The true intention of this bill is to
                                    cut out every stockholder in the State of Indiana, and it is an
                                    act the most fraudulent ever before the Legislature. 

                                Mr. NEWCOMB replied, and thought the objections were more
                                    specious than sound. If there was any way to make the new bond-
                                    holders pay the old debts of the road, it would be right and
                                    proper to do so. 

                                Mr. LINE made an ineffectual motion to lay the motions to
                                    recommit on the table yeas 17 nays 22. 

                                Mr. CRAVEN again opposed the passage of the bill. By the
                                    provisions of this bill every railroad in the State may be
                                    turned over to foreign bondholders.

                                Mr. HAMILTON urged the passage of his bill, and explained its
                                    provisions.

                                Mr. COBB never saw a fraud covered up with so flimsy a garb as
                                    the one embraced in this bill. He submitted additional
                                    instruction to strike out in the second section the words'
                                    "whether then held or thereafter to be acquired."

                                Mr. HAMILTON moved to make his bill the order for to-morrow
                                    morning at ten o'clock.

                                Mr. COBB moved to indefinitely postpone the bill.

                                Mr. STUDABAKER moved an ineffectual motion to lay the bill and
                                    pending amendments on the table.

                                On motion by Mr. JOHNSON, the motion to postpone indefinitely was
                                    laid on the table.

                                Mr. CRAVEN made an ineffectual motion to postpone till Friday
                                    next at 2 o'clock.

                                Mr. CRAVEN moved to postpone the further consideration of the
                                    bill till the 6th of March.

                                On motion by Mr. CONNER, this motion was laid on the table yeas
                                    29, nays 13.

                                Mr. COBB made an ineffectual motion-yeas 12, nays 28 to lay on
                                    the table the motion to postpone till to-morrow.

                                Mr. LINE demanded the previous question.

                                The demand was seconded.

                                The motion to postpone till to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock was
                                    then agreed to. 
                            
                            

                            
                                REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                                Mr. MELLETT, by consent, from the Judiciary
                                        Committee, returned his bill 131 see page 184 of
                                    these Reports recommending passage with amendments. Also his
                                    bill 132, recommending that it lie on the table.

                                Mr. MILLER, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                    returned Mr. Teegarden's bill 106 see page 159 recommending
                                    passage.

                                Which reports were concurred in.

                                And then the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 19,1861
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. STOTSENBERG presented the petition of members of the city council
                                and others, citizens of New Albany, for a change in the
                                constitution, so that towns, townships, and cities may have the right to levy taxes for
                                the sup-port of common schools. The matter of the petition having
                                been acted on, he moved that it be laid on the table; which was
                                agreed to.

                            Mr. WOODS presented the memorial of Nicholas Shearer, of Lake county,
                                praying for legislation to indemnify him for injuries sustained by
                                him on account of being prevented by the commissioner from
                                completing his contract on the Calumet ditch. It was referred to the
                                    Committee on Claims.

                            Mr. McLEAN presented the remonstrance of Kench. Smith and others,
                                citizens of Vigo county, against the passage of the committee bill
                                [136,] for the Protection of fish and fisheries, which was referred
                                to the Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                            Mr. EDSON presented the petition of A. C. Williams and others,
                                memorializing the Legislature to request the Peace Commissioners and
                                instruct our Senators and Representatives in Congress to compromise
                                and co-operate for peace on the basis of the Crittenden amendments,
                                or some other basis equally fair and honorable; which was referred
                                to the Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. HEFFREN had leave of absence-sick. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS AND ORDERS.
                            Mr. ROBERTS had leave to submit a resolution, that the
                                    Committee on Rights and privileges inquire
                                into the expediency of a law requiring all persons, before taking
                                charge of a moveable or stationary steam engine in this State, to
                                procure a certificate of qualifications.

                            Mr. KENDRICK ; For a subscription for one copy of Sutherland's
                                Biographical Sketches of the members and officers of the
                                Forty-first. General Assembly of the State of Indiana to be sent to
                                each township library; which was referred to the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. CRAIN: Whereas, the Supreme Court, at the last term, decided that
                                capital invested in the Bank sf the State is taxable in the hands of
                                holders of certificates of stock, Resolved, that the
                                    Judiciary Committee inquire into the
                                expediency of amending the assessment laws in that regard,
                                &c.

                            Mr. PROSSER: That the Committee on the Judiciary inquire into the
                                expediency of suspending all execution laws and laws for the
                                collection of debts, for the term of one year, and report,
                                &c.

                            Mr. BRANHAM: A joint resolution [31] To provide for the appointment
                                of a Commission to investigate and report on the fiscal affairs of
                                the State. [Three Commissioners pn the part of the House and two on
                                the part of the Senate-to report to the next General Assembly, or to
                                the Governor as soon as they shall complete the work-empowered to
                                examine State offices and papers, to send for persons and papers,
                                and receive the compensation of members of the Legislature during
                                the time necessarily engaged therein.]

                            The joint resolution was passed-yeas 76, nays 4.

                            [A message from the Senate announced a joint resolution for a Joint
                                Committee to report a bill for the gradual liquidation of the State
                                debt-,and announced the passage of bills.]

                            Mr. JENKINSON: That the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means inquire into the expediency of replacing the
                                enclosure of the Governor's Circle with a good, substantial iron
                                fence.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB: That from and after tomorrow, the time of meeting of the
                                House shall be nine o'clock in the morning and two o'clock in the
                                afternoon.

                            It lies over one day.

                            Mr. ORR: That Mr. A. D. Streight have the use of this Hall next
                                Thursday night, February 21st, for the purpose of a public lecture
                                on the present crisis.

                            Mr. WOODS: A concurrent resolution instructing our Senators and
                                requesting our Representatives in Congress, to use all honorable
                                means to prevent the renewal of the patent to Cyrus H. McCormick for
                                his reapers. It was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            Mr. SHERMAN: A joint resolution (32) instructing our Senators and
                                requesting our Representatives in Congress to endeavor to procure an
                                appropriation for the improvement of the harbor at Michigan City. It
                                was passed- yeas 81, nays 1.

                            Mr. WOODHULL: Giving to Samuel E. O. Wilson the privilege of the
                                floor for the purpose of soliciting aid of members in behalf of his
                                distressed fellow citizens in Kansas.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB: That the Auditor of Public Accounts be requested to
                                report to this House immediately the amount of swamp lands funds
                                received and placed to the credit of Gibson county-to whom paid, and
                                for what paid. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS
                            Were now introduced (by unanimous consent) and passed to the second
                                reading, viz :

                            Mr. Bundy: [246] To repeal all laws authorizing the judges of the
                                Circuit Courts to hold special or adjourned terms, and legalizing
                                the business of said terms.

                            Mr. Veatch: (247) To provide for taxing and collecting for the use of
                                the State docket fees in civil and criminal causes, where, the State
                                shall be a party. [Five dollars against the losing party.]

                            Mr. Hopkins: [248] To authorize the Board of Commissioners of the
                                several counties through which the Wabash and Erie canal runs, to
                                cause bridges to be made across said canal.

                            Mr. Mutz : [249] To provide for the collection of taxes from persons
                                wandering through the State without any place of permanent
                                abode-(Gypsies.)

                            Mr. Underwood: [250] To enable railroad companies incorporated under
                                the general railroad law of May 11, 1852, that have gone on to
                                construct their roads, but have not completed them, to enjoy the
                                privilege of their charters,
                                &c., and also to extend the time for the completion of
                                railroads.

                            Mr. Gore: (251) To amend the 14th section of the Common Pleas act of
                                March, 1859.

                            Mr. Jenkinson: [252] To amend the second section of the act of March
                                3, 1859, incorporating school township, &c. 

                            Mr. McLean: [253] Declaring the vending, selling, or giving away of
                                impure or drugged liquor a felony, and prescribing punishment
                                therefor.

                            Mr. Brett: [254] To provide for the revaluation and sale of forfeited
                                school lands.

                            Mr. Crain; [255] To enable the Board of Trustees of the Wabash and
                                Erie canal, with the consent of the creditors, to lease said
                                canal.

                            Mr. Pitts: [256] To secure the collection of rents in certain cases
                                therein named; and to enable persons of small means to rent lands
                                without giving personal or other security therefor.

                            Mr. Edson : [257] Fixing and providing for the compensation of
                                members of the General Assembly, the secretaries, clerks and
                                doorkeepers thereof, repealing, &c., [$300 for each regular
                                session, $200 for each called session: mileage 16 cents a mile,
                                &c.]

                            Mr. Bingham: [258] To amend sections 684 and 688 of the practice act,
                                so as to authorise a rate of assessment of damages in certain
                                cases.

                            Mr. Sherman: [259] Supplemental to the act of March 9, 1859,
                                amendatory of the general law for the incorporation of. cities,
                                &c., [where the population is less than 10,000 the mayor and
                                councilmen shall receive no compensation as such, &c.]

                            Mr. Edson; [260] To authorize constables to administer oaths in
                                certain cases (to appraisers.)

                            Mr. Parrett: [261] To amend section 6 of the act of May 2, 1852,
                                incorporating 'mining and manufacturing companies, &c., so as to
                                provide that any company incorporated under said act may Increase
                                the same by a vote of the stockholders, in the same manner as
                                provided in said act for increasing the capital stock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            KANSAS RELIEF.
                            Mr. CAMERON submitted a resolution, that the Committee on
                                    Rights and Privileges inquire into the expediency of
                                donating and appropriating the sum of $2,000 to aid /the starving
                                poor of Kansas.

                            After some conversation across the House, it was laid on the
                                table-affirmative 41, negative 89. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEWTON COUNTY-SEAT.
                            Mr. SHERMAN, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned Mr. Frasier's bill [173], supplemental to the act of March
                                2,1855, and the Perry county-seat act of December, 1858, so as to
                                provide for the re-location of county-seats, where no court house
                                house been erected,&c., [to apply to the county of Newton]
                                recommending its passage.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG opposed the bill.

                            Mr. MOODY supported the bill from various considerations. All he
                                desired was, that the people of Newton county,should have the right
                                to decide this matter for themselves-should have a fair chance
                                against the claims of Alexander J. Kent, upon whose lands said
                                county seat has been located by the commissioners.

                            Mr. CRAIN. This bill would create county-seat litigations all over
                                the State. 

                            Mr. CAMERON. It could affect the question of the county-seat only
                                where they have no county buildings.

                            Mr. FRASIER. It could affect no county in the State, unless it should
                                happen to be in precisely the same situation in which Newton county
                                is now placed in this matter. 

                            Mr. CASON. It was no more than just that a majority of the people
                                should control their own'affairs,this respect; this bill requires
                                three-fifths.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and under its operation
                                the report was concurred in and the bill ordered to be
                                engrossed-yeas 64, nays 19.

                            On motion by Mr. WOODHULL, it was ordered that Mr. Jenkinson's bill
                                [5,] passed yesterday and transmitted to the Senate, be
                                recalled.

                            Mr. BUNDY, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Cameron's bill [50,] to repeal the act for the return of juries
                                to the common pleas on the third day of term, with a recommendation
                                that it be laid on the table; which was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MATTHEWS AND JOHNSON.
                            Mr. DOBBINS, from a majority of the Committee on
                                    Claims, returned , the memorial of Wm. B. Matthews and
                                Johnson, citizens of the State of Illinois, for compensation ($224
                                60) for capturing and returning a fugitive from justice from Marion
                                county, reporting against the appropriation of money for such a
                                purpose. They say they come to this conclusion very reluctantly; and
                                they admit that if they did not believe that the commissioners of
                                Marion county have the power to make said allowance, they would
                                recommend that it made by the General Assembly.

                            Mr. SLOAN, for the minority-himself and Mr. Stevenson-reported in
                                favor of the allowance of the claim.

                            The report of the majority was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COUNTY SURVEYORS' FEES. 
                            Mr. HOLCOMB (by leave) submitted a resolution, which was adored, for
                                the appointment of a committee of five, instructed to examine the
                                law in reference to the fees of county surveyors, and report such
                                changes as may be necessary.

                            The SPEAKER (Mr. Nebeker in the chair; makes the said committee to
                                consist of Messrs. Holcomb, Collins of Adams, Wilson, Fisher and
                                Jones of Tippecanoe. 
                        
                        
                        

                        
                            POWERS OF AGRICULTURAL SOCIETIES.
                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Thompson's bill [199] to amend the act of Feb. 7, '55,
                                so as to authorize county agricultural societies to increase the
                                amount of land that may be held by them to 80 acres, and to
                                authorize such societies to issue capital stock; with a clerical
                                amendment, recommending its passage.

                            The amendment was adopted.

                            On motion of Mr.BRANHAM, the bill was considered as engrossed, and
                                passed the final reading in the house-yeas 84, nays 0. 

                            Mr BRETT, from the Committee on County and Townships'
                                    Business, returned Mr. McLean's bill [4] and another
                                bill [not recited], and reported a substitute for both, viz.: a bill
                                [262] to amend sections 78, 79, 94,95, 142, and 143 of the
                                assessment act of June 21, 1852; and to repeal the act of March
                                4,1859 : which was passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. BURGESS, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned the resolution for repealing the provision of law imposing
                                a penalty for not furnishing the assessor with list, &c.,
                                reporting legislation inexpedient; which was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONVENTIONAL INTEREST.
                            On motion'of Mr. BUNDY, the House now resolved into
                                    Committee of the Whole-Mr. Bundy in the
                                Chair-and took up the consideration of the bill providing for a
                                conventional interest on the loan or forbearance of money not
                                exceeding 10 per cent per annum: the; question being on Mr.
                                Branham's amendment to strike out "ten" and insert "six ;" and to
                                strike out all that relates to the plea of usury.

                            Mr. NEBEKER had spoken two hours on this question in the last
                                session, and he gave now the reason for the interest he had
                                manifested in. this bill. The ten per cent, law would have saved his
                                worthy friend from bankruptcy, who had now gone under. He gave other
                                examples to show that such a law, instead of oppressing, would
                                frequently relieve the embarrassments of poor men. Legalize the ten
                                per cent., and the rate of interest would come down.

                            Mr. NEWMAN. He voted on the question with reference to its practical
                                bearings. He voted for the bill, because it was demanded. He saw
                                this demand in the common evasion of the present law. It was
                                demanded by both the borrower and the lender. It had been said that
                                every law was violated. If it were true that all laws were violated
                                without the execution, of the penalty, then we were better, perhaps,
                                without law. But was it so? The plea of usury was now hooted at; but
                                a misdemeanor was sure to be punished. It was useless here to
                                discuss abstract theories on this question. The present law took
                                capital out of the State. If the practice of receiving 10 per cent,
                                had not been gradually increasing, it would change the case
                                materially. But it was a practice that had been growing up for
                                years.

                            Mr. DAVIS spoke against the amendment of Mr. Branham.

                            Mr. DOBBINS moved, ineffectually, that the committee rise and report
                                the bill, with a motion to indefinitely postpone.

                            Mr. NEBEKER moved that the committee rise, report bill, and recommend
                                passage.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to amend the motion, that the committee rise and
                                recommend the adoption of Mr. Branham's amendment. 

                            Mr. ROBBINS favored the latter motion.

                            Mr. CAMERON. There were two objections to the amendment. It took away
                                the interest laws and, indeed, encouraged dishonesty. It would
                                oppress the conscientious borrower, and leave room for rogues to
                                violate their contracts.

                            Mr. CRAIN. This bill would give the merchant the power to fleece the
                                farmer. He saw no difference in limiting the per cent, of profit on
                                goods and limiting the per cent, on the loan or forbearance of
                                money. The amendment would restrain the advantage now enjoyed, and
                                by the bill proposed, to be more largely enjoyed, by the merchants.
                                A man was not apt to loan his money to a scamp. He was for
                                abolishing all usury laws.

                            Mr. FISHER. It was hard for him to understand why the price of money
                                should be regulated by law, any more than the price of wheat and
                                corn. It seemed to him that the price of money should be regulated
                                by the same rule that regulates all, trade-demand and supply. Money
                                could not be borrowed for less than twelve per cent, interest. This
                                practice being universal,why should not farmers be permitted to loan
                                their capital for 10 per cent.? He gave examples to show how a. ten
                                per cent, law would prevent the flow of capital out of the State, He
                                replied, to Mr. Crain's plea of advantage that would be tataken by
                                the merchant, by stating that the merchant could get about as much
                                as he wants in the profit on his goods, if he was restricted in
                                interest. 

                            Mr. JENKINSON said the shaver in Allen county now ordinarily charges
                                25 per cent., whilst the bank rates were from 12 to 15 per cent. The
                                banks would have short paper, whilst everything like a mortgage,
                                running a year or so, went into the hands of the shavers, &c.
                                His proposition was, to promote the producing interests of the
                                State, by increasing the facilities of getting money to take the
                                pro-duce to market. He gave examples, speaking at length. His idea
                                was to increase the number of money-loaners. Thousands of the
                                capital of the people of Indiana lay now dead, inert in land in
                                Iowa, or wheresoever, instead of quickening business at home.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG., One principle was fixed in his mind, viz : That
                                country is most prosperous where there is a low rate of interest.
                                This was true of England, and of all great commercial States. This
                                matter was not to be regulated by demand and supply. The rate
                                depends upon the security of the lender.

                            

                            Mr. FISHER was only considering the cases where the security was
                                uniformly good.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. Another principle here, was in the control of the
                                lender over the money loaned. If he could get it back when he wants
                                it, he would loan at a lower rate. As long as you prevent the leaner
                                from getting his money on short time, you will have a high rate of
                                interest. Now the lender could not get his money back, by law, in
                                less than a year, &c. He called attention also to the fact, that
                                we allow the banks to charge interest above the legal rate. The
                                difficulty was in the tardy provisions for collections; and in the
                                privilege of the banking corporations to add their charges for
                                exchange.

                            Mr. PARRETT, interrupting. The reason men availed themselves of
                                delays was, because the use of the money was worth more than the
                                interest, the attorney's fees, costs, and damages.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG was anxious for that rule to obtain, by which farmers
                                and all men could charge the same rate of interest with the banks.
                                He gave examples. He would never increase the rate of interest to
                                ten per cent, so long as the banks had the privilege to add
                                exchange, and demanded interest in advance, which he understood this
                                bill to deny to other money-lenders.

                            Mr. BRANHAM desried definite action: and moved that the Committee
                                rise, report the bill to the House, and ask to be discharged from
                                its further consideration.

                            The motion was agreed to, and accordingly the committee rose, and the
                                report was concurred in. The question being still on the adoption of
                                Mr. Branham's amendment-

                            Mr. BRANHAM. There could be no certain correct and just standard-rate
                                of interest. The amendment proposes the largest liberty. It was a
                                mistake that it was a premium for rascality. That premium was in the
                                existing law. To obviate the difficulty about demand and supply, it
                                was proposed to strike down the plea of usury. He gave examples, and
                                spoke at length. Another thing : there was no data by which to
                                determine the present indebtedness of the people of the State; but
                                it was immense, on account of the short crops, beginning in 1854;
                                and this bill was to increase this immense debt of the people of the
                                State by four per cent. Upon this consideration, he was willing to
                                meet gentlemen on the amendment he had proposed.

                            Mr. ORR thought the amendment would not be proper. It would give too
                                much power to the money-lender over the honest borrower.

                            Mr. VEATCH. Did the gentleman ever know a prosecution for usury,
                                except it were a case of personal spite.

                            Mr. ORR. No.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend the amendment, by adding a clause,
                                excluding banking corporations from charging more than 10 per cent,
                                including exchange.

                            Mr. McLEAN moved to lay the amendmenton the table.

                            Mr. BRANHAM called for a division of the question.

                            The SPEAKER. The first question will be on tabling the amendment of
                                the gentleman from Jefferson.

                            Mr. EDSON called for a division of this question.

                            Mr. SPEAKER. The first question under this division will be on
                                tabling the proposition to repeal the usury laws.

                            The House refused to lay that branch on the table; and the question
                                on tabling the proposition for striking out "ten per cent," and
                                inserting "six," was also decided in the negative-yeas 24, nays
                                63.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG'S amendment was then laid on the table-yeas 49, nays
                                21.

                            Mr. LANE now moved that the bill and pending amendments be laid on
                                the table, and demanded the yeas and nays thereon, which being
                                ordered and taken, resulted-yeas 24 nays 62-as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS-Anderson, Black, Bryan, Collins
                                            of Adams, Coop, rider, Dobbins, Edson, Ferguson,
                                            Fleming, Ford, Gore Gresham, Hall, Horton, Howard,
                                            Knowlton, Lods, Lane, Prosser, Prow, Ragan, Roberts,
                                            Trier, Thompson-24.

                                        NAYS-Bingham, Boydston, Branham,
                                            Brett, Brucker Bundy, Burgess, Cameron, Campbell, Cason,
                                            Combs, Grain' Dashiel, Davis, Erwin, Fisher, Fordice,
                                            Fraley, Frasier' Gifford, Grover, Harvey, Haworth,
                                            Hayes, Henricks, Holcomb, Hopkins, Hudson, Kurd,
                                            Jenkinson, Jones of Wayne, Kendrick, Lee, Lightner,
                                            McLean, Moody, Moorman, Mutz, Nebeker, Newman, Orr,
                                            Parrett, Pitts, Polk, Randall, Robbins, Sherman, Sloan,
                                            Smith of Bartholomew, Smith of Miami, Stotsenberg,
                                            Thomas, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Warrum, Wells,
                                            Williams, Wilson, Woodhull, Woods, Mr. Speaker-62. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            So the motion was rejected, and the question recurred again on Mr.
                                Branham's amendment.

                            [Mr. Holcomb had leave of absence, on account of sickness in his
                                family.]

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to indefinitely postpone the amendment. Before
                                the question was taken thereon-

                            The House adjourned. 

                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, February 20,1861.
                        

                         On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the reading of yesterday's journal was
                            dispensed with. 

                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, &C.
                            By Mr. WILLIAMS, signed by 240 citizens of Knox county, without
                                distinction of party: by Mr. SLACK, of 179 names; and by Mr.
                                LANDERS, praying that an adjustment of our national difficulties may
                                be had upon a basis similar to the Crittenden proposition; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Federal
                                Relations.

                            By Mr. LINE : From the Indiana Historical Society, asking Legislative
                                aid; which was referred to a Select Committee, viz: Senators Line,
                                Newcomb and Hamilton. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Banks-returning his bill 121-see
                                page 163 of these Reports-recommending passage.

                            

                            By Mr. DICKINSON: Temperance-Senator Cravens'
                                20-see page 30-passage. 

                            By Mr. LINE : Select Committee-reporting in accordance with a
                                petition a bill [S.210] To aid in the collection and preservation of
                                historical materials relating to the early settlement of the State
                                of Indiana,

                            By Mr. RAY: Judiciary-his bill 185, Shelby county
                                common pleas courts-passage. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                            The following bills were introduced and passed the first reading:

                            By Mr. MARCH: [211] To amend sections 238 and 241 of the Practice
                                Act, approved June 18, 1852; so as to provide for the examination
                                and taking depositions of parties in civil actions and
                                proceedings.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: [212] To fix the time of holding circuit courts in
                                the 16th Judicial Circuit.

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN : [213] To legalize deeds of conveyance of real
                                estate, and debar married women from any right or interest in such
                                real estate in certain cases.

                            By Mr. BEARSS: [214] To amend section 2 of an act to amend the 3d
                                section of an act establishing courts of common pleas, &c.,
                                approved March 1, 1859 ; so as to raise the salary of the common
                                pleas judge from $1,000 to $1,200.

                            By Mr. BEESON: [215] To repeal the act providing for the erection of
                                a new prison (Michigan City) north of the National Road, approved
                                March 5, 1859.

                            By Mr. JOHNSON: [216] To amend sections 1 and 2 of an act relative to
                                special elections, approved May 13, 1852; so as to provide for the
                                election of a Governor of Indiana, to fill the vacancy caused by the
                                resignation of Hon. Henry S. Lane, lately elected U. S. Senator.

                            Mr. MILLER, from the Committee on Education,
                                returned Senate bills 66, 10, 63, 51, with sundry resolutions and
                                petitions proposing amendments to the common school law,
                                recommending that they lie on the table, and reporting a bill [S.
                                217] To provide for a general system of common schools, the officers
                                thereof, and their respective powers and duties, and matters
                                properly connected therewith, and for the establishment and
                                regulation of Township libraries. On his motion, the rules were
                                suspended-yeas 80, nays 4-and the bill read the first and second
                                time by title only.

                            Mr. MILLER moved to lay the bill on the table and print 200 copies.
                                The bill has the sanction of Mr. Rugg, late Superintendent of Public
                                Instruction, as well as Mr. Fletcher, the present incumbent. It does
                                not propose a radical change in the common school system, hut is
                                intended to be an amendment to the law of 1855. This bill makes each
                                town and incorporated city an incorporation for school purposes the
                                same as a township, making a general and uniform system ; it
                                provides that the distributive share of the common school fund shall
                                remain in the county treasuries where it is collected, and that so
                                much of the common school fund shall never be brought to the State
                                treasury at all; it extends the power of school examiners, and
                                provides for a public examination of teachers once in three months,
                                together with a change in their qualifications.

                            The motion to print was agreed to and the committee report concurred
                                in.

                            [Leave of absence was obtained for Mr. Dickinson during the balance
                                of the week.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            PERFECT RAILROAD TITLES.
                            The PRESIDENT announced the consideration of the unfinished business
                                of yesterday, viz:

                            Mr. Hamilton's bill 31-see page 45 of these Reports-on the third
                                reading; being identical with the bill H. R. 33.

                            On motion by Mr. CRAVEN, the bill was recommitted to a select
                                committee of three (Senators Craven, Newcomb and Wagner,) with
                                additional instructions to so modify the bill as to obviate some of
                                the objections that have been urged, if the committee find it
                                practicable to do so consistent with the object of the bill. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE STATE BORROWING MONEY.
                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER-yeas 30, nays 17-after various objections,
                                the bill [H. R. 104,] to provide for a deficiency in the State
                                treasury by a loan of $75,000 from the sinking fund-see pages 111,
                                117, 164, 176 and 212 of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                    REPORTS-was taken up.

                            Mr. WAGNER. We are without a dollar in the treasury, and the Governor
                                has a communication from the State Agent in New York, stating the
                                fact that we are owing, and that there is immediately due, several
                                thousand dollars, and he has not a dollar to pay it with. You have
                                got to have money this week, and it is the business of the
                                Legislature to preserve the credit of the State.

                            Mr. MURRAY moved to recommit the bill, with instructions that said
                                commissioners shall notify the treasurers of the respective counties
                                of the amount of said sinking fund belonging to their counties thus
                                borrowed for the use of the State, with instructions to retain said
                                amount out of any revenue belonging to the State of Indiana, or
                                hereafter paid into the county treasury,

                            [Messages from the House announced the passage of the bills H. R. 31,
                                32, and 199.]

                            Mr. MURRAY. If an amendment of that kind could be incorporated in the
                                bill, I would be perfectly willing to vote for it. It is to save
                                expense of transportation of the revenue that I desire to
                                incorporate this amendment, and to make the repayment of the loan
                                beyond a shadow of doubt. If it is the intention, which I fear is
                                lurking underneath, to take that fund and divert it from the
                                purposes and; objects of the law of 1859, I am opposed to it. I
                                denounce it as a thing unsafe, for the Republican party to undertake to convert
                                this fund into the payment of the State debts. I warn my Republican
                                friends that if they go out before the people on this question,
                                nine-tenths of the people of all parties would say, we have no right
                                to touch this fund. He spoke at length in favor of his amendment,
                                and in opposition to the bill unless his amendment was adopted.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. In some measure my mind has undergone a change, not in
                                regard to the principle of the bill, for I am satisfied the
                                principle of the bill is wrong; that is, that it is wrong to borrow
                                from the various trust funds of the State. If a bill could be
                                pressed through borrowing from the bank, I would much prefer it, but
                                I fear it cannot be done. I have recently become satisfied that
                                it-is not only for the interest of members upon this floor and the
                                other floor, but the interests of the State: demand that we shall
                                have some funds. I have become satisfied that we can so well get it
                                in no other way ; and I do not believe any great or serious injury
                                could result from the provisions of this bill. I am satisfied it
                                would be very likely to be paid back, but if it should not be paid
                                back, I don't know that the State of Indiana would suffer very
                                severely; it would only be loaning this money to all the citizens
                                instead of to four or five borrowers in each county. I understand it
                                to be a direct loan to all the citizens of the State, and I should
                                not oppose a proposition looking to that end. It is known that the
                                credit of the State of Indiana will suffer, unless means are
                                realized in a very short time. Interest is coming due on our debts,
                                and protests following non-payment. I undertake to say that the
                                protest of a solitary bond of the State of Indiana would result in
                                more injury to the State than the entire loss of the $75,000
                                proposed to be borrowed. 

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. The argument urged in favor of the passage of this
                                bill is the same used two years ago, when a loan was made from this
                                same fund. That argument is the plea of necessity: and that same
                                argument has taken possession of more than a million and a half of
                                this fund, and without-any reasonable prospect, at the present time,
                                of its being refunded. The relation the State maintains to this fund
                                is that of trustees-he, holds it in trust for the benefit of the
                                children of the State; and there is a principle that runs all
                                through the relation of a trustee in regard to the trust, that
                                forbids him to lay his hands on the trust estate to convert it to
                                his own use. The people of the State look upon this fund as sacred.
                                [Mr. S. spoke some time in opposition to the bill-urging the
                                adoption of Mr. Murray's amendment if the bill be passed.]

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the motion to recommit was laid on the
                                table-yeas 25, nays 22.

                            Mr. STEELE demanded the previous question.

                            Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual demand fo a call of the House-yeas 22,
                                nays 26.

                            Mr. COBB made an ineffectual motion to adjourn-yeas 18. nays 30.

                            Mr. SLACK. I move a call of the Senate-

                            The PRESIDENT. The Chair will exercise its discretion; as those
                                motions are made fop the purpose of delay, I will decide this motion
                                out of order.

                            Mr. SLACK. I will appeal from the decision of the Chair, and ask time
                                to submit nr appeal in writing.

                            The PRESIDENT. Certainly.

                            On motion of Mr. BLAIR, the appeal was laid on the table-yeas 31,
                                nays 16.

                            Mr.COBB. I move a call of the Senate.

                            The PRESIDENT. The Chair will decide that motion out of order.

                            Mr. COBB. From that decision I appeal.

                            The PRESIDENT. The Chair will not entertain the motion for an
                                appeal.

                            The demand for the previous question was then sustained by 26
                                Senators.

                            Mr. SLACK moved to adjourn.

                            The PRESIDENT. The motion is not in order. The question is on the
                                passage of the bill.

                            The bill failed for want of a constitutional majority-yeas 25, nays
                                23-as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Bearss, Beeson,
                                            Berry, Blair, Campbell, Claypool, Conner, Craven of
                                            Madison, Craves of Jefferson, DeHart, Dickinson, Grubb,
                                            Hamilton, Hull March, Mellett, Miller, Newcomb, Steele,
                                            Stone, Teegarden, Turner, Wagner, and White-25.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Ferguson, Johnson, Jones, Landers, Line, Lomax, Murray,
                                            O'Brien, Odell. Ray, Robinson, Shields, Shoemaker,
                                            Shoulders, Slack, Studabaker, Tarkington, Williams,
                                            Wilson,,and Wolf-23. 
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to recommit with instructions to strike out
                                "sinking fund" and insert ''Bank of the State."

                            Mr. JOHNSON submitted additional Instructions to strike out from the
                                enacting clause and insert a new bill.

                            On motion of Mr. WAGNER, the motions to recommit were laid on the
                                table-yeas 26. nays 21.

                            Mr. WAGNER moved that the bill take its place on the files.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON ineffectually moved-yeas 19, nays 26-to table this
                                motion.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON, moved to recommit the bill'with instructions to
                                amend, so that the whole amount due the common school fund, with the
                                amount we now want to borrow, be borrowed from whatever fund the
                                bill may provide.

                            Mr. MURRAY submitted additional instructions to amend., by providing
                                for the re-payment of this fund out of the revenues of the several
                                counties to which the fund to be borrowed may belong,

                            On motion by Mr. ROBINSON, the motion to recommit were laid on the
                                table-yeas 27, nays 20.

                            Mr. ROBINSON. I move for a re-vote upon the bill. I do this because
                                this bill has been put through here under the previous question, and from my timidity I did not
                                have an opportunity of giving my opinion in regard to it. Upon
                                reflection, I am satisfied, under the operation of the embezzlement
                                bill passed yesterday this money now sought to be borrowed, must and
                                will be paid back, in accordance with the provisions of this bill,
                                in May next. The only reason why I voted against the bill upon its
                                final passage, was from the fact that I thought it was a reasonable
                                proposition, that the State revenue should be retained by the
                                several county treasurers, and applied as though distributed by the
                                sinking fund commissioners, [as proposed in the instructions
                                submitted by Mr. Murray.] These are the reasons why I submit the
                                motion asking a re-vote upon the question, and upon that I call-the
                                previous question.

                            Mr. LINE. It is not in order for a gentleman who voted against a
                                proposition, to move a reconsideration.

                            Mr. CRAVEN. I move for a re-vote.

                            This motion was agreed to.

                            Mr. WOLFE made an ineffectual motion to adjourn-yeas 14, nays 27.

                            Mr. CRAVEN demanded the previous question, and the demand was
                                seconded by 26 Senators.

                            The bill was then finally passed, by yeas 26, nays 11-as follows
                                :

                            
                                
                                    

                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Bearss, Beeson,
                                            Berry, Blair, Campbell, Claypool, Conner, Craven of
                                            Madison, Cravens of Jefferson, DeHart, Dickinson, Grubb,
                                            Hamilton, Hull, March, Mellett, Miller, Newcomb,
                                            Robinson, Steele, Stone, Teegarden, Turner, Wagner, and
                                            White26.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Carnahan, Ferguson,
                                            Johnson, Line, Lomax, O'Brien, Odell, Ray, Studabaker,
                                            Williams and Wilson-11.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                             Mr. JOHNSON moved to amend the-title, viz: "A bill for the purpose
                                of stealing the school fund."

                            This motion was rejected by yeas 9, nays 30.

                            And then came the recess till 2. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a communication from the
                                Attorney-General, in reply to a resolution concerning the Calumet
                                feeder data. On Mr. TURNER'S motion, it was laid on the table and
                                200 copies ordered printed.

                            Mr. LINE Offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                requiring the Committee on Finance to inquire
                                whether legislation is necessary to carry more fully into effect the
                                provisions of the act of March 5, '59, relative to the salaries of
                                public officers, &c. 


                            
                                STOCK KILLED BY RAILROADS.
                                The PRESIDENT announced the order to be the consideration of
                                    Senator Craven's bill 48-see page 59 Of these Reports-the
                                    question being on recommitting, with instructions pending at the
                                    time of adjournment last Monday.

                                 Mr. CRAVEN hoped the Senator from Ripley or other Senators will
                                    not attempt to load down this proposition with amendments that
                                    will tend to kill it; but that the Senate will consent to take a
                                    direct vote upon it.

                                Mr. HULL desired to deal justice to both farmers and railroads,
                                    and insisted upon his instructions with regard to the killing of
                                    stock at the crossings of highways.

                                On motion by Mr. COBB, the motions to recommit were laid on the
                                    table.

                                Mr. JOHNSON moved to recommit, with instructions to strike out
                                    the word "two-thirds" and insert the word "one-half." He was not
                                    here particularly to legislate for those who allow their stock
                                    to run at large for the purpose of being killed by railroads,
                                    but was willing to divide this thing equally and fairly. He did
                                    not think the railroads should be made to pay more than one-half
                                    the value of stock killed by accident.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB doubted whether the Supreme Court would sustain this
                                    bill if passed into a law. There is no justice in requiring
                                    roads to pay for stock killed at the crossings of streets or
                                    highways. The bill should be entitled "An act to fence up the
                                    State of Indiana," for it requires, by implication, that all the
                                    public highways should be fenced up. It is in effect repealing
                                    the highway law. He had no hesitation in voting against the
                                    bill. 

                                The motion to recommit was rejected.

                                Mr. MARCH suggested that a justice of the peace should have
                                    jurisdiction only in the amount usual. The bill now gives
                                    concurrent jurisdiction to judges of circuit and common pleas
                                    courts and justices of the peace. He moved to recommit, with
                                    instructions to amend by adding, that "actions brought under the
                                    provisions of tills act shall be governed by the same rules as
                                    to the jurisdiction and fixing of costs, as far as relates to
                                    matters" in,controversy, as in other civil cases." 

                                Mr. BEESON submitted further instructions, providing that said
                                    stock so killed were adjacent to the land or in care of the
                                    owner of said stock.

                                Mr. CRAVEN made an ineffectual motion to lay this motion to refer
                                    on the table. The bill was then recommitted with the
                                    instructions submitted. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE STATE BORROWING MONEY.
                                Mr. MURRAY submitted the following protest, which he asked be
                                    placed on the journals:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                             In protesting against the passage of the House bill,
                                                providing for borrowing seventy-five thousand
                                                dollars out of the school fund in the hands of the
                                                Sinking Fund Commissioners, for the purpose of
                                                paying the current expenses of the Legislature, and
                                                other debts of the State, the undersigned would give
                                                a few of the reasons for protesting against the
                                                passage of the bill.

                                            1st. This Sinking Fund, principal and interest, was
                                                set apart for the education of the children of the
                                                State. After the expiration of the charter of the
                                                old State Bank, the Legislature passed an act
                                                authorizing the Sinking Fund Commissioners to
                                                distribute this fund among the several counties of
                                                the State, the principal to be loaned out in small
                                                sums upon good mortgaged security, and the interest
                                                to be divided among the several townships for
                                                educational purposes. The undersigned protests
                                                against the passage of this loan bill as a violation
                                                of this act.

                                            2d. Various amounts from time to time have been
                                                abstracted by the State from this fund under similar
                                                pretexts, and not one dollar either of principal or
                                                interest has ever been repaid. The undersigned
                                                protests against this bill as likely, to result in a
                                                like loss to the fund. 
                                            

                                            3rd. The State as a mere custodian or trustee of this
                                                fund, has no right morally or legally to appropriate
                                                it to its own use. If squandered, there is no power
                                                of redress. No bond-holder to say pay me what thou
                                                owest," and enforce by legal remedies against the
                                                State the obligation which she assumes. In behalf of
                                                a portion of the defenceless children of the State,
                                                the undersigned protests against the passage of the
                                                bill for this reason.

                                            4th. As it is well known this Legislature must
                                                provide for a deficency in the receipts of the State
                                                to meet the current liabilities of former
                                                administrations to the amount of a million of
                                                dollars, which, added to the heavy and increasing
                                                public debt, puts it beyond the power to provide out
                                                of the public revenues (at an ordinary levy which is
                                                proposed to be laid upon the taxable property of the
                                                State for the coming two years for the repayment of
                                                this loan from the school funds), the provision in
                                                the bill requiring It to be paid back in ninety days
                                                cannot be complied with. The undersigned protests
                                                against it for this reason.

                                            5th. There is no necessity for borrowing this amount,
                                                or any other amount from the school funds, as the
                                                Bank of the State stood ready to loan the State the
                                                required amount. Also, there are plenty of funds in
                                                the several county treasuries belonging to the
                                                State, amply sufficient to meet all present
                                                liabilities, awaiting the requisition of the State
                                                Treasurer, and upon a simple demand of that officer,
                                                would have been forwarded. For this reason, also,
                                                the undersigned protests against the passage of the
                                                bill.

                                            The undersigned further protests against its passage,
                                                because a proposition offered by himself, providing
                                                for the re-payment of this sum to the school fund,
                                                by making it the duty of the county treasurers, upon
                                                the proper information from the fund commissioners,
                                                to retain their proportionate share so borrowed, out
                                                of the State revenue in their hands, was voted down
                                                by the Senate, establishing the fact beyond
                                                controversy, that the friends of the bill did not
                                                intend the amount so abstracted to be repaid out of
                                                the revenues of the current year. He cannot but view
                                                the system now inaugurated as jeopardizing the whole
                                                school fund, and consequently the educational
                                                interests of the State. 
                                            
                                                Respectfully submitted,
                                                C. L. MURRAY
                                            


                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                                Mr. SLACK moved that Mr. Cobb have leave to vote upon the passage
                                    of the loan bill.

                                On motion by Mr. LINE, this motion was laid on the table-yeas 26,
                                    nays 15.

                                Mr. COBB moved that Mr. Slack have leave to vote upon the passage
                                    of the loan bill.

                                On motion by Mr. WAGNER, this motion was laid on the table-yeas
                                    27, nays 16.

                                [Pending these proceedings, humorous remarks were indulged in by
                                    several Senators causing frequent and general convulsions of
                                    laughter.]

                                The PRESIDENT said that, inasmuch as the Senate had indulged in
                                    considerable merriment, and two votes had been taken indicating
                                    the feeling of Senators, he should decide further motions of
                                    this kind out of order, unless under a suspension of the
                                    rules.

                                By consent, Mr. SHIELDS had leave to record his vote in the
                                    negative, on the passage of the bill.

                                The bill [H. R. 190] To provide for the expenses (30,000) of the
                                    present Legislature, was read the second time ; the rules were
                                    suspended-yeas 36, nays 2-and the bill was read the third time,
                                    and finally passed by yeas 38, nays 2. 
                            
                            

                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                Senate bills were read the second time, and referred to
                                    Committees, viz:

                                
                                    Finance-Messrs. Miller's 186, 197,
                                        March's 190, Wilson's 196, Stone's 207, Claypool's
                                        208.

                                    Judiciary-Messrs. Conner's 187,
                                        Murray's 189, Wilson's202, Landers' 204, O'Brien's 205,
                                        March's 206, 209.

                                    Organization of Courts-Messrs. DeHart's
                                        188.

                                    Roads-Messrs. Hull's 192, White's
                                        193.

                                    County and Township Business-Mr.
                                        Stone's 194.

                                    Agriculture-Messrs. Carnahan's 195,
                                        Conner's 200.

                                    Education-Mr. Turner's 198.Messrs.
                                        Cobb's 199, and Cravens' 201 were ordered engrossed.
                                

                                Pending the reading of these bills Mr. LINE made an ineffectual
                                    motion-yeas 27, nays 12-to read a second time his bill 210,
                                    introduced this morning.

                                Mr. MILLER, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                    returned his bill [90] defining the meaning of the words ''final
                                    judgments," recommending passage: which report was concurred in.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                COMMITMENT ON FAILURE TO PAY COSTS.
                                On motion by Mr. COBB, the vote concurring in a Committee report,
                                    indefinitely postponing his bill 3on page 13 of these Reports
                                    was re-considered.

                                The question recurring on concurring in the Committee report-

                                Mr. MARCH opposed the bill.

                                Messrs. COBB and WOLFE favored.

                                After further remarks by Messrs. CRAVEN and NEWCOMB-

                                The PRESIDENT called attention to a standing rule, viz : "When a
                                    question is postponed indefinitely, the same shall not be acted
                                    upon during the session."

                                [Leave of absence was obtained for Mr. Stone during the week.]
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. WAGNER, under a suspension of the rules, introduced a bill
                                    [218] To amend section 1 of an act to enable trustees to receive
                                    lands and donations, and to convey the same for the use of
                                    schools, churches, &c., approved June 18, 1652.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON introduced a bill [219] to amend section 7 of an
                                    act to amend sections 207 and 208 of the practice act, approved
                                    June 18, 1852.

                                [Mr. BEARSS presented a petition from citizens of a township in
                                    Kosciusko county, praying that sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 17 and 18 in
                                    said county be attached to Fulton county by legislative
                                    enactment, which was referred to a Select Committee of
                                    three.]

                                The Senate then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, February 20, 1861.
                        

                        Mr. McLEAN asked and obtained leave for the Committee to investigate the
                            Wabash and Erie canal to sit this morning during the session of the
                            House.

                        The journal of yesterday having been read-

                        The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the State
                            Librarian, transmitting the Secretary's (John B. Dillon's) report of
                            ther Tansactions of the Indiana Historical Society, in conformity with
                            the 4th section of the act of March 4, 1859. 

                        

                        
                            ORDER OF BUSINESS.
                            The SPEAKER announced a change in the order of business, viz : 1.
                                Petitions ; 2. Reports from standing committees. 3. From select
                                committees. 4. At 10 o'clock the orders of the day will be taken
                                up-the second reading of bills. 5. At 11 o'clock, bills on the third
                                reading.

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM. Mr. Holcomb's resolution for two sessions a
                                day (including Saturday,) was adopted by unanimous consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. PROW presented the petition of citizens of Indiana, without
                                respect to party, asking the General Assembly to instruct the
                                commissioners to the Washington convention appointed by the
                                Governor, to co-operate with the friends of compromise on the basis
                                of the Crittenden propositions, or some other basis equally fair and
                                honorable; and that our Senators in Congress be instructed, and our
                                Representatives requested, to support some compromise on that or a
                                like basis.

                            Mr. COOPRIDER presented a similar petition, signed by 207
                                citizens.

                            Mr. EDSON presented two petitions of a similar character, from
                                citizens of Poseyville and Stewartsville, both numerously signed,
                                without distinction as to party.

                            These petitions were severally referred to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen.

                            Mr. FISHER presented the petition of the Grand Division of the Order
                                of Sons of Temperance, praying for the repeal of all laws on the
                                subject of the sale of intoxicating liquors, and the passage of a
                                law distinctly defining a nuisance; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance. 
                        
                        

                        
                            APPORTIONMENT.
                            Mr. VEATCH, (in behalf of Mr. Bingham, absent,) from the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary, returned Mr.
                                Hayes's resolution, inquiring into the constitutionality of a law
                                apportioning the State for representative purposes, without the
                                prescribed constitutional causes-with the expression of opinion that
                                such a law would be constitutional. The committee reason to show
                                that this constitutional clause is merely directory, giving an
                                example of the construction of section 5, article 7 of the
                                constitution, requiring the Judges of the Supreme Court to give a
                                statement in writing of every question arising in each case, which
                                they have refused to do, viewing said section as directory merely.
                                The analogy between these cases is obvious. The committee believe
                                the Legislature have full power to enact a constitutional
                                apportionment law.

                            The report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RESIDENCE.
                            Mr. CASON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Folk's joint resolution [22] To amend the Constitution of the
                                State with reject to the residence of a voter, with anamendment
                                striking out "60," and inserting "30"-[days' residence in the
                                township to constitute a voter.]

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend the amendment by striking out "30,"
                                and inserting "10," which was rejected.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG then proposed "15" days, and demanded the yeas and
                                nays.

                            Mr. PROSSER hoped the amendment would not prevail. Thirty days was
                                short time enough.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, concurred in this 6pinion: and appealed
                                against wasting time by calling the yeas and nays.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment was rejected-yeas 20, nays 59.

                            On motion of Mr. EDSON, the report was concurred in.

                            The question being, Shall the resolution pass ?

                            Mr. DAVIS. All these amendments of the Constitution will amount to
                                nothing ; therefore he should vote against this.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. It would work the disqualification of one-tenth of
                                the legal voters of the State. A large portion of the population of
                                the State were of a migratory character-laboring men.

                            Mr. JENKINSON concurred in this view.

                            Mr. BUNDY thought thirty days an unnecessary length of time to
                                establish the fact of residence. The only means of preserving our
                                institutions was the protection of the ballot box; but looking to
                                the removal of the evils invading it, we ought to see that we do not
                                create a greater evil. He verily believed this amendment, if
                                consummated, would disfranchise 20,000 voters in this State, making
                                reference to Methodist preachers compelled to move every year. The
                                subject was passed over for-

                            Mr. Prosser's bill [243] fixing the times of Courts in the First
                                Judicial Circuit, coming up in order in the calendar of bills on the
                                second reading; it was ordered to be engrossed: Also, the
                                    Judiciary Committee's bill [238.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. Kendrick's bill 228; Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bills 231, 236;
                                Mr. Atkisson's bill 234; Ways and Means bill 237; Mr. Bundy's bill
                                246, with an amendment taking from the judges the power to appoint
                                substitutes to hold courts for them; Mr. Hopkin's bill 248; Mr.
                                Mutz's bill 249; Mr. Underwood'8250 with Mr. Ferguson's amendment;
                                Mr. Jenkinson's 252 ; Mr. McLean's 253; Mr. Brett's 254, and Mr.
                                Branham's bill 235, with his amendment, "so as to include lands sold
                                by the Auditor that have been mortgaged to the Trust Funds, and to
                                secure the Trust Funds of this State," coming up in order, they were
                                severally referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary.

                            Mr. Brucker's bill 232; and Mr. McLean's 239, with Mr. Bundy's
                                amendment, "Provided that all schools and colleges, owned and conducted by individuals shall be
                                taxed as other property;" and with Mr. Hopkin's amendment, were
                                referred to the Committee on Education.

                            Mr. Collins of Whitley's bill 230, with Mr. Folk's amendment, was
                                referred to the Committee on Corporations.

                            Mr. Robert's bill 245, and Mr. Jones of Vermillion's 233; Mr. Black's
                                Committee bill 241, with Mr. Speaker Alien's amendment, to remove
                                Greene county from the Third to the Sixth Circuit; Mr, Jones of
                                Tippecanoe's bill 244; and Mr. Gore's bill 251, were referred to the
                                    Committee on the Organization of Courts.

                            Mr. Bryant's Tippecanoe Battle Ground bill 242, with Mr. Fisher's
                                amendment, to provide for repairing the present fence, and Mr.
                                Black's to strike out "iron" and insert "wooden;" and Mr. Veatch's
                                bill 247, with Mr. Fishers' amendment, striking out the emergency
                                and publication clause, were referred to the Committee on
                                    Ways and Means.

                            Mr. Pitt's bill 256. with Mr. Wood's amendment (not read) were
                                referred to the Committee on Agriculture. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CONVENTIONAL INTEREST.
                            The House now resumed the consideration of the Conventional Interest
                                bill-the question being on Mr. Stotsenberg's motion to indefinitely
                                postpone Mr. Branham's amendment to make the rate six per cent, and
                                strike out the usury clause.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG withdrew the motion. What was there in the bill that
                                relates to usury ?The Clerk read the 5th section.

                            Mr. WOODHULL reasoned in favor of the amendment. If it was wrong to
                                take usury, it was wrong to offer and to pay it; and a man should
                                not be allowed to take advantage of his own wrong. This was the only
                                thing, he thought, that could be carried through the House.

                            Mr. FRASIER. Did the bill repeal former laws?

                            The Clerk read the repealing clause. 

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and there was a
                                second.

                            Mr. DAVIS required an explanation of the effect of the amendment. 

                            The SPEAKER said the bill provides that. if a greater rate of
                                interest than 10 per cent is contracted for, the contract shall not
                                therefore be void; but if an action on such contract is brought, the
                                plaintiff shall only recover his principal, without interest. The
                                amendment provides six per cent, and that the plaintiff shall
                                recover that, without respect to the excess contracted for.

                            Mr. BUNDY was in favor of the latter portion of the amendment.

                            Mr. ROBERTS demanded a division of the question.

                            The SPEAKER. The question will have to be taken separately. There are
                                two propositions relating to different portions of the bill. The
                                first question will be on the proposition to strke out "10," and
                                insert "6"

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG demanded the yeas and nays, and the same being
                                ordered and taken the amendment was adopted-yeas 50, nays 35: and
                                the amendment of the 5th section striking out the 5th section usury
                                clause, was also adopted-yeas 68, nays 14.

                            Mr. BRANHAM moved that the bill be referred to the Committee
                                    on the Judiciary, with instructions to perfect,
                                &c.

                            Mr. DAVIS proposed to amend, by allowing, the plea of usury, where
                                the contract exceeds 10 per cent:

                            The SPEAKER ruled it out of order.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to instruct the committee to amend by
                                inserting, that no individual or corporation, banking or otherwise,
                                shall in any case charge, receive, or contract for any greater rate
                                of interest than 6 per cent., including exchange, &c.

                            Mr. KNOWLTON moved to indefinitely postpone the bill and
                                amendment.

                            Mr. WOODHULL moved to lay this motion on the table.

                            Mr. EDSON demanded the yeas and nays, which being taken resulted-yeas
                                65, nays 21: so the motion was-laid on the table. And then Mr.
                                Stotsenborg's amendment was laid on the-table.

                            The bill was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The SPEAKER laid before the House the response of the Attorney
                                General to a resolution of'the House, in relation to the, Calumet
                                Feeder Dam, The Attorney General considers that the dam might be
                                abated, as though it bad been erected without color of legal
                                authority. The State of Illinois would have to be made defendant,
                                &c., which makes it reasonable that the State of Indiana ought,
                                to sue. It was referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, with instructions to report a bill, or
                                joint resolution, authorizing the State to sue the State of
                                Illinois, conformably to the opinion of the Attorney General. 


                            
                                EMBEZZLEMENT BILL.
                                The Senate amendment to the embezzlement bill [H. R. 1], viz.,
                                    add to the 10th section these word: "except so much and so far
                                    only as provides punishment for the same identical offense," and
                                    verbal amendments coming up in order, they, were concurred in;
                                    and the bill passed as amended by yeas 67, nays 14.

                                Messages from the Senate announced the passage, of Mr.. Branham's
                                    ($75,000) loan bill and his bill providing for the expenses of
                                    tb present General Assembly, in that body without amendment.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                ADMINISTRATORS COMPENSATION.
                                Mr. Edson's engrossed bill [9], amending the section 148 of the
                                    decendents' estate act, coming up-

                                

                                Mr. EDSON explained that the bill was to change the compensation
                                    allowed to administrators. The law now requires that the
                                    administrator shall make a sworn statement of his services, upon
                                    which the court shall allow such compensation as it shall deem
                                    to be just. It was almost impossible to determine the exact time
                                    and labor expended, and to make a satisfactory award. The
                                    amendment, therefore proposes not less than 5 per cent. cent, to
                                    the administrator on the first thousand dollars, and not less
                                    than 8 per cent, on all sums over that amount.

                                Mr. BUNDY doubted the propriety of the bill. The bill gave the
                                    courts no discretion. There was once such a statute in this
                                    State, and it was substituted by the present law. 

                                Mr. CRAIN. The present law was much better than the change
                                    proposed in the bill. This compensation ought to be left to the
                                    sound discretion of the court.

                                Mr. EDSON stated that the amendment left the discretion to the
                                    judge as to the minimum of remuneration.

                                Mr. PARRETT demanded the previous question, and under its
                                    operation the bill was rejected-yeas 9, nays 70. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NOTICE TO THE OPPOSITE PARTY.
                                The Judiciary Committee's engrossed bill
                                    [107], to amend the section 343 of the Practice act [providing
                                    for notice to the opposite party], coming up-it was passed the
                                    first reading in the House of Representatives-yeas 39, nays
                                    1.

                                Mr. Williams' engrossed bill [103] to provide for the erection
                                    and repairs of any bridge across a stream of water forming the
                                    boundary-line between two counties, and to repeal former acts in
                                    reference thereto, coming up, it passed the final reading-yeas
                                    73, nays 6.

                                Mr. Robert's engrossed Promissory Note bill [167. to make the
                                    title of the act conform to the law itself, to cover all the
                                    instruments of writing mentioned in the first section of the
                                    existing act,] coming up, it was passed the final reading in the
                                    House-yeas 68, nays 0.

                                Mr. McLean's engrossed bill [44] to amend the first section of
                                    the act of March 5, 1859, providing for the management and,
                                    disposal of the estate's of persons who. have absented
                                    themselves from their usual place pf residence and gone to parts
                                    unknown, [two years instead of ten years, the estate becomes
                                    subject to administration,] coming up-

                                Mr. McLEAN explained, that it was simply to Correct a clerical
                                    mistake in the-law of the last session, by which the clerk wrote
                                    "ten" instead of "two", so making the amendment of that session
                                    worse than the old common law of seven years.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG desired to make the absence three years, before
                                    proceedings.

                                Mr. DAVIS objecting, understood that a bill could not be amended
                                    oh the third reading.

                                The SPEAKER: It can be done by unaninimous consent.

                                The bill was passed the final reading-yeas 62, nays 5. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW BILLS.
                                The order for the introduction of bills was now entertained by
                                    unanimous consent, and the following were submitted and passed
                                    to the second reading:

                                Mr. Packard: [263] To amend section 17 of the act of March 5,
                                    1859, fixing the times of the Common Pleas Court, &c.

                                Mr. Crain : [264] To amend; the 54th section of the act of June
                                    11th, 1852, providing for the incorporation of towns, defining
                                    their powers, &c.

                                Mr. Stotsenberg: [265] To amend section 14 of the act of March 1,
                                    1859, amendatory of the general corporation law of March 9,
                                    1857.

                                Mr. Knowlton: [266] For the purchase of certain volumes of
                                    Blackford's Reports, and providing for the distribution
                                    thereof-[600 volumes, at $5 a volume-to be distributed in the
                                    same manner as the Indiana Reports].

                                Mr. Bundy : [267] To amend section 6 of the act of May 12, 1852,
                                    to authorize the construction of plank, macadamized, and
                                    graveled roads, and to add a supplemental section to said
                                    act.

                                Mr. Smith of Bartholomew : [2681 Providing for the service of
                                    summons in actions against sheriffs and their sureties or
                                    official bonds.

                                Mr. Hurd : [269] Supplemental to the act to establish a bank with
                                    branches. [The Bank of the State may alter or re-district any
                                    bank district in the State, provided that no Branch shall be
                                    located in any town where one is already located and doing
                                    business.]

                                Mr. Dobbins : [270] To amend section 464 of the Practice act.

                                Mr. Bundy: [271] To authorize turnpike, plank, and gravel road
                                    companies heretofore incorporated, to use material for repairs,
                                    &c.

                                Mr. Edson: [272] To amend sections 656 ,nd 661 of the Practice
                                    act.

                                Mr. Black: [273] To amend section 75 of the assessment act of
                                    June 21, 1852.

                                Mr. Owens: [274] Relative to the fees of county auditors, and
                                    repealing former laws in conflict therewith.

                                Mr. Bundy [275] Authorizing turnpike, plank and graveled road
                                    companies heretofore incorporated, to alter the time of holding
                                    the annual elections of directors of such companies, and
                                    repealing all laws in conflict therewith.

                                Mr. Stotsenberg: [276] To amend the 12th section of the act
                                    regulating the fees of officers, repealing former acts &c.,
                                    so as to give prosecuting attorneys a docket fee in divorce
                                    cases.

                                Mr. Bundy: [277] To amend section 1 of the act of March 5, 1855,
                                    providing for the election or appointment of supervisors of
                                    highways, and prescribing certain of their duties, and those of
                                    county and township officers in relation thereto.

                                Mr. Stotsenberg: [278] Respecting the assignment of goods by way of
                                    mortgage, prescribing what goods they shall cover.

                                Mr. Knowlton: [279] Supplemental to the game law, [shall not hunt
                                    on the premises of of another without leave.]

                                Mr. Hopkins: [280] To repeal the act providing for voluntary
                                    assignments of personal and real property in trust for the
                                    benefit of creditors, and regulating the mode thereof, approved
                                    March 5, 1859.

                                Mr. Edson : [281] For compensation of district attorneys, and
                                    regulating their fees.

                                On motion of Mr. NEWMAN, (by unanimous consent,) the bill [S. 86]
                                    to amend the general banking law, was taken up and passed the
                                    first reading.

                                On motion of Mr. WILLIAMS, (by unanimous consent,) the bill [S.
                                    177] to amend the 5th section of the common pleas act of last
                                    session, was considered on the second reading, and referred to a
                                    Select Committee of one member from each county in the district
                                    affected.

                                Mr. JENKINSON submitted an order to re turn his bill [No. 5] to
                                    the Senate, striking out a certain clerical interpolation,
                                    which, he said, did not affect the sense of the bill.

                                Mr. WOODHULL raised the point of order that the matter could not
                                    be reached without re-consideration.

                                The SPEAKER, (Mr. Bundy in the Chair,) sustained the point. 
                            
                            

                            
                                STATE OF THE UNION.
                                Mr. STOTSENBERG submitted a resolution, to the effect, That the
                                        Committee of Thirteen, to whom has been
                                    referred all matters and resolutions of a national character,
                                    be, and they are hereby instructed and required on next Monday
                                    afternoon to make a final report to this House on all matters
                                    and resolutions of a national character, heretofore referred to
                                    them.

                                After debate, in which general speeches were made in favor of the
                                    resolution, by Mr. Roberts, Mr. Packard, Mr. Stotsenberg and Mr.
                                    Davis; and against it by Mr. Woodhull and Mr. Speaker Allen-

                                On motion af Mr. DAVIS, the resolution was passed over.

                                Mr. Speaker ALLEN (by unanimous consent) introduced a bill [282,]
                                    to amend section 14 of the act providing for the election and
                                    qualification of justices of the peace, denning their
                                    jurisdiction, powers and duties in civil cases; which was passed
                                    to the second reading.

                                The House then adjourned 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            THURSDAY, February 21, 1861.
                        

                        Two hours were spent in reading the Secretary's journal of yesterday, and
                            in efforts to correct it.

                        Mr. SLACK moved that the journal be so corrected as to show that Mr. Cobb
                            moved a call of the Senate on yesterday, which the Chair decided out of
                            order; and that motion for an appeal from that decision was also decided
                            out of order.

                        On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, this motion to correct the journal was laid on
                            the table by yeas 23, nays 22.

                        [A message from the House announced th passage of House bills 44, 103,
                            107 and 167, and its concurrence in the Senate joint resolution [7]-see
                            pages 58 and 59 of these Reports-on the condition of National
                            affiars.

                        Mr. NEWCOMB moved to approve the journal.

                        Mr. LINE offered the following:

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Assistant Secretary of
                                        the Senate be required to make a full and complete record of
                                        all motions, resolutions, rulings of the Chair, and all
                                        other matters transacted in the Senate while in session.
                                
                                
                            
                        

                         Which lies on the table one day under the rules.

                        Mr. WAGNER made an ineffectual demand for the previous question.

                        Mr. SLACK moved to amend the motion to correct the journal by providing
                            that it shall show that he made a motion on yesterday to adjourn which
                            was ruled out of order by the Chair.

                        Mr. WILLIAMS moved to refer this matter to a Select Committee.

                        On motion by Mr. WAGNER-yeas 25, nays 21-the whole subject was laid on
                            the table. 

                        
                            FEDERAL RELATIONS.
                            The PRESIDENT announced the special order for the hour of 10 o'clock
                                to be the consideration of the minority report of the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations, identical
                                with the joint resolution S. 4-see pages 44 and 45 of the Brevier Legislative Reports. On Mr. WILLIAMS'
                                motion, it was made the order for Saturday at that hour.

                            [Mr. WAGNER presented a petition, which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Agriculture without reading.]
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE

                            Were made and concurred in, viz:

                            
                                By Mr. MILLER: Returning Senator O'Brien's bill 179-see page
                                    226 of these Reports-recommending that it lie on the
                                    table.

                                By Mr. SLACK: His bill 104-see page 159-passage with
                                    amendments.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Senator Newcomb's 170-see page
                                    212-passage.

                                By Mr. CONNER: His bill [18*7] repealing the act extending
                                    terms of the circuit court-passage with amendments.

                                By Mr. SLACK: His bill [178] allowing county clerks to hold
                                    courts of conciliation-passage with amendments.
                            

                            Mr. MARCH. I undertake to say this bill is unconstitutional. It
                                proposes to make clerks mediators between conflicting parties, when
                                it is to their interest to multiply litigation and summonses for
                                witnesses. Would any suit ever be conciliated ? admitting that
                                clerks have the capacity? A bill having the same object was killed
                                here a few days ago, [see pages 193 and 194 of these Reports,] and
                                now the Senator endeavors to do covertly what he could not do open
                                and above board.

                            

                            Mr. SLACK. I have seen innumerable in-stances for compromise before a
                                court of justice utterly fail. A clerk of court is just as competent
                                to act in this capacity as a judge of common pleas. I disclaim all
                                intention of an attempt to destroy this court, but desire to make it
                                convenient, so that at any time it may be reached. In many portions
                                of the state it would take two days for the judge to meet at a given
                                point to hold his court of conciliation and in many cases the ends
                                of justice would be entirely frustrated.

                            Mr. MARCH again spoke in opposition to the bill.

                            Mr. RAY held that the Constitution was in no wise infringed by the
                                report of the Committee. This court is a humbug and a fraud upon the
                                community of the State, because it secures the confidence of the
                                people through artful arguments appealing to the passions and not to
                                the intelligence of men. This thing can be kept up a few years
                                longer, but it is destined to go down from its own weakness, for it
                                never did any good.

                            Mr. HULL moved to concur in the Committee report by adding the words
                                "justices of the peace."

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. if satisfied this court subserves the ends of public
                                justice, would be willing to extend its jurisdiction. [He spoke in
                                opposition to the bill.]

                            Mr. MILLER stood by the Senator from Delaware, [Mr. Marsh] for this
                                bill has been gotten up for the express purpose of destroying these
                                courts. He knew of more than fifty cases which have been settled by
                                this court; but opposed conferring these kind of powers upon clerks
                                of courts, for they were incompetent, as a general thing.

                            Mr. DEHART submitted an additional amendment, that "the costs shall
                                abide the event of the suits without reference to the action of said
                                courts of conciliation."

                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the whole question was indefinitely
                                postponed by yeas 29, nays 13.[Leave of absence was obtained for Mr.
                                Murray till Tuesday.]

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Reports were continued from the Judiciary
                                    Committee, and concurred in by the Senate, as
                                follows:

                            
                                By Mr. WOLFE: returning his bill 102-see page 159 of these
                                    Reports-recommending passage with amendments.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: his bill [206] concerning decedents'
                                    estates-passage.

                                By MARCH: his bill [209] to amend the practice
                                    act-passage.

                                By Mr. NEWCOMB: Senator Mellett's 45-see page 69-passage with
                                    amendments.

                                By Mr. MILLER: Senator Ferguson's 174-see page 212-indefinite
                                    postponement.
                            

                            Mr. FERGUSON explained the provisions of his bill, and objected to
                                concurrence in the committee's report.

                            Mr. MILLER sustained the action of the committee.

                            Mr. ANTHONY thought this rather a summary way of disposing of so
                                important a question.

                            Mr. MARCH would like to see the bill re-committed.

                            On motion of Mr. MILLER, the bill was recommitted. 


                            
                                PERFECT RAILROAD TITLES.
                                Mr. CONNER, from a Select Committee, returned Senator Hamilton's
                                    bill 31-see page 45 of these Reports-on the third reading (being
                                    identical with the bill H. R. 33;) with amendments.

                                Mr. C. explained the amendments as follows : The first amendment
                                    submitted requires that a majority in interest, stockholders as
                                    well as creditors, shall agree upon the sale, or plan of
                                    adjustment, before they can be benefitted by this act; and such
                                    reorganized companies shall exercise no corporate powers
                                    inconsistent with the laws of the State. The bill now requires a
                                    decree of court before any road can be sold. We have made a new
                                    section (4), which provides that when a road shall be sold at
                                    sheriff's sale, under a decree of court, the purchasers shall
                                    reinstate the stockholders and creditors of that road in the
                                    order in which their debts accrued. We have also reserved the
                                    right of the Legislature to alter, amend, or repeal this act,
                                    reserving only the rights of others who may have derived benefit
                                    therefrom during the time the law was in force.

                                Mr. MARCH dissented from the qualification put upon the
                                    amendment, reserving the legislative right to repeal. If
                                    corporations cannot trust the Legislature, how can the
                                    Legislature trust corporations?

                                Mr. CONNER was perfectly willing to strike out the
                                    qualifications; he would not leave anything in the bill that
                                    would injure any citizen of the State of Indiana.

                                This was agreed to by consent.

                                Mr. ANTHONY thought the amendments obviated all his objections to
                                    the bill, and he could now vote for it heartily.

                                The bill was finally passed, by yeas 33, nays 8. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEGROES AND MULATTOES MAY CONVEY.
                                On motion by Mr. BEARS, Senator Slack's bill 104-see page 159 of
                                    these Reports-on its third reading-was taken up and read, with
                                    the committee's amendments thereto.

                                Mr. HAMILTON favored the passage of the bill.

                                Mr. SLACK stated that the bill was intended to affect all persons
                                    of mixed blood. In many portions of the State large amounts of
                                    real estate was held, and is being conveyed by negroes; but his
                                    purpose was to reach Indian lands. In the northern portion of
                                    the State large tracts of land is held by Indians, who are
                                    continually contracting and selling  their real estate. There is no
                                    reason why the bill should not pass.

                                Mr. DeHART hoped the bill would pass, in order to quiet titles in
                                    the Wabash Valley.

                                The bill was finally passed, by yeas 42, nays 1.

                                [On motion by Mr. ROBINSON, the vote of this morning postponing
                                    the special order-Federal Relation-still Saturday 10 o'clock,
                                    was reconsidered, and if, was made the order for Tuesday next at
                                    that hour.]

                                [The Senate assented to the message of the House, asking the
                                    return of the bill H. 25 ; and the House amendments to the joint
                                    resolution [S. 6-see page 158 of these Reports] were referred to
                                    a Select Committee, viz.: Senator March, Line, and Miller.] 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW COUNTIES-COUNTY BOUNDARIES.
                                The bill [H. R. 39-described on pages 223 and 224 of these
                                    Reports] was taken up (on Mr. HULL'S motion) and passed the
                                    first reading. 
                            
                            

                            
                                SUPREME COURT DECISIONS.
                                Senator Claypool's bill [116] concerning the Supreme Court
                                    Reporters, was taken up and read the third time.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL explained that the bill provided for,a speedy
                                    publication of the decisions of the Supreme Court, &c.

                                Mr. STADABAKER was opposed to the bill, because it would
                                    authorize the Reporter to issue a small sized book. He desired
                                    the volumes should be of a uniform size.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB amended the bill, by consent, so that no volume of
                                    decisions shall be published containing; less than 500
                                    pages.

                                Mr. STUDABAKER had no objections.

                                The bill was finally passed as amended, by yeas 40, nays 3. 
                            
                            

                            
                                RELIEF OF TRUST FUND BORROWERS.
                                On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, his bill [114] prescribing; how
                                    mortgages to trust funds may be substituted, &c., was taken
                                    up and read the third time.

                                Mr. N, stated that this bill and the bill 115 was prepared by the
                                    President, of the Sinking Fund Commissioners. He explained its
                                    provisions.

                                Mr. STUDABAKER objected to interference with the loans to the
                                    several counties. He moved to re-commit the bill to the
                                        Finance Committee with instructions to
                                    strike out all that'relates to the loans of the fund in the
                                    various counties.

                                Mr. WAGNER would like to see it recommitted.

                                On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, his bill 115 took the same reference,
                                    with instructions submitted by Mr. MARCH to add "all interest
                                    accrueing thereon shall be accounted for by said commissioners."
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                COMMON PLEAS COURTS.
                                Senator Slack's bill [,175] regulating the business of the common
                                    pleas courts, coming up was read the third time.

                                Mr. S. advocated the passage of his bill. The object of the bill
                                    is to put the business back to where it was previously to the
                                    act of 1859.

                                The bill was finally passed by yeas 26, nays 17.

                                Senator Slack's bill [171] repealing the act providing for the
                                    returns of common pleas juries on the third day of the term, was
                                    read the third time; and failed for want of a constitutional
                                    majority-yeas 24, nays 15. 
                            
                            

                            
                                MICHAEL O'BRIEN'S HEIRS. 
                                Senator Hamilton's bill [107] for the relief of O'Brien's heirs,
                                    was read the third time and finally passed by yeas 39, nays 0. 

                                Senator Claypool's bill [52] prescribing what new trials may be
                                    granted on payment of costs, &c., was read the third
                                    time.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL. The only amendment is the adding of the statute of
                                    1849 which re-quires the granting of new trials upon payment of
                                    costs at the discretion of the court. Simply re-enacting the
                                    statute of 1843.

                                The bill was finally passed by yeas 36 nays 2. 
                            
                            

                            
                                ADVERTISEMENT OF LAND SALES.
                                Senator DeHart's bill [163 to amend section 467 of the practice
                                    act, was read the third time.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL. This bill provides that advertisement of sale of
                                    land shall be made in a newspaper printed in the county where
                                    the land is situate.

                                The bill was finally passed by yeas 38 nays 2. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE SINKING FUND COMMISSIONERS.
                                Senator Wolfe's bill [37] reducing the salary of their President,
                                    from $3,000 to $1,500 was read the third time.

                                Mr. WAGNER opposed the passage of the bill. The gentleman has the
                                    management of $3,000,000, and should receive a good salary; It
                                    is a much more difficult office, than any other in the State. He
                                    moved to indefinitely postpone the bill.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB was surprised at the introduction of this bill: and
                                    thought the salary is nothing more than what it should be.

                                Mr. STEELE thought this a bad move, and should vote against the
                                    bill cheerfully.[These three Senators seemed to vie with each
                                    other in their praise of the present incumbent.]

                                Mr. SLACK approbated the passage of this bill. It is right this
                                    salary should be reduced.

                                Mr. HAMILTON was against reducing the salary.

                                Mr. WOLFE desired to see public officers salaried upon the
                                    principle of equity, &c.

                                Mr. ROBINSON was opposed to, some of the large salaries of public
                                    officers in this State.

                                Mr. RAY. This office is one of fourfold duties; one of these
                                    requiring, the highest legal attainments. He gives bond in the
                                    penalty of $100,000, and is entitled to the compensation he
                                    receives. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, FEB. 26, 1861
                        No. 17
                    

                    
                        
                        
                            Mr. MARCH has heard no good reason why this salary should be
                                reduced.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON, should vote against the reduction and for the motion
                                to indefinitely postpone.

                            Mr. SHIELDS thought $2000 would be sufficient salary for this
                                officer, and with a view to get at the bill so as to thus amend it,
                                he moved to lay the pending motion on the table.

                            This motion was rejected by yeas 6, nays 37.

                            The motion to indefinitely postpone the bill was agreed to by yeas
                                36, nays 6.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. 
                        
                            THURSDAY, February 21,1861.
                        

                        Mr. JENKINSON asked again and now obtained unanimous consent to make a
                            motion to reconsider the vote on the passage of his bill No. 5, to
                            restrict the taxiing power of the County Commissioners, with the object
                            to strike out the words which he had interpolated since it passed the
                            House, but which did not effect the sense of the bill. He wanted to
                            restore the bill as it passed the House, and send it back to the
                            Senate.

                        Mr. WOODHULL objected, too late.

                        Mr. FRASIER did not think the bill was right, and wanted it to sleep. He
                            did not think the House should put the seal of its approbation on the
                            act of the interpolation of words after a bill had passed. He moved to
                            lay the motion to reconsider on the table.

                        The yeas and nays being demanded and taken thereon resulted-yeas 21, nays
                            51 : so the House refused to lay the motion on the table; and then the
                            vote was reconsidered, and the bill takes its place on the Calendar. 

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.
                            Mr. STOTSENBERG presented the petition of 81 citizens of Georgetown
                                township, in Floyd county, without respect to party, asking the
                                General Assembly to instruct the delegation of the State in the
                                Peace Congress, and instruct our Senators and request our
                                Representatives in Congress to co-operate with the Wends of peace
                                upon the basis of the Crittenden propositions, or some other basis
                                equally fair and honorable.

                            Mr. PACKARD presented a similar petition by Andrew W. Porter and
                                others; which petitions were referred to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen.

                            Mr. RANDALL presented the memorial of J. D. Nelson, President of
                                Noble County Agricultural Society, and others, asking for
                                legislation for the protection of sheep from sheep killing dogs;
                                which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            Mr. ANDERSON presented the petition of Jno. Ellis and others,
                                citizens of Elkhart county, for a law declaring that worthless
                                seed-stock shall not be free commoners; which was referred to the
                                same committee.

                            Mr. TURNER presented the claim of Morris & Ray, attorneys, for
                                legal services, $1000; which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Claims.

                            Mr. BURGESS presented the claim of N. F. Cunningham; which was
                                referred (without reading) to the Committee on
                                    Claims. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. WOODHULL, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Brucker's bill [99] to amend the Treasury act of the
                                last session, with a motion to lay it on the table. He stated that
                                the object of the bill was attained in the Embezzlement bill, No
                                1.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned the resolution, for a substantial iron fence around the
                                Governor's Circle, with the expression of opinion that the proposed
                                improvement is inexpedient.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. GIFFORD, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned the petition of sundry citizens of Franklin and Dearborn
                                counties, for legislation to correct the valuation of the Harrison
                                and Brookville Turnpike, with a report, that existing laws provide
                                ample remedy for the case. They refer to the first volume of the
                                Revised Statutes of 1852, chapter 6, sections 82 and 86.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr GROVER, from the Committee on Education,
                                returned the resolution, for the amendment of the School law, so as
                                to require the ten per cent School tax levied in each county, to be
                                retained in the county, and reported a motion that the resolution be
                                referred to the Committee on the Judiciary.

                            The report was concurred in,  He
                                also returned Mr. McLean's bill [239] to amend the 6th section of
                                the Assessment act of June 21, 1852, with pending amendments
                                thereto, recommending that the bill and amendments be laid on the
                                table, and that the bill be amended by striking out and inserting
                                new matter after the enacting clause, [exempting public property
                                from taxation, generally conformable to the bill and instructions
                                referred.]

                            Mr. DAVIS proposed to amend the amendment of the Committee, by
                                striking out "300," and inserting "160." He considered that 160
                                acres was enough to exempt for any institution; which was
                                adopted.

                            Mr. BRANHAM proposed further to amend, by adding "Agricultural
                                Societies," in the proper place; which was adopted.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend further, by adding a clause
                                exempting the property of all persons insane, of idiots, of all
                                blind and deaf and dumb persons to the extent of $800; which was
                                also adopted.

                            Mr. STEVENSON proposed to amend further, by exempting from taxation
                                the personal property of all males over 60 years of age where the
                                same does not exceed $300; which was rejected.

                            The bill, as thus amended, was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. Harvey had leave of absence-sick.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, from the Committee on
                                    Education, returned Mr. Brucker's bill [232, to amend
                                part 6, section 6, of the assessment act, with a motion to lay it on
                                the table; which was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JOHN VALENTINE.
                            Mr. DOBBINS, from the Committee on Claims,
                                returned the petition of Uriah Ballard and others, citizens of
                                Monroe township, Morgan county, with a joint resolution for the
                                relief of John Valentine from the repayment of $180 of said township
                                funds, lost by his deposit thereof in the Indianapolis Savings Bank.
                                He said the petition was signed by the principal taxpayers of the
                                township-signed by nearly every citizen of the township. It was
                                money belonging to the township alone, and they were willing to be
                                taxed for the loss.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Did he deposit in his own name ?

                            Mr. DOBBINS did not know anything about that.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN (Mr. Frasier in the Chair.) The money was deposited
                                in the individual name of the treasurer, who was to receive the
                                interest, &c. It did seem to him that the passage of this joint
                                resolution would be establishing a precedent from which bad results
                                would follow. It would encourage township treasurers to deposit
                                trust funds for their individual benefit, by assuring them that if
                                they lost, they could come back upon the Legislature and be
                                relieved. It would be to Say to them: "If your investments are
                                profitable, you shall have the profits; but if they are not
                                profitable, the people shall sustain the loss." He considered that
                                the Legislature should not establish such a precedent, even if every
                                man in Morgan county should petition for it. 

                            Mr. McLEAN. The people of Monroe township might make up the money by
                                private subscription.

                            Mr. FERGUSON was fully satisfied that the people of Monroe township
                                were willing lose this money. If it was shown on the face of the
                                petition that Mr. Valentine deposited the township money in his own
                                name, he would not press the claim; but he was not so advised. The
                                people generally of Morgan county deposited in the Indianapolis
                                Savings Bank.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. It was a matter that concerns the people of Monroe
                                township. It was wholly their business.

                            On motion by Mr. PARRETT, this proceeding was laid on the table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ANDREW J. GRAY.
                            Mr. SLOAN, from the Committee on Claims returned
                                the memorial of Andrew J. Gray, for a claim of $600 on account of
                                returning fugitives from justice under the order of the Governor;
                                with the expression of opinion that the claim ought to be allowed by
                                the county commissioners.

                            Mr. GRESHAM moved the recommitment of the report.

                            Mr DOBBINS had no doubt Mr. Gray expended the money as he states, but
                                on examination of the Governor's order amongst the papers in the
                                case, he found this statement: That the party executing this paper
                                must do so at his own expense-that the State of Indiana would not be
                                responsible for the cost. Mr. Gray undoubtedly made the arrests,
                                knowing that he had no prospect of remuneration from the State.

                            Mr. GRESHAM and Mr. ROBERTS insisted that there were individual
                                merits in this case, and desired that Mr. Gray should have a full
                                hearing.

                            Mr. SLOAN said the case was precisely similar to that of Matthews and
                                Johnson, which was reported against yesterday by a majority of the
                                same committee.

                            The House refused to recommit, and the report was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OF THE UNION.
                            Mr. BUNDY moved to suspend the order of business and take up the
                                consideration of the Reports of the Majority and Minority of the
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew preferred the order of Reports from
                                Committees.

                            Mr. McLEAN proposed to amend the motion by making the subject of the
                                Reports of the Committee of Thirteen the special
                                order for to-morrow at two o'clock.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and under its operation,
                                Mr. McLean's motion was
                                rejected; Mr. Bundy's motion was adopted, and the orders of the day
                                were suspended.

                            The Majority Report of the Committee of Thirteen
                                being read by the Clerk-

                            [See pages 141, 142 of these Reports.]

                            Mr. BUNDY moved the adoption of the majority report.

                            The SPEAKER. The question is on the of the amendment offered by the
                                gentleman from Floyd.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment, calling for a Convention of the people
                                of the several States, was then read.

                            The demand for the previous question was seconded, affirmative 52,
                                negative not counted.

                            Mr. HEFFREN suggested that the first question would be on the motion
                                of Mr. Sherman, to reject the minority report. All he wanted was a
                                fair and square vote.

                            The SPEAKER No ruling of the Chair could be interposed to prevent a
                                fair and square vote. The Chair explained the order. The first
                                question was on the adoption of Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment. 

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG insisted that under the 8th Rule a member had a right
                                to offer a brief reason for his vote, notwithstanding the previous
                                question.

                            The SPEAKER decided that a member can give his reasons for asking to
                                be excused for not voting ; but not reasons for his vote. His
                                reasons must not apply to the merits of the question.

                            Mr. DOBBINS demanded the yeas and nays, which, being ordered and
                                taken, resulted yeas 36, nays 57: so Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment was
                                rejected, and the question recurred on the adoption of the
                                resolutions reported by A majority of the Committee of
                                    Thirteen.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG asked to be excused, and thereupon said: If I vote
                                for this report, I shall vote against the instructions of my
                                constituents, 19-20ths of whom are for the Crittenden propositions,
                                as well as against the well-known sentiments of the State of
                                Indiana. I shall vote against them because they are like the people
                                of Laodicea of old, they are neither cold nor hot, but lukewarm, and
                                the people of this country will spew them out of their mouths.

                            After Mr. DOBBINS'S demand and withdrawal of the yeas and nays upon
                                talking across the House-

                            The House refused to excuse Mr. Stotsenberg.

                            Mr. DAVIS asking to be excused, said: I cannot vote for this report
                                in justice to my constituents, because they have instructed me to
                                vote for some mode of adjustment which these resolutions do not
                                contain.

                            Mr. EDSON. There is a portion of the majority report that I can
                                approve, but that portion which declares that the citizens of
                                Indiana have not done anything to offend against the South, I cannot
                                vote for, &c.

                            Mr. ROBERTS. I cannot support the resolutions of the majority as an
                                entirety, although there are many things in them, that I do approve.
                                Sir, I approve the preamble as a whole, and also the second, third
                                and fourth resolutions. I could also approve the first resolution as
                                an entirety, were it not for that part of it which says that "we
                                (the people of Indiana) have not, in the past, contributed in any
                                degree to bring about that state of things which threatens to result
                                in overwhelming calamity and unparalleled crime." Sir, this is a
                                grand error as to a part of the people of this
                                State-too grave to receive an indorsement at my hands. There is no
                                denying the fact that the crusade which has and is being prosecuted
                                against the people of the South and their institutions by the
                                Republican-Abolition party of the North has brought upon us the
                                troubles now imperiling us. Therefore, sir, on account of this grave
                                error I shall decline to vote upon the report at all. 

                            Mr. COOPRIDER, I have been at home, and mingled with the citizens of
                                the county of Clay, and have received their positive instructions
                                not to vote for these resolutions. Therefore he asked to be excused
                                from voting.

                            Mr. POLK. I wish to be excused from voting for the majority report,
                                because it offers no remedy to the existing difficulties, but is a
                                dallying with serious and weighty matters.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG desired, "but was refused leave, to propose to amend
                                the resolutions, by adding after the word "citizens." these words,
                                "and that we are in favor of the Border State propositions, or any
                                other honorable and fair plan of adjustment, and we hereby instruct
                                our Delegates to the Washington Convention to that effect."

                            The yeas and nays were now reported yeas 58, nays 26, as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Anderson, Bingham,
                                            Boydston, Branham, Brucker, Bryan, Bundy, Burgess,
                                            Cameron, Campbell, Cason, Grain, Dashiel, Epperson,
                                            Erwin, Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher, Fordyce, Fraley,
                                            Frasier, Gore, Gresham, Grover, Hall, Haworth, Henricks,
                                            Hopkins, Hudson, Kurd, Jones of Tippecanoe, Jones of
                                            Wayne, Kendrick, Lane, Lee, Lightner, Moody, Moorman,
                                            Nebeker, Newman, Orr, Parrett, Eagan, Randall, Sherman,
                                            Sloan, Smith of Miami, Thomas, Thompson, Turner,
                                            Underwood, Veatch, Wells, Williams, Wilson, Woodhull,
                                            Woods, and Mr. Speaker-58.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Black, Brett, Collins of
                                            Adams, Davis, Ford, Gifford, Heffren, Horton, Howard,
                                            Jenkinson, Kitchen, Knowlton, Lods, McLean, Moss, Mutz,
                                            Owens, Packard, Pitts, Polk, Prosser, Prow, Bobbins,
                                            Stevenson, Stotsenberg, and Trier-26.
                                    
                                    

                                
                            

                            The SPEAKER directed the Clerk to enter upon the journal as present
                                and not voting, Messrs. Atkisson, Cooprider, Dobbins, Roberts, Smith
                                of Bartholomew, and Warrum; and that they were not excused by the
                                House.

                            So the majority resolutions were adopted.

                            The SPEAKER announced the next thing in order to be the consideration
                                of the resolutions and report of the minority of the
                                    Committee of Thirteen; and they were read by
                                the Clerk, [See pp. 142, 143 of these reports.] 

                            

                             The SPEAKER announced the next question to be on the motion of Mr.
                                Sherman to reject the minority report.

                            Mr. SHERMAN withdrew the motion.

                            Mr. FRASIER. In order to give gentlemen an opportunity to vote fairly
                                and squarely on the report, I now move the adoption of the minority
                                report.

                            The report was then read by the clerk from the printed copy on page
                                43 of these Reports-

                            Mr. HEFFREN stating that the resolutions are printed incorrectly by
                                leaving out a few immaterial words.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend by striking out all after the word
                                "Indiana," and inserting, That our Commissioners at Washington be
                                instructed to vote tn said conference for a basis of settlement,
                                such as the Crittenden proposition, or for any other fair and
                                honorable mode of adjustment, and demanded the yeas and nays
                                thereon.

                            Mr. DAVIS was ready to vote for that amendment. He was instructed in
                                that direction. That was all he cared about. He cared nothing about
                                preambles and accompaniments, He would vote for some direct
                                instructions for action ; and he believed this amendment would have
                                been voted for by Republicans, if it had been offered to the
                                majority report.

                            Mr. FRASIER. I would not vote for it if it were appended to the
                                Apocalypse.

                            Mr. DAVIS excepted ultra men.

                            The amendment was rejected-yeas 36, nays 53.

                            Mr. McLEAN proposed to amend by striking out nil after the word "
                                Indiana" and inserting "That our Commissioners at Washington be and
                                they are hereby instructed to vote in the Peace Conference for a
                                plan of adjustment on the basis of the Border State resolutions, or
                                any other equally fair and honorable adjustment of our national
                                difficultits."-He enforced this with a little speech.

                            Mr. CAMERON moved to lay the amendment on the table.

                            The yeas and nays thereon resulted-yeas 67. nays 43; so it was laid
                                on the table, and the question again recurred on the minority
                                resolutions.

                            Mr. ATKISSON proposed to amend by striking out all that which relates
                                to ministers of the Gospel; also, all that which relates to
                                furnishing the South with men in case of war,&c. [Laughter.]

                            He considered tbe report and the resolutions go together. he
                                resolutions were all right.

                            Mr. BRANHAM moved to lay the amendment on the table.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG and Mr. HEFFREN made the point that it was not
                                competent for the House to amend a report of the views of a
                                Committee.

                            The SPEAKER sustained the point of order, and so Mr. Atkisson's
                                proposition was ruled out.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend by striking out all after the word
                                "Indiana," and inserting, That our Commissioners at Washington be
                                and they are hereby instructed to vote in said Conference in favor
                                of a recommendation for a call of a Convention of the States, under
                                the fifth article of the Constitution of the United States.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend th amendment, by adding to the
                                following effect: Whereas, a difference of opinion has between the
                                people of the Northern and the people of the Southern section Union,
                                respecting the common territory, there-fore, as a ground of
                                compromise and to restore peace, the State of Indiana proposes, as a
                                basis of settlement, to restore the Missouri Compromise line, with
                                all the rights of the States and people north and south of it as
                                they formally existed, or any other basis of settlement, which would
                                not infringe upon the rights of the States and the people of any
                                part of the Confederacy He said this amendment was word for word a
                                copy of the original unanimous report of the Committee of Thirteen,
                                wanting but a single word, "constitutional."

                            It was rejected-yeas 30, nays 53.

                            On motion by Mr. CAMERON, Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment was laid on the
                                table-yeas 52, nays 33.

                            Mr. PROSSER. This proceeding having run its course long enough, he
                                moved the previous question.

                            Mr. EDSON appealed to the gentleman to withdraw the demand; but Mr.
                                Prosser adhered, and there was a second.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG, under a motion to be excused for not voting,
                                proceeding to discuss the general question so far that- 

                            Mr. FERGUSON made a point of order against him, which was sustained
                                by the Chair.

                            Mr. PROSSER now moved to reconsider the second for the previous
                                question. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. McLEAN (by unanimous consent) submitted an order, which was
                                adopted, giving the use of the flag on the dome of the Capitol to
                                the Indianapolis City Greys for their annual ball to-morrow night,
                                in commemoration of the birth of the Father of his country. 


                            
                                STATE OF THE UNION.
                                The SPEAKER announced the question to be on Mr. Prosser's motion
                                    to reconsider the second for the previous question.

                                Mr. PARRETT and Mr. ORR hoped it would not prevail.

                                Mr. FRASIER hoped it would. There were gentlemen desirous of
                                    speaking on this question who had not yet spoken, and he was
                                    disposed to give an equal chance to all.

                                Mr. JONES of Vermillion, said the time had been when he would
                                    like to say something; but he was not now solicitous. His
                                    constituents were for saving the Union by all means,  and they knew they had his hearty
                                    sympathy and cooperation, and he supposed the work would be done
                                    quite as well without his occupying the time of the House.

                                The second for the demand of the previous question was
                                    reconsidered, and the demand was withdrawn.

                                Mr. EDSON had not made speeches to be reported and sent to the
                                    country, and did not now propose to do so. He believed this the
                                    most important question that could come before this body. Whilst
                                    he was for the Union with all his heart, he was opposed to
                                    coercion. There were now two governments within the limits of
                                    the former Confederacy, and we must coerce, or recognize the
                                    action of the cotton States. Their action had not his sympathy.
                                    He did not believe in the right, of secession ; but he desired
                                    that everything should be done that could be done to retain the
                                    eight border States. Such resolutions as we passed this morning
                                    would waste the strength of the Union men in those States. He
                                    represented, in part, two counties, giving some 7,000 votes.
                                    These counties divided in the late elections ; but they were now
                                    nearly unanimous for compromise. He referred to a recent Union
                                    meeting, presided over by Judge Pitcher, a Republican, (and a
                                    majority of its officers and active men were also Republicans
                                    and Americans,) whose resolutions he had presented here. He
                                    believed a very large majority of the people in the southern
                                    portion of the State were in favor of adjustment and compromise,
                                    on something like the Crittenden propositions. Being questioned
                                    by Mr. Frasier, as to how Douglas Democrats could accept so
                                    readily the Crittenden propositions, he replied, that he was not
                                    for those propositions in the abstract, but for popular
                                    sovereignty as a great national principle that must ultimately
                                    prevail. He showed the Republican mistake here, as to the effect
                                    of the Crittenden propositions: which he read, to show that they
                                    were not the Breckenridge platform with the addition of a slave
                                    code, as asserted by Judge Bundy. He believed this question of
                                    the extension of slave territory, was a question of climate and
                                    not of legislation. The Crittenden propositions apply
                                    restrictions only to existing territory south of 36 deg. 30 min.
                                    ; whilst they apply unrestrictedly to territory north of that
                                    line. He hoped we were be able to get restrictions upon the
                                    future acquisitions of territory the source of all our national
                                    difficulties. With respect to these minority resolutions and his
                                    position, lie endorsed the sentiment on the Indiana marble block
                                    in the Washington monument that Indiana knows no North, no
                                    South, no East, no West, nothing but the Union. He exhorted to
                                    the duty of pacification by all means to save the border States,
                                    and bring back, if possible, the seceding States. He did not
                                    recognize the right of secession ; but there was a right of
                                    revolution. There was another government de
                                        facto if not de jure, in those six:
                                    cotton States. He denied the policy of coercion, and commanded
                                    the forbearance at Washington by which the seceding States were
                                    still recognized, and their names still called in Halls of
                                    Congress, though none of their representatives were there to
                                    answer. Being interrogated, he said, it was absurd to affirm
                                    that there were seven millions of traitors in the Southern
                                    States. He endorsed the minority resolutions, but not the
                                    report. He could not, and would not join in a sweeping
                                    denunciation of any class of citizens-as the report denounces
                                    ministers of the Gospel. He believed in the freedom of speech
                                    and of the press, and that ministers had the same civil rights
                                    of other men-out of the pulpit. He objected to this part of the
                                    report, as having no connection with the matter in hand. He
                                    elaborated again his position on the right of secession. He
                                    could admit the doctrine no more in the case of a State, than in
                                    the case of a county or any portion of a county. He admitted the
                                    difficulty in the question, whether coercion should not follow
                                    where there is a violation of natural right If these seceding
                                    States could not be recovered, he objected to the policy of
                                    coercion, or committing ourselves to any line of policy with
                                    respect to this division, as to which side we would fight for;
                                    but if the cotton States will go, let them go in peace. The
                                    question of the Union was infinitely higher than mere party
                                    successes and party spoils. He believed that all platforms and
                                    politicians, including Abraham Lincoln, would be compelled to
                                    subside before the will of the American people, when they shall
                                    rise up in their might and declare that the Union must and shall
                                    be preserved. He closed by referring to the singular character
                                    of the Republican record here on the Crittenden
                                    propositions.

                                Mr. POLK, proposed to amend, by adding the following:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That it is impolitic and
                                                inexpedient to coerce by force of arms any seceding
                                                State.
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                


                                On motion by Mr. Cameron, it was laid on the table-yeas 53, nays
                                    37.

                                Mr. CHAIN now demanded the previous question. 

                                Mr. McLEAN (by unanimous consent) said, That as a member of the
                                    Committee of Thirteen who submitted the minority report, he
                                    asked the privilege of making a brief statement. As certain
                                    Republican members of the House had charged that there was a
                                    vein of secession running through that report, and that the
                                    right of secession was virtually admitted in it, he would say
                                    for himself, that he was no apologist for secession. He had no
                                    words of honied sympathy for those reckless Hotspurs who had set
                                    this unrighteous and unholy movement on foot. If the minority;
                                    report contained one word of sympathy for those who, regardless
                                    of all duty and every dictate of patriotism, had set that ball
                                    in motion, he had not read it aright. He did not thus interpret
                                    it. The legal and constitutional right of a State to secede is
                                    against the  plainest
                                    letter of the preamble of the constitution, it is the wildest
                                    vagary that ever entered a madman's brain. Admit the right of a
                                    State to go out of the Union at pleasure, and for every fancied
                                    grievance, and there is an end of all government. As well might
                                    you say that a county, yea, an individual, could secede from the
                                    State, or from a municipal government. The constitution of the
                                    United States was called into existence by the
                                        people, and not by the States, as such, of the Union.
                                    It is a contract binding alike upon each and every citizen of
                                    the United States, and its design is to maintain a government
                                    for the benefit of the whole people. It must, therefore, by
                                    paramount to all State constitutions, and all other civil
                                    authority whatsoever. As to coercion, that was
                                    simply a question of expediency. Every Republican must know that
                                    the first blow for coercion in the South, yea, even though that
                                    blow were struck in South Carolina, would unite the entire South
                                    as a wall of living fire. From every hill and hamlet and valley
                                    of the South would bristle the bayonet and glitter the sword.
                                    The heather-hidden bands of Clan Alpin never responded with more
                                    alacrity to the shrill whistle of their chief, than would the
                                    solid South rise up, as one man, at the first blow of coercion
                                    struck within their borders. Let the laws be enforced to the
                                    extent of cutting off the mails in the seceding States, where
                                    the postal system costs the United States more than the revenue
                                    received therein. Let the ports of Charleston, Savannah, Mobile,
                                    and other ports in those States be declared, by act of Congress,
                                    no longer ports of entry, with privileges to grant clearances to
                                    vessels. That would be the extent of the coercion he could
                                    favor. Coercion, in the lips of many modern Republicans means
                                    war, and war means disunion; final, everlasting separation.
                                    [Applause.] As used by many of them, it had still another
                                    meaning. It meant folly, madness. Nothing could be accomplished
                                    by such coercion, except the final and everlasting disunion of
                                    the States. It could accomplish no other object. [Applause,
                                    which was promptly suppressed by the Chair.]

                                Mr. HEFFREN, under a pro forma motion to bo
                                    excused from voting, explained that in the reference in the
                                    minority report to ministers of the gospel there was no
                                    intention of saying anything against ministers as a class, when
                                    they attended to their own business in the pulpit.

                                Mr. ATKISSON (pro forma.) I shall vote against
                                    the resolutions, because there is not one of them which every
                                    Democrat here has not voted for time and again; and because they
                                    were connected with other matters to which I object.

                                Mr. ROBERTS, (pro forma.) I desire to give a
                                    reason for the vote which I shall cast on the minority report. I
                                    shall vote "aye" on the resolutions, and in so
                                    doing I do not understand that I approve the argument presented by the minority in their support,
                                    believing that the argument, or report, and
                                    the resolutions are wholly disconnected under
                                    the parliamentary law by which we are governed, and that we are
                                    voting on the resolutions only, and not on the
                                    argument or report. I approve the resolutions entirely, but
                                    there are many parts of the report which I could not support,
                                    under any circumstances whatsoever, which I will not take the
                                    time to point out now.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG (pro forma). There is one
                                    resolution here that it would not be wise to vote for. (He
                                    referred to the third, and re-cited it, and proceeded to remark
                                    upon the merits of the question until he was arrested by the
                                    chair.)

                                Mr. FORD (pro forma). There is not a single
                                    word or sentiment in these resolutions in which I do not concur,
                                    and in voting for the resolutions I do not intend by any means
                                    to endorse the accompanying report. I have a great reverence for
                                    ministers of the Gospel ; and I do not want to be considered as
                                    favoring the right of the secession of a State, any sooner than
                                    I would favor the same right in a county, township, or
                                    individual.

                                Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, (pro forma). I ask to
                                    be excused from voting. [Consent, and laughter.]Mr. SMITH. The
                                    consent is not unanimous. Several about here say "no
                                    consent."

                                The SPEAKER. The chair did not hear a, dissenting voice, but he
                                    will now recognize the dissenting voices on the word of the
                                    gentleman. [Laughter.]

                                Mr. SMITH. The reason why I want to be excused is, because I
                                    desire to wait for the result of a challenge which several days
                                    ago I sent to your honor, to make a speech against me on this
                                    question. Since that time I have spent sleepless nights in
                                    preparing my speech for that occasion. [Laughter.]

                                Mr. McLEAN. I move that the gentleman have leave to deliver that
                                    speech now.

                                Mr. SMITH. It might not be as lengthy as some, but I doubt not
                                    that it would be the most important of the session. [Laughter.] 

                                The SPEAKER. The Chair would say that when he accepted the
                                    challenge referred to, he was not fully aware of the powers of
                                    the gentleman from Bartholomew. Becoming better informed of the
                                    gentleman's powers he has concluded to retire from the contest.
                                    [Laughter.]

                                Mr. BLACK. I have before voted directly in favor of every one of
                                    the propositions contained in these resolutions. I find them now
                                    coupled with matter I do not entirely approve of. I therefore
                                    ask to be excused from voting.

                                The House refused to excuse.

                                The yeas and nays were now reported as follows:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                YEAS-Messrs. Black, Combs,
                                                Cooprider, Davis, Dobbins, Edson, Fleming, Ford,
                                                Heffren, Horton, Howard, Jenkinson, Knowlton, Lods,
                                                McLean, Moss, Mutz, Owens, Packard, Pitts, Polk,
                                                Prosser, Prow, Roberts, Smith of Bartholomew,
                                                Stotsenberg, Trier, and Warrum-28.
                                            

                                            NAYS-Messrs. Anderson, Atkisson,
                                                Bingham, Boydston, Branham, Brucker, Bryant, Bundy,
                                                Burgess, Cameron, Campbell, Cason, Crain, Dashiel,
                                                Epperson, Erwin, Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher, Fordyce,
                                                Fraley, Frasier, Gifford, Gore, Greshman, Grover,
                                                Hall, Haworth, Henricks, Hopkins, Hudson, Hurd,
                                                Jones of Tippecanoe, Jones of Vermillion, Jones of
                                                Wayne, Kendrick, Lane, Lee, Lightner, Moorman,
                                                Sloan, Smith of Miami, Thomas, Thompson, Underwood,
                                                Veatch, Wells, Williams, Wilson, Woodhull, Woods,
                                                and Mr. Speaker-59. 
                                        
                                    
                                

                                 So the minority resolutions were rejected. 

                            
                            

                            
                                BANK OF THE STATE.
                                On motion of Mr. VEATCH, his bill [62]-to authorize the Bank of
                                    the State of Indiana lay off and create five additional bank
                                    districts, and to locate and establish branches therein, was
                                    taken up from the position on the table where it failed for want
                                    of a constitutional majority, i.e., fifty-one votes.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG insisted that the matter under consideration at
                                    the adjournment of yesterday, was a resolution for a report from
                                    the Committee of Thirteen, and that it had
                                    precedence now under the rules of the House.

                                The SPEAKER sustained the point, and Mr. Stotsenberg's resolution
                                    was taken up.

                                On motion by Mr. CAMERON, it was laid on the table-yeas 57, nays
                                    32.

                                The House then resumed the bank district bill.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG moved that the bill be recommitted to the
                                        Committee on Banks, with instructions to
                                    report an amendment, providing that the privilege conferred
                                    shall not be granted but upon the condition precedent, that the
                                    President and Directors of said Bank shall enter upon record
                                    their consent to the repeal of so much of the 15th section of
                                    their charter, as exempts their capital stock from taxation for
                                    municipal purposes.

                                Mr. VEATCH moved to lay the motion on the table, which was agreed
                                    to.

                                Mr. HEFFREN proposed to recommit the bill with instructions to
                                    amend, by adding a clause, requiring that the books for
                                    subscription of stock shall be kept open from 10 o'clock to 4
                                    o'clock, for six consecutive days; and if more stock be
                                    subscribed for than is allowed by law, the deduction shall be
                                    provided for pro rata between the several
                                    subscribers.

                                Mr. FISHER. This proposition; requiring the consent to be
                                    unianimous, would be just as fatal to the bill as that of the
                                    gentleman from Floyd.

                                Mr. BUNDY moved that the bill and amendment be made the special
                                    order for Tuesday next, 2 o'clock ; which was agreed to by
                                    consent.

                                On motion by Mr. BUNDY, the Senate concurrent resolution for a
                                    Joint Committee of Eleven, (six on the part of the House and
                                    five on the part of the Senate,) to consider the subject of
                                    apportioning the State for Representative purposes ; and that
                                    the President of the Senate and Speaker of the House confer
                                    together about the formation of the Committee, so that there
                                    shall be one member from each Congressional District in the
                                    State, was taken up and concurred in.

                                On motion by Mr. DOBBINS, his bill [60] in relation to stock
                                    killed by railroads, was taken from the calendar and referred to
                                    the Committee on the Judiciary.

                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, his joint resolution and bill (17) in
                                    relation to the public printing, which had been made the special
                                    order for this day, was made the special order for Tuesday
                                    morning, at half-past 9 o'clock.

                                The SPEAKER announced the next order to be the consideration of
                                    the joint resolution [22] for the amendment of the second
                                    section of the second article of the Constitution, declaring
                                    what is the residence of a voter[one year in the United States
                                    and the declaration of intention of naturalization, and sixty
                                    days in the township, the Committee proposing to reduce the
                                    latter to thirty days.]

                                Mr. ROBERTS moved to make the county residence thirty days, and
                                    the township residence ten days.]

                                Mr. PROSSER was satisfied the first resolution was wrong. Thirty
                                    days was too long. Ten days was long enough for a residence in a
                                    township. He proposed thirty days in the county, also.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed twelve days in the township.

                                Mr. BUNDY moved that the report and pending amendments be
                                    recommitted. The motion was rejected.

                                Mr. EDSON and Mr. ORR thought Mr. Prossor's amendment all that
                                    was necessary.

                                Mr. NEBEKER insisted on fixing a township residence.

                                Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew. It was often the case that there was as
                                    much interest in the township as in the general elections. There
                                    was a necessity for a township residence.

                                Mr. CAMERON insisted on thirty days in the township. A residence
                                    of two minutes was all that the law now requires. Hence the
                                    frauds.

                                Mr. PACKARD indorsed the view of the gentleman from Warren, that
                                    we should have a township limitation. He preferred thirty days
                                    in the county and ten days in the township.

                                Mr. JENKINSON opposed the township limitations; ten days was too
                                    short. He was in favor of the Committee report. He called for a
                                    division of the question.

                                Mr. DAVIS made an ineffectual motion to lay the subject on the
                                    table.

                                Mr. THOMAS favored the township limitation.

                                The two branches of Mr. Roberts' amendments were both
                                    adopted.

                                Mr. HEFFREN moved to include incorporated towns and cities ;
                                    which was agreed to; and then,

                                In this shape, the joint resolution was passed-yeas 75, nays
                                    11.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            FRIDAY, February 22,1861.
                        

                         On motion by Mr. CONNER, the reading of yesterday's journal was
                            dispensed with Messrs. Williams and Slack objecting in & few
                            words.

                        Mr. ANTHONY presented a memorial from contractors with the
                            Jefifersonville Penitentiary, praying for relief; which was referred to
                            the Committee on the State Prison. 

                        
                            RELIEF OF TRUST FUND BORROWERS.
                            Mr. HAMILTON, from the Committee on Finance,
                                returned Senator Newcomb's bill 114, referred yesterday,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB explained the provisions of his bill proposing to give
                                borrowers of amounts of $500 and upwards five years to make
                                repayment and seriously objected to concurrence in the Committee's
                                report.

                            Mr. WAGNER regarded the bill as oppressive, and sustained the action
                                of the Committee.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON was opposed to the provisions of the bill as it now
                                is, moved a re-commitment thereo f with a view to its amendment, so
                                that County Auditors may have power to renew loans at any time they
                                think the safety of the fund requires it, &c.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER was in favor of the main idea of the bill, but opposed
                                to it so far as it relates to the loans in the different counties.
                                Instead of this bill being for the oppression of borrowers, it is a
                                bill, as the title indicates, for their relief.

                            Mr. RAY. The Judiciary Committee examined this
                                bill at two or three sessions. To say it is oppressive, is simply
                                erroneous. It ex tends liberal terms to borrowers; has beneficial
                                provisions, even where it applies to counties.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB submitted additional instructions to strike out all that
                                part of the bill which refers to any fund but the sinking fund.

                            The motion to recommit was agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INTEREST ON MONEY.
                            Mr. STEELE, from the Committee on Finance,
                                returned Senator March's bill 190-see page 233 of these
                                Reports-recommending that it lie on the table.

                            Mr. MARCH. The interest law, in meaning and spirit, is now being
                                violated by all bankers and brokers. This bill is intended to stop
                                these proceedings. He trusted this Committee report would not be
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. LANDERS also opposed concurrence.

                            Mr. STEELE radically disagreed with the author of this bill. It
                                proposed nothing in addition to the present law. If the banks
                                violate law they ought to be prosecuted. He sustained his report,
                                and hoped the Senate would adopt it.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON opposed postponing the bill, for some law ought to be
                                on the statute book governing exchange; yet this bill was not
                                sufficiently explicit. Exchange should be no more than the price
                                between the points where the bill is made and where it is payable;
                                and this proposition should be so amended.

                            Mr. MARCH was willing to so perfect the bill. 

                            [Mr. SHOULDERS moved to suspend the rules to enable him to introduce
                                the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                         WHEREAS, A previous call has been
                                            made for the citizens of Indiana, without distinction of
                                            party, to meet in mass meeting at the town of
                                            Indianapolis, on this day, the 22d inst., for the
                                            purpose of consulting together upon the distracted
                                            condition of the Union; therefore,

                                        Be it Resolved, That this Senate do now
                                            adjourn till to-morrow at 9 o'clock, a. m.
                                    
                                    

                                
                            

                            The motion was rejected by yeas 20, nays 21.]

                            [Messages from the House announced the passage of a joint Resolution
                                H. R. 22, and concurrence in the Senate resolution authorizing a
                                joint committee on the liquidation of the State debt-see page 234 of
                                their Reports ]

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL favored the adoption of the committee's report, and
                                spoke in opposition to the principles of the bill. The present law
                                on usury gives ample remedy for all complaints-

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, the further consideration of this bill was
                                postponed till tomorrow morning, 10 o'clock-because of the slim
                                attendance of Senators. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES
                            Were made and concurred in as follows:

                            
                                By Mr. MELLETT: Finance-returning Senator
                                    Slack's bill [182], abolishing the office of State Agent,
                                    recommending that it be indefinitely postponed.

                                By Mr. SHOULDEES: Finance-Mr. Teegarden's
                                    resolution [see page 233 of these Reports], to index local laws
                                    lie on the table.

                                By Mr. WAGNER: Finance-Senator Miller's
                                    197-see page 237 of these Reports-lie on the table.

                                Mr. CONNER : Judiciary-returned a
                                    resolution, inquiring what further legislation is required in
                                    regard to proceedings supplementary to execution, with an
                                    adverse report thereon.

                                By Mr. CONNER: Organization of
                                    Courts-Senator Odell's [89], establishing probate
                                    courts-lie on the table.

                                By Mr. CONNER: Corporations-Senator Blair's
                                    141 see page 184 of these Reports-lie on the table. Also:
                                    Senator Berry's 165-passage.

                                By Mr. MELLETT: Claims-Senator Bears's
                                    67-see page 89 of these Reports-passage. Also, a petition in
                                    favor of A. H. Miller, asking compensation for catching a
                                    fugitive from justice ought not to be paid out of the State
                                    treasury-lie on the table.

                                By Mr. STEELE: Banks-Senator Conner's [143]
                                    creating additional bank districts-passage.

                            

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, this report was laid on the table.

                            
                                By Mr. BEESON : Agriculture-Senator
                                    Carnahan's 195-see page 237-passage.
                                By Mr. TEEGARDEN: Benevolent
                                    Institutions-as follows: 
                                        
                                            
                                                MR. PRESIDENT-The
                                                  Committee on the Benevolent
                                                  Institutions of the State, in the
                                                  discharge of a portion of the duties assigned
                                                  them, have visited and examined into the condition
                                                  and wants of the various Benevolent
                                                  Institutions.

                                                Your committee is fully prepared to say that the
                                                  law passed at the last session of the Legislature,
                                                  under which the Institutions have since been
                                                  managed, meets with their approval, and they would
                                                  earnestly impress upon the General Assembly, if
                                                  any change be made, the necessity of placing the
                                                  control of those Institutions in the hands of men
                                                  of the most unexceptionable characters and
                                                  acquirements appropriate to their respective
                                                  positions.
                                                

                                                At the Institute for the Education of the Blind
                                                  there are sixy pupils, most of them young, and
                                                  susceptible of mental and moral improvement, as
                                                  the institution is now not only regarded as an
                                                  asylum, but as an institution for the educational
                                                  purposes, whereby the pupil, although deprived of
                                                  natural vision, may have opened up faculties which
                                                  are susceptible of a high state of culture, which
                                                  will enable the pupils to be useful, and have the
                                                  acquirements to make a living when they leave the
                                                  institution.

                                                The work department of this institution is not
                                                  very extensive, as there is but a small proportion
                                                  of the pupils of sufficient age or constitution to
                                                  perform much labor. Brooms are the only article
                                                  now manufactured in the shop. 

                                                In the Institution for the Education of the Deaf
                                                  and Dumb, there are one hundred and seventy-three
                                                  pupils.

                                                In the school department is demonstrated fully
                                                  the practicability as well as the utility of the
                                                  system of instruction given to this unfortunate
                                                  class of our citizens. 

                                                In the work department there is an evidence of
                                                  mechanical skill that will enable the pupils to be
                                                  useful, and imbibe habits of industry and a
                                                  knowledge of some useful trade by which they can
                                                  make a living after they leave the
                                                  institution.

                                                Your committee, on a careful examination of the
                                                  building, is fully convinced of the inadequate and
                                                  defective apparatus in use for warming it, and the
                                                  almost entire want of any adequate and proper
                                                  means of washing, drying and ironing the clothes
                                                  of the children.

                                                In view of protecting the pupils and preventing
                                                  the building in its present hazardous condition
                                                  from being destroyed by fire, your committee would
                                                  recommend that the Legislature make an
                                                  appropriation to carry out the plans and estimates
                                                  referred to in the report of the Board of Trustees
                                                  and Superintendent and herewith submitted by the
                                                  committee. 

                                                At the Hospital for the treatment of the Insane,
                                                  there are now two hundred and ninety-seven
                                                  patients; every ward in the Hospital is full, and
                                                  many of them very much crowded beyond their
                                                  capacity for taking care of the patients, and
                                                  treating them as successfully as they could
                                                  otherwise be treated; and, consequently, many
                                                  meritorious patients obliged to be refused
                                                  admission and treatment in the Hospital, while
                                                  other patients not cured are frequently obliged to
                                                  be removed to give room for new patients.

                                                In view of the foregoing conclusion, and in
                                                  consideration of the large numbers of insane
                                                  persons in the State, who are not provided for,
                                                  your committee feel it to be their duty to urge
                                                  upon the present Legislature that some provisions
                                                  may be made, either by enlarging the present
                                                  Hospital, or by building a separate institution
                                                  for a home for the incurable insane of
                                                  Indiana.

                                                There are many suggestions connected with the
                                                  Hospital which are now under consideration, and
                                                  will appear in our next report, in relation to the
                                                  farm, Artesian well, laundry establishment,
                                                  repairs, &c.
                                            
                                        
                                    
                                
                                By Mr. SHOEMAKER: County and Township
                                        Business returning a resolution of inquiry
                                    concerning transferring the powers of changing, vacating, or
                                    locating of public highways from the county board to township
                                    trustees lie on the table.

                                By Mr. DeHART: Printing-Senator Turner's
                                    resolution concerning the printing of the laws in a paper in
                                    each county-inexpedient.

                                By Mr. MILLER : Judiciary-Senator Lander's
                                    204-referred to the Committee on
                                    Finance.


                            

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the first
                                reading:

                            By Mr. TURNER: [220] To provide for the prosecution of the necessary
                                judicial proceedings to procure the removal of the feeder dam across
                                the Calumet river in Illinois, and pay the expenses of said
                                proceedings.

                            By Mr. CRAVENS : [221] To repeal an act prescribing the time of
                                holding, and the length of the terms of courts in the third judicial
                                circuit, approved March 3, 1859, and to revive and declare in force
                                the act or parts of acts thereby repealed.

                            By Mr. ANTHONY: [222] To provide for the government and discipline of
                                the State prison, and to repeal the act for the government and
                                discipline of the State prison approved February 15, 1857, together
                                with so much of the act which provides for a new prison north of the
                                National road, approved March 5, 1859, as may come in conflict with
                                this act; as well as any other act or parts of acts conflicting
                                herewith.

                            By Mr. MARCH: [223] To amend sec. 202 of the act concerning the
                                partition of lands, approved May 20, 1852; and to provide for
                                appeals, and fixing the time thereof.

                            By Mr. WAGNER: [224] To provide for the investment of the Sinking
                                Fund in Indiana five per cent, and two and a half per cent. State
                                stocks.

                            By Mr. TARKINGTON [225] To amend sec. 33 of an act providing for the
                                government of the State University, &c., approved June 17, 1852
                                ; and providing for the prompt collection, of the interest on loans
                                of said funds, and the duties of officers therein mentioned.

                            By Mr. MARCH: [226] To amend sections 20, 22, 23, and 24 of the
                                Practice act, approved June 17, 1852 ; and to authorize district
                                attorneys to administer oaths in certain cases.

                            By Mr. TARKINGTON: [227] To regulate contingent, fees and perpetual
                                scholarships in the State University, and providing for the purchase
                                of the same.

                            By Mr. MARCH : [228] To amend sec. 3 of an act prescribing the powers
                                and duties of justices of the peace in State prosecutions, approved
                                May 29, 1852.

                            By Mr. BLAIR: [229] To abolish complete records in certain cases in
                                the Supreme Court of this State.

                            By Mr. WAGNER : [280] To enable railroad companies incorporated under
                                the general railroad law of May 11, 1852, that have gone on to
                                construct their roads, but failed to complete the same within the
                                time specified in said law to enjoy the privileges of their charter,
                                and to complete or abandon the remainder, and to enable railroad
                                companies to extend their lines of railroad , and also to extend the
                                time to complete railroads.

                            By Mr. NEWCOMB: [231] To amend section 68 of an act entitled "an act
                                to repeal all laws now in force for the incorporation of cities,"
                                &c., approved March 9, 1857 ; and to provide for a penalty upon
                                city taxes remaining delinquent after the third Monday of March,
                                A.D. 1859, approved March 1, 1859.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: [232] Supplementary to an act defining felonies,
                                approved June 10, 1852; defining certain offences therein, and
                                prescribing penalties therefor.

                            Mr. CRAVEN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                his bill 64see page 88 of these Reports, with amendments
                                recommending thai it lie on the table for the present: which was
                                concurred in.
                            

                             Resolutions of the House, numbered 22, 31, and 32 were laid on the
                                table without reading.

                            House bills numbered 8, 3, 44,103, 107, 167, 199, were severally
                                passed the first reading.

                            Mr. BEESON made an ineffectual motion to adjourn-yeas 3, nays 16.

                            Leave of absence was obtained for Mr. Robinson till Tuesday.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, February 22,1861.
                        

                        Mr. BLACK presented his protest in connection with his vote yesterday for
                            concurrence in the minority report and resolutions of the
                                Committee of Thirteen, which went on the journal.
                            There were portions of that report which he "did not consider
                            appropriate while the Democratic party were devising means to avoid the
                            approaching dangers."

                        Mr. SMITH, from the Committee on Rights and
                            Privileges, returned sundry petitions from citizens of Wayne
                            county; and, stating that a bill had been introduced to meet the views
                            of the petitioners, the report recommends that the petitions be laid on
                            the table. The report was concurred in. 

                        
                            PHEASANTS AND QUAILS.

                            Mr. SMITH also returned the bill [S. 19] to amend the Pheasant and
                                Quail section of the Game law of February 26, 1857, with an
                                amendment, striking out "the first of October" and inserting "the
                                first of November."

                            Mr. DOBBINS hoped the report would not be concurred in. He spoke
                                generally against the Game law. It was frivolous and unnecessary,
                                and should be swept from the statute book.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew. The only thing done by the bill was to
                                extend the time in which these pheasants and quails may be
                                taken.

                            Mr. FORD proposed (as to quails) to strike out the first of February
                                and insert the first of March.

                            Mr. PROSSER was not in favor of any Game law: but since we must have
                                one he was in favor of the first of March-in favor of the bill first
                                reported from this Committee. He would lay this report on the table,
                                but forbore for debate.

                            Mr. ORR stated that the object of the Committee was to harmonize
                                conflicting views.

                            Mr. KENDRICK desired to amend, to prolong the time till the first of
                                March, and to prohibit netting quails altogether.

                            Mr. STOTSEBERG. The enemies of the report were disposed to repeal the
                                law altogether. Their policy looked to the extermination of a very
                                valuable game. These quails had enough to do to get through the hard
                                winter, without setting the trappers and shooters on them all the
                                winter and half the spring. He moved to amend Mr, Ford's amendment
                                by striking out "March 1," and inserting "January 15."

                            Mr. BUNDY. The Committee had fixed the time on a compromise, which he
                                thought reasonable. It was a matter of little interest to him, and
                                he demanded the previous question. Under its operation both
                                amendments were rejected and the report of the Committee was
                                concurred in. 

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House statements of the condition of the
                                Branches at Terre Haute and South Bend of the Bank of the State;
                                which were referred to the Committee on
                                Banks.

                            He also laid before the House a communication from the Auditor of
                                State, responding to Mr. Holman's resolution with reference to the
                                swamp land funds of Gibson county ; and it was reserved from the
                                files for the benefit of Mr. Holman.

                            Mr. ORR. from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Roberts' resolution for the
                                passage of a law with proper penalties' requiring all persons,
                                before taking charge of any moveable or stationary engine in this
                                State, to obtain a certificate of qualifications with a
                                recommendation that it be laid on the table; which was concurred
                                in.

                            Mr. HURD, from the same Committee, returned Mr. Wood's bill [179]
                                regarding estrays and articles adrift, recommending that it be laid
                                on the table; which was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FREE TURNPIKES.

                            Mr. PROSSER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Williams' bill [205] to
                                encourage the construction of free turnpikes, and providing
                                therefor, and reported that it be laid on the table.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS. It was a bill proposing the levy of a tax in the
                                townships for the construction of free turnpikes, by the consent of
                                a majority of the citizens of the township. He felt a deep interest
                                in its success, and hoped the bill would be recommitted.

                            Mr. FRASIER spoke of the difficulty in getting the committee
                                together, on account of its members being engaged on investigations.
                                He had reported this bill now. to give the gentleman (Mr. Williams)
                                an opportunity to give it his own direction. If it were referred
                                again to the same committee, it would result only in a similar
                                report. The bill provides that, where a majority of the township
                                shall petition for the levy of a special road tay, the money shall
                                be applied on the road having the largest number of petitioners in
                                its favor. The committee were unable to see how any mere township
                                turnpike, or gravel road could do much good. But the principal
                                objection with the committee to the bill was, that a bare majority
                                of the township could control these matters.

                            Mr. VEATCH agreed that it might be improper to give this power to a
                                bare majority ; but anything which goes to make better roads ought
                                to be encouraged. He had seen no proposition introduced here better
                                calculated to insure good roads than this; and he would move its reference to a Select
                                Committee for the purpose of avoiding the difficulties suggested.
                                But-

                            On the motion of Mr. FRASIER, it was re-committed to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary. 

                            Mr. FORD proposed an amendment, which went along without reading.

                            Mr. FRASIER, from the same committee, returned Mr. M'Lean's bill
                                [138], to repeal the amendment of the last session to the city
                                corporation law, with a recommendation that the same do pass.

                            Mr. M'LEAN. The bill proposes simply to abolish the act of 1859, and
                                revive the act of 1857. The difference between these acts was this:
                                by the act of 1857, the members of the Common Council, &c., were
                                made elective for four years ; whilst under the act of 1857, they
                                were elected for the term of two years. They were satisfied in his
                                city (Terre Haute), that the change of 1859 worked badly. Four years
                                was too long a term for these officers. They became irresponsible
                                and neglectful of their duties.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. As far as the city of New Albany was concerned, she
                                had a good Common Council, and he did not think she panted this
                                change. Only two years ago this legislation was taken ; and it had
                                been taken up to the Supreme Court, and had been sustained there,
                                and all the cities in the State were working under it. The bill was
                                too much a verification of the common remark, that Representatives
                                came here but to repeal the laws of the former session. He had heard
                                no application for this change.

                            The report of the committee was concurred in, and the bill was
                                ordered to be engrossed.

                            On motion by Mr. HORTON, (the order of business being suspended for
                                the purpose,) Senate messages were taken up, and the bill [S. 104],
                                to amend the acts of May 6, 1852, and March 2, 1859, so as to
                                legalize conveyances by Indians, negroes, and persons of mixed
                                blood, was passed the second reading.

                            The bills from the Senate numbered 31, 52, 116, 175, 163, 25, 36, 33,
                                and 46 were severally read and passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. Moss had leave of absence till Tuesday. Mr. Anderson, Mr. Hudson,
                                Mr. Davis, Mr. Boydston, Mr. Hopkins, and Mr. Frasier asked for
                                leave of absence till Monday, and their applications were laid on
                                the table.

                            The Senate's concurrent resolution for a joint committee to report on
                                the gradual liquidation of the State debt, coming up, it was adopted
                                by consent: and the Speaker thereupon appointed Messrs. Branham,
                                Fisher, Grain, Gifford, and Brett, as said committee an the part of
                                the House. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS

                            Were now introduced and passed to the second reading, having the
                                following titles, viz. :

                            Mr. Branham : [283] To provide for payment of the interest on the
                                debt of the State of Indiana, due January 1st, 1
                                    3
                                    8
                                61-[appropriating the sum of $10,075].

                            Mr. Frasier: [284] To amend sections 1,2 and 3 of the act to provide
                                for the relocation of county seats, approved March 6, 1855, and to
                                provide for the disposition of grounds heretofore used for county
                                purposes, and to provide for the repeal of the proceedings of county
                                commissioners.

                            Mr. Cameron: [285] To apportion Senators and Representatives for the
                                next six years.

                            Mr. Gresham: [286] To provide for the compensation of the Judges of
                                the Court of Common Pleas, and repealing all laws in conflict
                                therewith. [$1500.]

                            Mr. Wilson: [287] To amend the assessment act of June 21, 1852.

                            Mr. Veatch: [288] To provide for the protection and arrest of
                                felons.

                            Mr. Branham: [289] To provide for the investment of the sinking fund
                                in Indiana five per cent and two and a half per cent stocks.

                            Mr. Orr: [290] To amend the act for the better protection of
                                religious meetings, agricultural fairs, and other lawful assemblages
                                of the people.

                            Mr. Bryant: [291] Supplemental to and amendatory of the first section
                                of the act to enable trustees to receive lands and donate and convey
                                the same for the benefit of schools, churches, Masonic and
                                Odd-Fellows' lodges, &c., and for the construction of
                                schoolhouses, churches, &c., approved June 17, 1852.

                            Mr. Veatch: [292] For the establishment of a State Normal
                                School-[Prepared, he said, by the late Superintendent Rugg.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON SCHOOL SYSTEM.

                            Mr. GROVER, from the Committee on Education, (the
                                order of business being suspended,) returned Mr. Orr's bill [61]
                                defining who shall be qualified voters at District School meetings,
                                and providing for the selection of District School Directors,
                                &c., with an amendment of the title, striking out all after the
                                word "bill," and inserting these words: To provide for a general
                                system of Common Schools ; the officers thereof; their respective
                                powers and duties ; and for the establishment and regulation of
                                Township Libraries;" and with a further amendment, striking out all
                                after the enacting clause and inserting a new bill.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend the amendment, in the 12th section,
                                by striking out the word "five," and inserting "seven;" as the age
                                for the admission of children to the common schools. This amendment,
                                he said, was offered at the request of the Board of School Trustees
                                of his city, (New Albany:) and for the information of the House
                                thereon, he read their letter to him, reasoning against admitting to
                                the public schools children under seven years of age, and for a
                                change of the law which now invites children of five years.

                            Mr. WOODS opposed the amendment, and on his motion it was laid on the
                                table. 

                            

                             Mr. BRUCKER proposed to amend the bill, by a resolution directing
                                the Committee on Education to so amend the School law, as to bring
                                the School Directors under the supervision of the Township Trustees;
                                to require the School Director to make his report to the Trustee,
                                and to be compensated for his services.

                            The SPEAKER (Mr. Orr in the Chair.) The amendment is not in
                                order.

                            On motion by Mr. GROVER, the subject was made the special order for
                                next Wednesday at 10 o'clock.

                            Mr. DAVIS submitted the following:

                            Resolved, That no member of this House shall be
                                allowed to speak longer than ten minutes on any subject.

                            The SPEAKER. Under the tacit agreement yesterday, no vote can be now
                                taken on the resolution. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MEETING OF THE SOLDIERS OF 1812.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. In behalf of a Committee of the Old Soldiers, now in
                                session in the Supreme Courtroom, with no accommodations where the
                                old men can sit down, I ask for them the use of this Hall for their
                                session this afternoon.

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            And the House adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            SATURDAY, February 23, 1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. LINE the reading of yesterday's journal was dispensed
                            with. 

                        
                            PETITIONS. MEMORIALS, ETC.

                            Petitions of citizens of Indiana, without respect to party, asking
                                the General Assembly to instruct the Commissioners appointed by the
                                Governor to the Washington convention to co-operate with the friends
                                of compromise on the basis of the Crittenden propositions, or some
                                other basis equally fair and honorable ; and that our Senators in
                                Congress be instructed, and our Representatives requested, to
                                support some compromise on that or a like basis, were presented-

                            
                                By Mr. TARKINGTON, from a meeting lately held in Brown
                                    county.

                                By Mr. ODELL, signed by 132 citizens of Democrat township,
                                    Carroll county.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON, signed by 7,500 citizens of Indiana, residents
                                    of portions of twenty counties.

                                By Mr. WOLFE, from Clark county.

                                By Mr. STUDABAKER, from Jay county.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL, from Union county.

                                By Mr. O'BRIEN, from Dearborn county.

                                By Mr. RAY: The proceedings of the Union State Contention held
                                    in this city yesterday, without respect to party, and I ask that
                                    the two resolutions which relate to the expression of the
                                    opinion of the Convention without regard to the duty of the
                                    General Assembly of Indiana be read.

                                By Mr. WAGNER: I hold in my hand, and present to this Senate
                                    with pride, the patriotic resolutions adopted at the Convention,
                                    (by nearly a unanimous vote,) of the soldiers of 1812, and of
                                    the Mexican war, held yesterday in the Hall of the House. I ask
                                    that they be read.
                            

                            The above petitions and memorials were severally referred to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations.

                            By Mr. BEARSS: For the repeal of the laws requiring a license for pay
                                concerts, which was referred to a Select Committee, viz: Senators
                                Bearss, Claypool and Line.

                            By Mr. CRAVEN: For the repeal of liquor law, and for an amendment so
                                the Constitution so as to prohibit the manufacture and sale of
                                intoxicating liquors; which was referred to the Temperance
                                    Committee.

                            By Mr. TARKINGTON: For a liquor law prohibiting sale in less
                                quantities than a quart. Referred to the Temperance
                                    Committee. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
                            Mr. LINE, by consent, offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Committe on
                                                the Organization of Courts inquire into
                                            the expediency of making up a complete record in case of
                                            final settlment of executors or administrators; and also
                                            into the expediency of authorizing county clerks to
                                            settle with executors and administrators during
                                            vacations, and that they report by bill or
                                            otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which resolution was adopted. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE TREASURY-VAULTS AND SAFES.

                            Mr. MILLER offered the following :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a Committee of Three be
                                            appointed to examine the safes and vaults of the State
                                            Treasury Department, and to report to the Senate at as
                                            early a day as practicable, the number and size of all
                                            safes and vaults in the office of Treasurer of State,
                                            giving a full description thereof, and whether or not
                                            such safes and vaults are sufficient for the safe
                                            keeping of the treasure, bonds and papers required to be
                                            kept in said office.
                                    
                                
                            

                            The resolution was adopted, and the Committee was subsequently made
                                to consist of Senators Miller, Wagner and Hamilton. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                            By Mr. STUDBAKER: Judiciary-returning Senator
                                Jones' resolution of inquiry whether persons who have advanced money
                                for the support of their friends in the Insane Asylum for the year
                                1857, can legally demand that the same be refunded-with an adverse
                                report thereon.

                            By Mr. JONES: Claims-returning the claim of A. M.
                                Puitt for services as a witness before the swamp land investigating
                                committee of 1859, and recommending the allowance of $27 : referred
                                to the Committee on Finance. Also: the claim of a
                                late treasurer of Warren county for the loss of $210 92, by
                                depreciation of State stock money which he had taken for taxes-with
                                an adverse report thereon.

                            By Mr. JOHNSON: Claims-returning the claim of
                                Chas. High and others for money expended in arresting two persons
                                charged with grand larceny ; reporting that it should not be allowed
                                out of the State treasury-lie on the table.

                            By Mr. Odell: County and Township
                                Business-returning a resolution of inquiry concerning the
                                abolishment of the office of township treasurer, and creating the
                                office of county assessor-inexpedient.

                            By Mr. LINE : Select Committee-returning a petition relating to an
                                onerous assessment of a turnpike company in Franklin and Dearborn
                                counties: reporting that while the ground is true, no action is
                                necessary, from the fact that adequate relief is provided by the
                                revised statutes of 1852.

                            By Mr. MARCH: Select Committee-returning his joint resolution [S.
                                6]-see page 158 of these Reports-recommending concurrence in the
                                House (immaterial) amendments thereto.

                            Which reports were severally concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            A MONUMENT TO GOV. JENNINGS.

                            Mr. FERGUSON, from a Select Committee thereon, in compliance with a
                                petition from citizens of Clark county, reported a bill [S. 233]
                                providing for the erection of a monument over the remains of Hon.
                                Jonathan Jennings, (the first Governor of Indiana) and making an
                                appropriation ($500) therefor.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB submitted a minority report, dissenting; which did not
                                regard the  erection of
                                monuments to deceased men, how-ever worthy, as a legitimate
                                expenditure of funds raised by taxation, &c.

                            The majority report was sustained by Senators Slack. Hamilton, Ray
                                and March.

                            Mr. FERGUSON. I had no agency in getting up the petition that was
                                referred to the committee. It was, however sent to me with a request
                                that I should earnestly call the attention of the Legislature to the
                                subject. I admit that it would not be right to make a lavish
                                expenditure of the people's money in building monuments for the
                                great men of the State. But we should not decline to do a
                                meritorious act for fear of setting a bad precedent. We should act
                                in all cases without regard to precedent, and let the merits of each
                                case speak for themselves. Besides, this appropriation, if made,
                                cannot be adopted as a precedent. There is no similar case in the
                                State. Most of the great men of the State of Indiana, whose remains
                                lie buried within her soil, left children and kindred to care for
                                their graves. Jonathan Jennings left none. Without a child to visit
                                his grave, and without a fortune to entomb him in a manner that his
                                greatness deserved, it is not. surprising that there is great
                                danger, that in a few years it will be difficult to find the precise
                                location of the sacred spot.

                            But it has been said that the people of Clark county are the proper
                                persons to erect the monument. To this I have only to say that the
                                services of Gov. Jennings were given to the State, and not to any
                                particular county. For years his was the only voice she had on the
                                floor of Congress, and lie it was that presided over the convention
                                that gave to her her excellent constitution. In all the early
                                history of the State his name stands prominent over all others.

                            The appropriation asked for is a very small one, about as much as it
                                takes to pay two Senators, or two clerks, or two doorkeepers, for
                                the present session. The object is not to build a monument to be
                                admired and gazed at, but only to preserve the burial place from
                                oblivion.

                            On motion by Mr. LINE, the minority report was laid on the table.

                            Senators Line and Steele were for concurrence in the majority
                                report-Senators Beeson and Hull opposed.

                            Mr. WAGNER moved to amend by appropriating $5,000 for the
                                improvement, of the Tippecanoe Battle Ground.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL opposed the report and the proposed amendment.

                            Mr. MILLER moved to amend the amendment by reducing the amount
                                one-half.

                            Mr. MELLETT objected to both the report and the amendments.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON was opposed to the amendment, but favored the
                                report.

                            Mr. WOLFE favored the amendment as a separate proposition, but not as
                                an amendment to this.

                            Mr. DEHART. Mr. President-I do not arise to consume the time of the
                                Senate in discussing the resolution. The character of that
                                resolution forbids. I only desire to say that my vote shall always
                                be recorded in favor of ample appropriations to rear monuments over
                                the remains of every distinguished pioneer of our noble State; and
                                more cheerfully do I vote for one to mark the resting-place of the
                                first Governor of Indiana, Jonathan Jennings. Those who knew him
                                best, bear testimony that he was "a noble old Roman." I deem it our
                                noblest privilege and best economy to perpetuate
                                the memory and virtues of those who have gone down in the front
                                ranks of civilization. It is true that the scarred oaks upon the
                                classic field of Tippecanoe stands sentinel over the brave dead who
                                fell upon that bloody ground, but that is no reason why we, who
                                enjoy the fruits of their toil and blood, should refuse to rear
                                monuments of a more durable character above their warworn remains.
                                Kentucky has gratefully gathered home to her soil many of her noble
                                sons who fell upon our battle-fields, and raised the sculptured
                                marble above them. Some of that brave band are mouldering away into
                                their native element within the borders of our State. I hope this
                                Senate will be unanimous for an adequate appropriation for monuments
                                for all the noble dead-whether soldiers or statesmen. 

                            Mr. FERGUSON. I regret that the Senator from Warren has offered his
                                amendment at this time. Had I anticipated anything of the kind, I
                                would not have presented the report until the Senate was full. I
                                will do a.s much as any one to perpetuate the glorious deeds of the
                                heroes of Tippecanoe. But I do not think the two subjects should be
                                connected together in the same bill. The State already owns the
                                battle field, and has provided for its inclosure. No better monument
                                is wanted than the field itsalf. When we have pointed out the place
                                and said to strangers and visitors : " This is the Tippeccanoe
                                Battle Ground" we have said enough. The pages of history will tell
                                what heroes perished. I do hope the Senator from Warren will
                                withdraw his amendment.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER favored the original report, and desired, in passing
                                upon matters of this kind, that each individual case should stand
                                upon its own merits.

                            Mr. WHITE was for the report, but against the amendment.

                            Mr. WAGNER urged the adoption of his amendment.

                            Mr. BLAIR should vote against the whole proposition.

                            Mr. MELLETT moved that members and officers of the Legislature
                                contribute three dollars each-pro forma.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the whole subject was laid over till Monday,
                                2 o'clock, because of the slim attendance of Senators.

                        
                        
                        

                        
                            PAY OF COMMISSIONERS.

                            Mr. CONNER offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on Finance inquire into the expediency of
                                            providing for remitting a proper and suitable amount of
                                            funds to our Commissioners at Washington City, appointed
                                            by the Governor of the State of Indiana, in pursuance of
                                            a resolution of the General Assembly of said State, to
                                            meet the Commissioners appointed on the part of other
                                            States to hold what is known as a Peace Conference, to
                                            defray the personal expenses of said Commissioners, and
                                            their proper portion of the necessary expenses of said
                                            Conference, and that said committee report by bill or
                                            otherwise.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. SLACK offered an amendment, instructing said Commissioners to
                                vote for the Crittenden amendment to the Constitution.

                            The PRESIDENT [Mr.Wagner in the chair.]The amendment is out of order.
                                It is not germain to the subject.

                            After discussion by Senators Ferguson, Black, Wolfe, and Line-

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER (in consequence of the absence of Senators),
                                the subject was postponed till Monday.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of a
                                bill [H. R. 283] to provide for the payment of interest on the State
                                debt, due Januery 1, 1861.]

                            [On motion by Mr. LINE, amended by Mr. TARKINGTON, the Senate agreed
                                to go into Committee of the Whole, this afternoon
                                at 2 o'clock, on the School bill [S. 217], introduced last
                                Wednesday.] 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the first
                                reading :

                            By Mr. BEARSS: [233] To amend section 143 of an act to provide for
                                the valuation and assessment of real and personal property, &c.,
                                approved June 21, 1852; so as to fix and regulate the compensation
                                for publication of delinquent tax lists in the several counties of
                                the State.

                            By Mr. WHITE: [234] To amend section 1 of an act to provide for the
                                appointment of notaries public; approved June 1), 1852. [May be
                                appointed on recommendation of a probate judge.]

                            By Mr. DEHART: [235] To prohibit clerks of the circuit and common
                                pleas courts or their deputies and assistants from practicing law in
                                certain cases.

                            By Mr. ANTHONY: [236]To amend an act entitled "an act to amend the
                                title and first section of an act entitled an act authorizing
                                railroad, plank road and macadamized road companies to borrow money,
                                and to secure the repayment thereof by mortgage; approved February
                                5, 1852," approved February 14, 1859.

                            By Mr. MILLER: [237] To authorize the process of garnishment against
                                clerks of circuit and common pleas courts, sheriffs, justices of the
                                peace, constables, and all other officers collecting money, by
                                virtue of their office, and executors, administrators, guardians and
                                trustees, and providing for the indemnification of such officers and
                                persons.

                            By Mr. O'BRIEN: [238] To amend of an act for the repeal of all ge for
                                the incorporation of cities, March 9, 1859.

                            By Mr. STUDABAKER: [239] To amend sec. 12 of an act authorizing the
                                construction of levees and drains, approved June 12, 1852; to
                                legalize appraisements made where the appraisers were sworn before
                                justices of the peace. 

                            By Mr. TARKINGTON: [240] Regulating the rates of exchange in certain
                                cases herein named, and declaring it usury to take charge exchange
                                contrary to the provisions thereof, by any bank, individual or
                                corporation.

                            By Mr. MILLER: [241] To amend section, 1, 2 and 3 of an act entitled
                                " an act to provide for the re-location of county seats, and for the
                                erection of public buildings in case of such re-location, approved
                                March 2,1855,'' and to provide for the disposition of grounds and
                                buildings heretofore used as county buildings and to provide for
                                appeals from the decision's of boards of county commissioners in
                                relation thereto, and to repeal all laws in conflict there-with.

                            [On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON his bill [100] to create the 14th
                                Judicial Circuit, was taken up and referred to a select committee
                                viz.: Senators Tarkington, Cobb and Landers]

                            [On motion by Mr. FERGUSON, his survey, ors' bill [39] was taken from
                                the table and placed on the files.]

                            The Select Committee's bill [S. 210], in aid of the Indiana
                                Historical Society, was read the second time.

                            Mr. LINE moved to amend by filling the blank with the words
                                "$500."

                            Mr. CARNAHAN objected. He thought the appropriation unnecessary.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB hoped the amendment would be adopted and the bill passed.
                                It is a meritorious proposition.

                            The bill and amendment was referred to a select committee of
                                five.

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'cock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. Wagner was appointed President pro tempore during the absence of Mr. Cravens.

                            Pursuant to order, adopted before noon, the Senate resolved itself
                                into a committee of the whole-Mr. WILLIAMS in the Chair-and took up
                                the consideration of the Common School bill [S. 217.]

                            This bill-described on page 249 of these Reports-was read
                                through.

                            The first section was then read.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to amend by adding; "Provided
                                    further, that the funds shall be retained for distribution
                                in the county where the same are raised or collected."

                            Mr. STUDABAKER protested against further proceedings in committee,
                                because so few Senators were
                                present. He made an ineffectual motion that the committee rise and
                                ask to be excused from the further consideration of the subject.

                            The amendment was rejected.

                            The first section was then adopted.

                            Mr. BLAIR declared these proceedings to be a farce. He moved that the
                                committee rise and ask to be discharged from the consideration of
                                this bill.

                            Mr. WOLFE. Seeing that the committee is not what it purports to be, a
                                committee of the whole Senate, and is not a committee even of half
                                the Senate, I am in favor of the motion.

                            The motion was lost.

                            The second section being read-

                            Mr. JOHNSON made an ineffectual motion to strike out all that relates
                                to swamp lands.

                            The second section was adopted.

                            The third section being read-

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend by adding: "Provided
                                the Superintendent of public Instruction shall at any time when he
                                discovers from the report that there is a deficit in the amount
                                collected, for the want of prompt collection, direct the attention
                                of the Board of County Commissioners and the County Auditor to that
                                fact."

                            This amendment was agreed to.

                            On motion by Mr. JONES, the words "or may have been," were inserted
                                in the second line, after the word "is."

                            The third section was then adopted.

                            The fourth section being read-

                            Mr. WAGNER made an ineffectual motion to add the words: "Who together
                                with the school house director shall compose a board for school
                                purposes."

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the words: "and perform the duties of,"
                                were inserted after the word "trustee."

                            The fourth section was then adopted.

                            The fifth section being read-

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL made an ineffectual motion to add the words: "and all
                                white persons, male or female, who have the care of children
                                entitled to the benefits of this act," after the first three words
                                of the section.

                            The fifth section was then adopted.

                            The sixth section being read-

                            On motion by Mr. MILLER, the following words were added: "And the
                                auditor shall report to the superintendent of public instruction the
                                name and postoffice address of each trustee."

                            The sixth section was then adopted.

                            The seventh section being read-

                            On motion, the seventh and eighth sections were passed over
                                informally.

                            The ninth section being read-

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, all that relates to the employment of
                                teachers and the purchase of fuel, was stricken out.

                            The ninth section was then adopted.

                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the Committee rose, reported progress,
                                and asked to be discharged from the further consideration of the
                                subject.

                            On the further motion of Mr. STUDABAKER, the bill and report of the
                                Committee were made the special order for Tuesday, at 10 o'clock. 


                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                                The following described bills were read and referred to
                                    appropriate Committees, viz:

                                Judiciary-H R. 8, Messrs. March's 211, 223,
                                    226, 228, O'Brien's 213, Tarkington's 219, Blair's 229, and
                                    Claypool's 232.

                                Organization of Courts-Messrs. Claypool's 212,
                                    and Cravens' 221.

                                State Prison-Messrs. Beeson's 215 and
                                    Anthony's 222.

                                Finance-Mr. Wagner's 224.

                                Education-Mr. Tarkington's 225, 227.

                                Corporations-Messrs. Wagner's 230 and
                                    Newcomb's 231.

                                Messrs. Bearss' 214, Wagners 218 and Turner's, 220, were ordered
                                    engrossed.

                                Mr. MARCH introduced a bill [241] To amend sections 4 and 5 of an
                                    act. concerning interest on money, approved May 27, 1857.

                                And then the Senate (at 5:30) adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            SATURDAY, February 23, 1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.

                             Mr. STOTSENBERG presented petitions of 77 citizens of Indiana, of
                                Floyd county, 33 citizens of Pulaski county, and 133 citizens of
                                Boone county, without respect to party, asking the General Assembly
                                to instruct the commissioners to the Washington convention appointed
                                by the Governor, to co-operate with the friends of compromise on the
                                basis of the Crittenden propositions, or some other basis equally
                                fair and honorable; and that our Senators in Congress be instructed,
                                and our Representatives requested, to support some compromise on
                                that or a like basis.

                            Mr. POLK, Mr. JENKINSON, and Mr. ROBERTS presented similar petitions
                                numerously signed; which were severally referred to the
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. ROBERTS also presented the resolutions of a Union meeting held in
                                Chesterfield, Sparks Township, in the county of Dearborn, A. Smith,
                                chairman, and T. Alexander, secretary, expressive, he said, not only
                                of the feeling of the people of said township and county, but of the
                                people of the whole fourth Congressional district, with reference to
                                the support of the Constitution and the enforcement of the laws. It
                                was referred to the Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. BRANHAM presented a memorial, setting forth claims, which was
                                referred without reading to the Committee on
                                    Claims.

                            Mr. EDSON presented a petition for the protection of fences from the
                                invasions of hunters: which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Agriculture.

                            

                            Mr. DOBBINS presented the petition of J. B. Beaver, and over 700
                                others, citizens of Martin county, for relief of Thomas Holbert,
                                Treasurer of Martin county, from the replacement of $2,600, stolen
                                from the county treassury safe on the night of the 12th of last
                                December.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a remonstrance of sundry citizens
                                of Martin Co., against such relief.

                            Mr. DOBBINS said, in reply to the statement in the remonstrance, that
                                the treasury safe was blown open with powder; that a powder flask
                                was found in the office next morning, similar to one which had been
                                found in Warrick county ; that suspicions rested on certain parties
                                in Dover Hill in connection with this robbery, who were known to be
                                in correspondence with suspicious persons in Warrick, and it was
                                thought that proper diligence would lead to the detection of the
                                guilty. Mr. Holbert was an honest man, as the petition he had
                                presented abundantly attested, and as the Speaker himself could also
                                testify. He had been twice elected treasurer of Martin county. He
                                had deposited the county money where the Commissioners had directed
                                him, &c. He moved that the petition and remonstrance be referred
                                to the Committee on Claims, and that a statement of the funds
                                abstracted, which he sent up, might go along with the petition. They
                                were so referred.

                            Mr. FRASIER stated that he did not a ask for leave of absence, as
                                reported in this paper yesterday.

                            Mr. TURNER submitted a resolution directing the Clerk of the House to
                                write immediately to the Clerks of the Circuit and Common Pleas
                                Courts throughout the State, and ascertain how many cases have been
                                docketed at each term for 1859, 1860, and 1861, distinguishing
                                between civil and criminal cases, and guardianship, &c. He said
                                this information was necessary to decide upon the question of the
                                application for an increase of compensation for the clerks.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg, Mr. Bundy, and Mr. Fisher considered that it would
                                be impossible to get responses in time, &c.

                            The resolution was rejected.

                            Leave of absence, on, account of sickness, was granted to Messrs.
                                Lods, Brett, Prosser, and Ferguson. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON PLEAS JURY.

                            Mr. EDSON. from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Cameron's bill [58] to repeal the act of last session
                                to amend section 42 of the Common Pleas act of 1853, reporting
                                legislation inexpedient.

                            Mr. CAMERON. This bill was to repeal the act by which we cannot have
                                a jury in the Common Pleas till the third day of the term. This was
                                especially inconvenient since the Common Pleas have jurisdiction of
                                felony cases. In the smaller counties they always wanted a jury, and
                                the probate business could be done whilst the jury might be out. The
                                present law worked hardships in almost all the counties. The extra
                                expense of a jury from the first day in the larger counties would
                                not be so much as the expense of delays for want of a jury in the
                                smaller counties. He did not know but the success of the bill might
                                operate against the interests of the lawyers' &c. He had two
                                bills on this change of the law, which were connected and dependent
                                one upon the other.

                            Mr. EDSON replied, that there should be some time set apart in the
                                Common Pleas for probate business. It was for that business
                                principally that the Court was organized.

                            Mr. CASON said the Committee were unanimous in this report. It was to
                                save expense that the jury was not called on the first and second
                                days. Whilst the Court would be occupied with making up cases and
                                issues in probate, the jury would have nothing to do.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a letter from the W'arden and
                                Physician of the Jeffersonville Prison, asking for legislation to
                                authorize the transfer of insane prisoners to the State Asylum;
                                which was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Penitentiary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            INTEREST LAW.

                            Mr. BUNDY, from, the Judiciary Committee returned
                                the Committee's bill [84] concerning interest on money, with an
                                amendment of the 10th section, repealing the 51st section of the
                                Misdemeanor act of 1852. The Committee say that they have never seen
                                a case of prosecution for usury which did not originate in spite.
                                The amendment will harmonize the law. He said the Committee had
                                endeavored to carry out the wishes of the House.

                            Mr. FRASIER, Did the bill provide that the judgment should bear the
                                rate of interest in the contract ?

                            Mr. BUNDY. It was so understood by the Committee.

                            Mr. PARRETT. It should read: "Shall re-cover the principal with legal
                                interest"deducting the illegal interest where usury is plead.

                            Mr. BUNDY. That is in the bill.

                            Mr. PARRETT. It was not so in the last clause.

                            The House acquiesced, and it was so amended.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to amend the clause in the 3d section as to
                                judgments, by inserting, "interest not exceeding six per cent."

                            Mr. HEFFREN. This was obviously the wrong time to meddle with this
                                matter. It would compel every man indebted to pay ten per cent. Who
                                paid this ten per cent? It came from the laborers, the men of toil.
                                No interest was paid but what was paid by the labor of the country.
                                It was adding two-thirds to the burdens of usury already paid. It
                                was a bill to make the rich richer, and the poor poorer. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, MARCH 1, 1861
                        No. 18
                    

                    
                        

                        
                            

                             Mr. NEBEKER. There was no ten per cent bill before the House.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. It amounts to the same thing. It was the cat in the meal
                                tub. Men would pay ten per cent to their creditors rather than be
                                sued, and have costs piled up against them.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew replied. Poor men and married women's rights
                                should not help out the opponents of the bill.

                            Mr. Frasier's amendment to the 3d section was agreed to.

                            And then, as thus amended, the report of the Committee was concurred
                                in and the amendments adopted-yea 61, nay 19.

                            On motion of Mr. VEATCH, the bill was considered as engrossed, and
                                passed the third and last reading in the House-yeas 61, nays 18.
                        
                        

                        
                            WILLIAM F. BAGGETT.
                            Mr. JENKINSON desired to submit a resolution for the arrest of
                                William F. Baggett for contempt of this House, in refusing to appear
                                and testify before the committee to investigate the Northern State
                                prison.

                            The SPEAKER. That, would be rather a summary proceeding.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. There was no evidence of contempt. The committee should
                                report that fact first.

                            The SPEAKER. The gentleman from Allen, as chairman of the committee,
                                could make his report.

                            Mr. JENKINSON subsequently, as chairman of the Select
                                    Committee on the Northern State Prison,
                                reported that Wm. F. Bagget is in contempt of the House, in refusing
                                to appear as a witness before said committee, and asking for the
                                Speaker's warrant to arrest him.

                            Mr. ROBERTS said Mr. Baggett had a good excuse for his
                                non-attendance. He thought the witness would be here on Monday.

                            Mr. SHERMAN understood that the matter proposed to be proved by the
                                witness to be sent for had been proved before the committee over and
                                over again. It seemed to him that the object of this proceeding was
                                to delay the action of the committee. He hoped that if a resolution
                                were offered to send for this witness, it would not be adopted.

                            Mr. JENKINSON said that one of the contractors did not want this
                                witness to appear. There were $3,000 involved, about which Baggett
                                could testify. He submitted a resolution, That the Speaker of the
                                House be directed to issue his warrant to the Sergeant-at-arms to
                                bring the said Wm. F. Baggett before this House for contempt to be
                                returned forthwith.

                            The order was adopted by consent.

                            On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, his bill [283] providing for the payment of
                                $10,075 State's interest, due Jan. 1, 1861, was considered and
                                passed the second reading; and (the rules being suspended for the
                                purpose) it was considered as engrossed, and passed the third
                                reading of the House-yeas 82, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. WOODHULL, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned the bill [S. 111] to amend the assessment act, so that the
                                county-auditor, by his certificate for a deed in the sale of land
                                for taxes, shall not give possession of the land before the deed,
                                and reported that the committee recommend its passage.

                            The bill was ordered to the third reading.

                            Mr. CASON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Veatch's bill [160] to provide for a change of venue in civil
                                actions; for another judge where there is incompetency, and to
                                repeal, &c., recommending its passage.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. SHERMAN, from the Committee on Rights and Privileges, returned
                                the bill [S. 79] to amend the prairie hen section 4 of the Game law,
                                with an amendment, striking out "September" and inserting "August"
                                in lieu.

                            Mr. DOBBINS proposed to amend by striking out all that relates to
                                deer, quails, and turkies, which was ruled out of order.

                            The amendment of the committee was adopted, and ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Williams' free turnpike bill [205], with amendments, striking
                                out "majority" and inserting "two-thirds" in lieu; and inserting
                                appropriately the word "graded," and these words, "provided said
                                road be of general utility."

                            The amendments were adopted, and the bill as amended was ordered to
                                be engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WITNESS AND JURY FEES, &C.
                            Mr. CASON, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Mr. Gifford's bill [92] prescribing the duties of clerks, justices,
                                auditors, and treasurers, in relation to jury-fees, fines,
                                forfeitures  and unclaimed
                                fees; and repealing, &c., with a motion to lay it on the
                                table.

                            Mr. GIFFORD. There is no law requiring the treasurer to pay over
                                unclaimed money belonging to witnesses; but that was provided for in
                                this bill. If it is right to confiscate the time and money of
                                witnesses, then the present law is right. This is the same bill that
                                was reported by the Committee on Fees and Salaries at the last
                                session, where it was carefully considered and matured, and only
                                failed for want of time. He moved that it be recommitted to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. CASON. The bill would require considerable remodeling before it
                                could pass the House. It seemed to him that the existing law was
                                sufficient to protect any witness, or any other person having fees
                                in the hands of the treasurer.

                            Mr. BLACK. From the 10th page of the second volume of the Code of
                                1852, it was manifest that if the witness or juror should' not come,
                                he was cut out of his fees. This bill would help the school
                                fund.

                            Mr. Clifford's motion was agreed to, and the bill was
                                recommitted.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Packard's bill [108] to regulate the business of
                                foreign insurance corporations, with amendments, for a deposit of
                                $20,000 instead of $5,000the same to be increased to to 40,000 in
                                certain cases.

                            On motion of Mr. VEATCH, the bill was considered as engrossed, but
                                failed to pass the final reading-yeas 40, nays 30for want of a
                                constitutional majority of 51.

                            Mr. Roberts had leave of absence-sickness.

                            Mr. JONES of Vermillion, presented a petition from contractors on the
                                State prison; which was referred without reading.

                            On motion by Mr. GRESHAM, his bill [286] providing for compensation
                                of the judges of the Court of Common Pleas, was considered, passed
                                the second reading, and referred to the Committee on the
                                    Organization of Courts. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS.
                            Mr. HEFFREN asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill [293] to
                                amend sections 14 and 15 of the act of June 10, 1852, defining
                                felonies and prescribing punishment therefor-[rape and
                                seduction-imprisonment not less than 10 years.]

                            Mr. LEE, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned the letter of the Attorney
                                General, with reference to the Calumet Feeder Dam, and reported a
                                bill thereon, entitled, A bill [244] to provide for the necessary
                                judicial proceedings to procure the removal of the Feeder Dam across
                                the Calumet river in the State of Illinois, and to provide for the
                                expense of said suit.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg: [295] To amend sec. 26 of the act of last session to
                                amend the general city corporation law of 1857.

                            Mr. Hurd: [296] To amend section 15 of the act fixing the terms of
                                the Common Pleas & approved March 5, 1859.

                            Mr. SMITH thought he would be able at the proper time to satisfy the
                                House that there was no necessity for the bill 244. 

                            The foregoing bills were severally passed to the second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            GENERAL ASSEMBLY.
                            Mr. BUNDY submitted a joint resolution to be referred to the next
                                General Assembly, for amendment of article 4, sec. 2, of the
                                Constitution of the State of Indiana, reducing thc number of
                                Senators to 36, and the number of Representatives to 72. &c.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend, by adding: "The Constitution as
                                made by the Fathers of 1850 is good enough as it is, and we are
                                opposed to any amendment thereof;" which was laid on the table.

                            The first resolution was referred to the Committee on
                                    Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. ROBBINS, from the Committee on Mileage, to
                                report on a change of the rating of mileage of sheriff's and clerks,
                                reported legislation inexpedient: which was concurred in.

                            Mr. NEWMAN, from the Organization of Courts of
                                    Justice, returned Mr. Roberts' declaratory bill [145],
                                with a motion to indefinitely postpone the same: which was concurred
                                in.

                            Mr. FRASIER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    business, returned Mr. Knowlton's bill [144] to amend
                                section 94 of the assessment act, with a motion that the same be
                                laid on the table : which was concurred in.

                            He also returned certain resolutions together with the petition of J.
                                F. Denny, for a change of the law so as to provide a fixed salary
                                for county officers, graded according to population, with the
                                expression of opinion, that such legislation would not only increase
                                the burdens of taxation, but that it would be unconstitutional. They
                                therefore report a motion to lay the bill on the table : which was
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. LANE, from the same committee returned Mr. Polk's bill [148] to
                                amend section 7 of the act of '55 to regulate fees and salaries,
                                with a motion that it be laid on the table.

                            He also returned Mr. Jenkinson's bill [123] to authorize the owners
                                of towns to vacate lots, &c., with a motion that it be
                                indefinitely postponed: which reports were concurred in.

                            Mr. Grover from the same committee returned the Committee's bill
                                [137] to amend Sections 94 and 95 of the assessment act of 1852,
                                recommending passage.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            He also returned Mr. Heffren's workhouse bill [121] with a motion
                                that it be laid on the table : which was concurred in.

                            Mr. MOORMAN, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned sundry petitions from 
                                various portions of the State with reference to dogs ; and having
                                already reported a bill in conformity with the petitions they
                                recommend that the petitions be laid on the table; which was
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. TURNER, from the same committee, returned the petition of John W.
                                Ellis, and others in relation to seed-stock, reporting legislation
                                unnecessary: which was concurred in.

                            Mr. HURD, from the Committee on 
                                        Coporarations
                                        Corporations
                                    , returned Mr. McLean's bill [147] to amend
                                the 68th section of the corporation law, recommending passage. [It
                                proposes to give power to the common council to close streets and
                                alleys without petition, by the concurrence of two thirds.]

                            The report was laid on the table.

                            Mr. ERWIN returned Mr. Knowlton's bill [202] to amend section 650 of
                                the practice act mechanic's lien-recommending indefinite
                                postponement:

                            Mr. KNOWLTON, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned the resolution giving road companies power to take
                                materials (stone and wood) for repairs, with the opinion that
                                legislation is inexpedient thereon:

                            These reports were concurred in.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Select Committee thereon, returned Mr. Bundy's
                                bill [153] To amend the 9th section of the act regulating fees and
                                salaries, with an amendment, providing that no per centage whatever
                                shall be allowed to the county treasurer for redeeming county
                                orders, but five cents shall be allowed to him for each order so
                                redeemed. He said the bill was to settle existing questions and
                                difficulties, about the Treasurers compensation.

                            Mr. PARRETT thought he should not have anything for cancelling county
                                orders. He stated that he had received a certain anonymous letter
                                censuring him, as though he had asserted here that the auditors got
                                too much fees. He had, on the contrary, all the time stated that the
                                auditor did not receive enough, but that the treasurer got too
                                much.

                            Mr. VEATCH. There was but a very trifle of difference in this matter
                                between the amount of labor prescribed for the auditor and that for
                                the treasurer.

                            Mr. BOBBINS. The gentleman was right; and he hoped the amendment
                                would be adopted.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and under its operation,
                                the report was concurred in, the amendment adopted, and the bill
                                ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. ROBBINS made an ineffectual motion to adjourn till Monday, 9
                                o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            TIPPECANRE BATTLE GROUND.
                            Mr. BLACK submitted a resolution, which was adopted, directing the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means to inquire into
                                the expediency of fencing the Tippecanoe Battle Ground by running an
                                iron fence along the line of the railroad, and repairing the balance
                                of the fence with wood. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.
                            Mr. HAWORTH submitted a resolution, restricting speech in the House
                                to ten minutes.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed fifteen, which, on motion by Mr. CAMERON,
                                was laid on the table.

                            Mr. CASON proposed five minutes, which was adopted.

                            The SPEAKER. The resolution lies over till Monday.

                            Mr. CAMERON submitted a resolution to take up the consideration of
                                his apportionment bill No. 285; which was ruled out of order.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG submitted an order to print 200 copies of the Report
                                of the Hon. John H. Gray on the condition of the State Agent's
                                office, and matters pertaining thereto.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. That was a long Report, The Committee on Ways
                                    and Means were making a summary of it, which would be
                                embraced in their Report.

                            On motion of Mr. PARRETT, the order was laid on the table.

                            Mr. NEBEKER now submitted his resolution for no leave of absence
                                except in cases of sickness stated.

                            It was laid on the table.

                            Mr. GROVER asked leave of absence till Tuesday for Mr. Frasier.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG asked for leave for Mr. Combs : but the House
                                refused.

                            Mr. HEFFREN submitted an order for the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means to inquire into the expediency of a tax
                                assessment sufficient to pay off the State debt in five years.

                            The SPEAKER. A Special Joint Committee had boen appointed on that
                                subject.

                            Mr. HEFFREN withdrew the resolution. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. BRUCKER obtained leave of absence sickness.

                            Mr. HAWORTH submitted a resolution, which was adopted, viz:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Assistant Clerk be
                                            and he is hereby directed to make out and publish, as
                                            soon as possible alter the close of the present session,
                                            a complete list of all the bills introduced, and all the
                                            acts passed during the session.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. HENRICKS submitted the following, and asked that it be laid on
                                the table :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                             Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be
                                            directed to contract with ARIEL & W.
                                                H. DRAPIER for 600 copies of their Brevier
                                            Reports of the Proceedings and Debates of the present
                                            session of the General Assembly-one copy to be laid on
                                            the desk of each member of the House as printed, and the
                                            remainder to be bound and distributed as the Laws and
                                                Journals-Provided the said
                                            reports, except the binding, shall not cost more than
                                            one dollar per copy.
                                    
                                
                            

                            The SPEAKER. There seems to be a disposition to pass the
                                resolution.

                            Mr. HENRICKS. I do not want it acted upon at this time.

                            Mr. CRAIN. The House is too thin to pass any important
                                resolution.

                            The SPEAKER. It goes to the table. 


                            

                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                                Mr. Cameron's apportionment bill [288] coming up on the second
                                    reading-

                                Messrs. Heffren, Jenkinson, Dobbins, Horton, Bundy, Collins of
                                    Adams, Stevenson, Hayes, Smith of Bartholomew, Black, Edson,
                                    Atkisson, Ford, Cooprider and others proposed amendments ;
                                    when-

                                On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, it was ordered that it lie on the
                                    table, and that 300 copies thereof be printed for the use of the
                                    House of Representatives.

                                On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, leave was granted to withdraw the
                                    several proposed amendments.

                                On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, (the order of business being suspended
                                    for the purpose,) the report on the petition of John I. Morrison
                                    and others, for cleaning out the channel of the Muscatatack was
                                    taken from the table and referred again to the
                                        Committee on Swamp Lands.

                                The bill [S. 86] with Mr. Black's amendment; Mr. Nebeker's bill
                                    [209] and Mr. Kurd's [269] were severally referred to the
                                        Committee on Banks.

                                Mr. Hurd's bill 203; Mr. Grover's 207 ; Mr. Knowlton's 208; Mr.
                                    Campbell's 210; Mr. Hen-rick's 213; Mr. Kurd's 214; Mr.
                                    Bingham's 216; Mr. Mutz's 220 ; Mr. Williams'-222; Mr. Parrett's
                                    225; Mr. Veatch's 227 ; Mr. Brett's 229, with Mr. Stotsenberg's
                                    amendment; Ways and Means's 262; Mr. Edson's 272 with Mr.
                                    Stotsenberg's amendment; Mr. Smith of Bartholomew's 268; Mr.
                                    Bundy's 275; Mr. Stotsenberg's 276, 278; Mr. Hopkins's 280; Mr.
                                    Edson's 281; Mr. Speaker Allen's 2S2 ; Mr. Veatch's 288; Mr.
                                    Branham's 289, and Mr. Bryant's 291, were severally considered
                                    and passed the second reading, and referred to the
                                        Committee on the Judiciary.

                                Mr. Gifford's bill 215; Mr. Heffren's 224; Mr. Dobbin's 270; Mr.
                                    Bundy's 277; Mr. Knowlton's 279 ; Mr. Fisher's 284, and Mr.
                                    Orr's 290, were severally passed the second reading and referred
                                    to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.

                                Mr. Giffcrd's bill 211; Mr. Edson's 257 ; Mr. Knowlton's 266; Mr.
                                    Black's 273, and Mr. Owens' 274, were severally passed the
                                    second reading and referred to the Committee on Ways
                                        and Means.

                                Mr. Woods's bill 212; Mr. Bundy's 277, and Mr. Wilson's 287, were
                                    severally passed the second reading and referred to the
                                        Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.

                                Mr. Grover's bill 47 ; Mr. Jones of Wayne's 218; Mr. Crain's 235,
                                    264; Mr. Bingham's 258; Mr. Harvey's 259; Mr. Parrett's 261; Mr.
                                    Stotsenberg's 265, and Mr. Bundy's 267, 271, were severally
                                    passed the second reading and referred to the Committee
                                        on Corporation.

                                Mr. Roberta's bill 219, with Mr. Williams's amendment, and Mr.
                                    Kendrick's 223, were severally passed the second reading and
                                    referred to the Committee on Agriculture.

                                Mr. Jenkinson's notary bill No. 221, coming up-

                                On motion of Mr. Speaker ALLEN, (Mr. Bundy in the Chair,) it was
                                    laid on the table.

                                Mr. Lee's common pleas bill 226, was passed the second reading
                                    and referred to Messrs Lee, Crain and Owens.

                                Mr. Edson's constable bill 260, was ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. Veatch's normal school bill 292, coming up, was passed the
                                    second reading and referred to the Committee on
                                        Education. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW BILLS
                                Were introduced and passed to the second reading, viz.:

                                Mr. Stotsenberg: [295] To amend section 26 of the general city
                                    corporation act of March 5, 1857.

                                Mr. Hurd: [296] To amend section 15 Of the act fixing the terms
                                    of common pleas, &c. (affecting the counties of Benton,
                                    White, Carroll and Tippecanoe.)

                                Mr. Speaker Allen: [297] Fixing the court terms in the third
                                    judicial circuit.

                                Mr. Stotsenberg: [298] To regulate the rate of exchange, &c.,
                                    and declaring it usury to take or charge exchange contrary to
                                    the provisions thereof, by any individual, association or
                                    corporation.

                                Mr. Bundy: [299] To prohibit the judges from practicing law in
                                    any of the courts of this State.

                                Mr. Lee: [300] To amend section 6 of the act of 1852, prescribing
                                    the powers, duties, &c.. of justices of the peace.

                                Mr. Stotsenberg: [301] To amend the 4th section of the act
                                    touching the relation of guardian and ward, &c. 
                            
                            

                            
                                POLL TAX.
                                Mr. UNDERWOOD submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                        Committee on Ways and Means inquire into
                                    the expediency of repealing all laws with referene to the
                                    assessment and collection of a poll tax. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE SCHOOL FUND.
                                Mr. BLACK submitted a resolution, which was adopted, that the
                                        Committee on Ways and Means inquire into
                                    the expediency of providing for the payment of all the school
                                    fund due by the State to the sinking fund commissioners.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG presented the petition of sundry citizens of
                                    Floyd county, for the protection of sheep against dogs, which
                                    was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                                He also presented a petition, signed by 43 citizens of Greenville
                                    township, Floyd county, for compromise on the Crittenden
                                    amendments, which was referred to the Committee of
                                        Thirteen.

                                The House then adjourned till Monday morning 9 o'clock. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            MONDAY, February 25, 1861.
                        

                        The Senate was called to order by Mr WAGNER.

                        Mr. WHITE introduced a bill [243] to amend the title of an act concerning
                            promissory notes and bills of exchange, approved May 12, 1852, so as to
                            include bonds and other instruments of writing, and so to amend section
                            1 of said act; which was passed the first reading. 

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Senate bills, introduced Saturday, were read the second time and
                                referred to committees,viz.:

                            
                                FinanceMessrs. Bearss' 233, and Mr. March's
                                    242.

                                Judiciary-Messrs. DeHart's 235, Miller's
                                    23T, and Studabaker's 239.

                                
                                    Agriculture-Mr. Anthony's 236.

                                Corporations-Mr. O'Brien's 238.

                                Banks-Mr. Tarkington's 240.

                                County and Township Business-Mr. Miller's
                                    241.

                            

                            Mr. White's 234 was ordered engrossed.

                            The following House bills were read and referred to appropriate
                                committees, viz :

                            Organization of Courts-The bill [H. R. 3] to
                                provide for holding common pleas courts in Newton county.

                            The bill [H. R. 39] to authorize the formation of new counties,
                                &c., coming up-

                            Mr. ANTHONY made an ineffectual motion to pass it over
                                informally.

                            Mr. HULL. If it could be made the special order for some hour
                                to-morrow, I would consent; but I wish to press the matter because
                                it has to be acted upon so as to reach rny county this week, or else
                                it will be indifferent to me whether it is passed at all or not.

                            The bill being read by the Secretary-

                            Mr. HULL. Upon consultation with some of the friends of this measure,
                                I will move to refer it to the Judiciary
                                    Committee, with instructions to report it back
                                to-morrow morning.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. If gentlemen are willing to let this bill go to the
                                committee without these instructions, I have no objections, but I
                                will not consent to have a matter of this importance hurried through
                                in this way with only a dozen members in the Senate.

                            Mr. HULL. All the members of that committee will certainly be here
                                this afternoon. I must insist that we take action upon this bill as
                                soon as possible; it is due to my county at least.

                            Mr. TURNER. This is a matter of great importance, and action should
                                be had upon it immediately. Commissioners' courts will be held in
                                all the counties of the State a week from to-day, and this bill, if
                                passed, should be passed before that time.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to amend, viz.: "provided nothing in this act
                                contained shall effect any county now fully organized under existing
                                laws."

                            Mr. ANTHONY. We are acting upon an important proposition without a
                                quorum There is no necessity for pressing this matter m this
                                way.

                            Mr. HULL modified his motion at the suggestion of Mr. MILLER, so as
                                to direct the committee to report back the bill day after
                                tomorrow.

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON the instructions to report back were laid
                                on the table.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS offered a substitute for the amendment, to-wit: "Nothing
                                in this bill shall be so construed as to interfere with the
                                formation of the county of Newton."

                            The bill, with pending amendments, was referred to the
                                    Judiciary Committee.

                            The bill H. R. 103 was referred to the Committee on
                                    Roads.

                            The bill H. R. 44 was referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee with an amendment proposed by Mr. MILLER to
                                strike out " three years" and insert "five years" as also were the
                                bills H. R, 107 and 167.

                            The bill H. R. 199 was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture, with an amendment by Mr. WOLFE,
                                legalizing purchases heretofore made.

                            The bill H. R. 283 was passed the first reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NUMBER OF MEMBERS OF THE LEGISLATURE.
                            Mr. LOMAX offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Joint
                                                Committee on Apportionment be instructed
                                            to inquire into the expediency of reducing the number of
                                            Senators to thirty, and the number of Representatives to
                                            sixty; and if such reduction be expedient to report a
                                            bill apportioning the State accordingly.
                                    
                                
                            

                            The resolution was adopted by consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SESSION HOURS.
                             Mr. CARNAHAN offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That during the remainder of
                                            this session the Senate will meet at half-past eight
                                            o'clock a. m. and half-past one o'clock p. m. of each
                                            day.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which lies on the table for one day.

                            Mr. MILLER presented two petitions from citizens of Marshall county,
                                praying for a law to sell fermenated liquors, such as small beer,
                                cider and native wine, without license; referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance; and for the
                                protection of fish in the small lakes of the State; referred to the
                                    Committee on Rights Privileges.

                            On motion by Mr. FERGUSON his bill 109 was taken from the table and
                                placed on the files.

                            And then (at 11) came the recess till 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION
                            The PRESIDENT announced the special order for this hour to be the
                                consideration of the Select Committee's bill, introduced Saturday,
                                making an appropriation of $500 for the erection of,a monument to
                                Hon. Jonathan Jennings-the question being on an amendment to the
                                amendment.

                            Mr. WAGNER accepted the amendment to his amendment, appropriating
                                $2,500 for the erection of a monument on the Tippecanoe Battle
                                Ground.

                            

                            Mr. WOLFE moved to lay the amendment on the table.

                            Mr. RAY should vote for this motion because he considered the effect
                                of the amendment would be to kill the bill.

                            The motion was agreed to by yeas 20, nays 15.

                            The majority report of the committee was then concurred in by yeas
                                22, nays 18; and then the bill [244] was thus passed to the second
                                reading. 


                            
                                PAY OF COMMISSIONERS.
                                The PRESIDENT announced another special order, viz.: The
                                    consideration of Mr. Conner's resolution, offered on Saturday,
                                    providing pay to the Peace Commissioners.

                                The resolution was adopted. 
                            
                            

                            
                                FISCAL AFFAIRS OF THE STATE.
                                On motion of Mr. WAGNER, the joint resolution H. R. 31-see page
                                    245 of these Reports-appointing an investigating commission, was
                                    taken up, and passed by yeas 28, nays 10. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE EMBEZZLEMENT BILL.
                                Mr. March's bill 1 coming up on the third reading, on his motion
                                    it was recommitted to the Judiciary
                                    Committee, with instructions to strike out all that
                                    relates to State officers. 
                            
                            

                            
                                LICENSE FOR THE SALE OF LIQUORS.
                                Mr Cravens' bill 20-described on page 30 of these Reports-being
                                    read the third time-

                                Mr. CRAVENS. There is only one provision in, the bill, and that
                                    is simply the principle of popular sovereignty as applied to
                                    drinking and liquors. It provides that the applicant for
                                    license, or parties to the remonstrance, may have an appeal from
                                    the Board of County Commissioners to the Circuit Court, and
                                    there a trial by jury shall be final.

                                Mr. SLACK would not vote for the bill unless the Common Pleas
                                    Court have concurrent jurisdiction in these cases.

                                Mr. CRAVENS would not object to that.

                                Mr. WOLFE. If there was nothing but popular sovereignty in the
                                    bill I should vote for it, but I understand it gives to every
                                    individual in the county the power to prevent the issuing of
                                    licenses at the proper time, and until the action of the circuit
                                    court should be had upon it. I am opposed to any such clogs as
                                    this being put to the present law,-which is about as good as we
                                    can well make it. If it is right to grant licenses, it is not
                                    right to permit a single individual to thwart the intention of
                                    the law in this way. There is less evil under a license law than
                                    under a quart law. This bill is for the purpose of obstructing
                                    the issuing of licenses, and I cannot vote for it.

                                Mr. RAY. The bill is objectionable on the points made by the
                                    Senator from Harrison. The present law I believe to be as
                                    acceptable as any law could be to the varied sentiments of our
                                    population. The people are acquiescing in it. By this bill you
                                    might tie up a license one or two years; for you can always find
                                    a man more or less tinctured with the fanaticism of temperance
                                    who will remonstrate; and the docket of the Circuit Court would
                                    be filled with such cases. I oppose it on these grounds, for I
                                    am in favor of giving the present liquor law a fair trial as it
                                    is. 

                                Mr. CRAVENS. The provisions of this bin will not contravene any
                                    provision of the old law. With that law, as it was intended and
                                    as it ought to be, I am satisfied. What is th benefit of a right
                                    to a remonstrance unless something can be accomplished by it?
                                    [He cited a case in point decided by the Supreme Court.] This
                                    bill is simply to make effective the provisions of the law which
                                    says that parties dissenting shall have the privilege of
                                    remonstrance.

                                Mr. LANDERS. I shall have to vote against this bill from the fact
                                    that the people of my county are satisfied with the law we now
                                    have-and I would vote for 110 change unless it be to compel
                                    parties to procure license to sell a greater quantity than a
                                    quart at a time.

                                Mr. MELLETT. I can see nothing in the objections raised to this
                                    bill. In order to make the law perfect, and as it was intended
                                    give to the remonstrants the right of appeal-do justice to all
                                    the parties.

                                Mr. MILLER made an ineffectual demand for the previous
                                    question.

                                Mr. WOLFE made an ineffectual motion to indefinitely postpone the
                                    bill-yeas 14, nays 26.

                                Mr. MARCH. The present law ought to be entitled "An act making
                                    the selling of liquor respectable;" this bill cannot make it
                                    more obnoxious, and may improve it.

                                Mr. CARNAHAN. 1 shall vote against the bill, because I believe
                                    county boards are fully competent so settle the matter. I have
                                    heard no complaint, in my section, of the law as it now
                                    stands.

                                On Mr. SLACK'S motion, and by unanimous consent, the bill was
                                    amended so as to provide for an appeal to the Common Pleas
                                    Court, also.

                                Mr. WHITE. I am opposed to much more legislation on this subject,
                                    but believe I will vote for this bill.

                                Mr. WAGNER. I shall vote for this bill because I don't think our
                                    county Commissioners and Court juries will permit men to sell
                                    liquor hereafter.

                                The bill was then finally passed by-years 26, nays 15-as
                                    follows:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Bearss,
                                                Beeson, Berry, Blair, Campbell, Claypool, Conner,
                                                Craven of Madison, Cravens of Jefferson, Culver,
                                                DeHart, Grubb, Hull, March, Mellett, Miller,
                                                Newcomb, Robinson, Steele, Stone, Tarkington,
                                                Teegarden, Turner, Wagner, and White-26.

                                            NAYS-Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb,
                                                Ferguson, Jones, Landers, Line, Lomax, Ray, Shields,
                                                Shoemaker, Shoulders, Slack, Studabaker, Williams,
                                                and Wolfe-15. 
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                            
                            

                            
                                QUALIFICATION OF VOTERS.
                                Mr. Blair s bill S. 30-see pages 45, 217 and 218 of these
                                    reports-was read the third time.

                                

                                On Mr. LANDER'S motion the bill was amended by consent so as to
                                    require the voter to vote in the ward in which he may reside, at
                                    all State elections.

                                Mr. MARCH. I believe this bill comes as near meeting the views of
                                    a majority of the Senate as it can be made. This matter has been
                                    before two or three committees and I believe we had better vote
                                    for it as it is, than to run the risk of delays and attempts to
                                    modify it.

                                Mr. SHIELDS. I cannot see the necessity Of passing any law that
                                    will disfrancise any actual settler. It is our policy to make
                                    the right of suffrage as free as possible; and a bona fide resident of this State moving his family
                                    from one county to another should not be deprived of his right
                                    to vote.

                                Mr. STUDABAKER. I believe the word "residence" has a legal
                                    significance and that it is not in the power of the Legislature
                                    to change its meaning by requiring a certain length of time.
                                    Residence consists in the intention of a person to remain ; and
                                    if that is the correct view it is not in the power of the
                                    Legislature to say he shall not have the right to vote until he
                                    resides in a precinct 15 or 30 days. I think the provisions of
                                    this bill ought to be the law, but under the Constitution
                                    cannot; that its passage would produce litigation ; and these
                                    are the reasons why I shall vote against it.

                                Mr. MARCH. The object of this law is to prevent the
                                    transmigration of voters-this moving from one county to another.
                                    If such a rule could be be adopted I should like to see no man
                                    excluded, but that cannot be done, and I hope the bill may pass
                                    as it is.

                                Mr. WOLFE reveiwed the provisions of the bill, and desired, but
                                    failed to obtain unanimous consent, to add a provision to the
                                    clause concerning foreign vote is " that such certificates shall
                                    not be required of such voter."

                                Mr. FERGUSON. We ought to be careful in keeping out fraudulent
                                    voters, not to disfranchise legal ones. With the Senator from
                                    Adams, [Mr. Studabaker,] I cannot vote for this bill because of
                                    constitutional objections.

                                The was then finally passed by yeas 29, nays 11-as follows :

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Barss,
                                                Beeson, Berry, Blair, Campbell, Claypool, Conner,
                                                Cravens of Jefferson, DeHart, Grubb, Hull, Jones,
                                                Landers, March, Mellett, Miller, Ray, Robinson,
                                                Shields, Shoemaker, Steele, Stone, Tarkington,
                                                Teegarden, Turner, Wagner, White, and
                                                Williams-29.

                                            NAYS-Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb,
                                                Craven of Madison' Ferguson, Line, Lomax, Newcomb,
                                                Shoulders, Slack, Studabaker, and Wolfe-11. 
                                        
                                    
                                

                            
                            

                            
                                THE PROTECTION OF FISH.
                                Mr. Claypool's bill S. 40-see pages 46, 164 and 170 of these
                                    Reports-was read the third time.

                                Mr. SLACK moved to recommit, with instructions to amend so as to
                                    except "any other stream, river, bayou or pond in the State of
                                    Indiana."

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL objected to any amendment. It seems to be the desire
                                    of Senators to pass some bill of this kind; the one under
                                    consideration had been perfected in Committee, and was probably
                                    as near right as it could be made.

                                Mr. MILLER submitted additional instructions, viz : to exempt the
                                    St. Joseph and Kankakee rivers.

                                Mr. COBB made an ineffectual motion-yeas 18, nays 22-to
                                    indefinitely postpone the bill.

                                Mr. SLACK. I think the bill is unconstitutional, and that the
                                    catfish, dogfish, suckers, and other fishes dwelling in the
                                    streams that are excepted, have no more rights than the fish in
                                    other streams. [Laughter.] It is giving privileges and
                                    immunities to one class which are denied to another. Seriously,
                                    I do think the bill is a local one, for it makes exceptions in
                                    certain localities.

                                Mr. CARNAHAN. I regard this law as not only a local law, but a
                                    foolish law. Such laws are not required, and are only a source
                                    of contention and strife.

                                On motion by Mr. LINE, the motion to re-recommit was laid on the
                                    table-yeas 21, nays 15.

                                Mr. MILLER asked, but failed to obtain leave, to amend the bill
                                    by unanimous consent, so as to except the St. Joseph river.The
                                    bill was then rejected by yeas 16, nays 22, as follows :

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Bearss,
                                                Beeson, Blair, Claypool, Craven of Madison, Cravens
                                                of Jefferson, DeHart, Grubb, Hull, Line, March,
                                                Mellett, Newcomb, Steele, and Wagner-16.

                                            NAYS-Messrs.Berry,Campbell,
                                                Carnahan, Cobb, Jones, Landers, Lomax, Miller, Ray,
                                                Robinson, Shields, Shoemaker, Shoulders, Slack,
                                                Stone, Studabaker, Tarkington, Teegarden, Turner,
                                                White, Williams and Wolfe-22. 
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                COMMON PLEAS' ATTORNEY' SALARY.
                                Mr. Line's bill S. 54-see pages 69, 171 and and 192 of these
                                    Reports-was read the third time.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB explained its provision.

                                Mr. WOLFE. I think this is not the kind of a bill we ought to
                                    pass. It gouges a little too deep. I think the clause that pays
                                    prosecuting attorneys out of the county treasury is particularly
                                    objectionable, and on account of that section I will have to
                                    vote against it.

                                On motion by Mr. MELLETT, the bill was recommitted, with
                                    instructions to strike out all in relation to paying fees out of
                                    the county treasury. 
                            
                            

                            
                                POLL TAX FOR COUNTY PURPOSES.
                                Mr. Wolfe's bills 57-see pages 69 and 194 of these Reports-was
                                    read the third time.

                                Mr. W. explained his bill, as before.

                                The bill was then finally passed, by yeas 28, nays 6. 
                            
                            

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.
                                Mr. MARCH, by leave, introduced a bill [245,] for the relief of
                                    Joseph Moore.

                                Mr. HULL introduced a bill [246,] supplementary to an act to
                                    provide for the election and appointment of supervisors of
                                    highways, &c., approved March 5, 1859.

                                Which were passed the first reading.

                                And then the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY, February 25,1861.
                        

                        On motion of Mr. FISHER, the order of business was suspended, and the
                            House proceeded to the consideration of bills from the Senate on the
                            second reading. 

                        
                            RAILROADS, ETC.
                             The bill [S. 81] To authorize and regulate the sale and perfect the
                                title of railroads sold by foreclosure of mortgage, &c.; to
                                reorganize rail road corporations and to legalize the sale of
                                railroads heretofore made, coming up-

                            Mr. CRAIN proposed to amend so as to include accommodation
                                indorsers.

                            Mr. DOBBINS proposed to amend by adding a clause, to the effect, that
                                all property passing into the possession of railroads organized
                                under this act shall be subject to lien for damages on account of
                                stock killed by locomotives along their lines.

                            On motion by Mr. FISHER, the bill and amendments were referred to a
                                Select Committee of Three; which the Speaker makes to consist of
                                Messrs. Fisher, Crain and Bundy.

                            The Dog bill [S. 16], coming up-

                            Mr. FLEMING proposed to amend, by a clause for a bounty of 50 cents
                                on each wildcat scalp, &c., to be paid out of the funds arising
                                from the Dog tax. He also proposed to exempt one dog to each family
                                from taxation.

                            Mr. JENKINSON proposed to amend, by striking out "50 cents," and
                                inserting a provision, that each head of a family shall be entitled
                                to keep one dog without taxation.

                            The bill and amendments were referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            The bills from the Senate numbered 18, 44, 77, 25, and 52, were
                                severally passed to the third reading.

                            The bill from the Senate, No. 56, was referred to the
                                    Committee on County and Township
                                Business.

                            The bills from the Senate numbered 26, 116, 163, 104, 175, 38, and
                                36, with Mr. Fisher's amendment, were severally referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            The bill from the Senate, No. 46, was referred to the
                                    Committee on Elections. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW BILLS
                            Were introduced and passed to the second reading, viz:

                            Mr. Heffren: [302] Providing for taking the sense of the people on
                                the Crittenden and on the Border States propositions(on the 1st
                                Monday in April.)

                            Mr. BLACK : [303] To amend section 7 of the act of June 16, 1852,
                                providing for the election of Clerks, &c., and supplemental
                                thereto, prescribing the management and disposition of certain funds
                                therein named; fixing penalties, repealing, &c.

                            Mr. Veatch: [304] Providing for the salary of the Attorney General,
                                and repealing all laws in conflict with this act.

                            Mr. Cameron: [305] Providing for the payment of the Indiana Peace
                                Commissioners th mode and manner of payment, and the amount to be
                                paid said Commissioners. [$ per day $100 mileage.] 

                            Mr. Ragan: [306] To amend sections one and ten, and to repeal
                                sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,8 of the liquor law of March, 1859. 

                            Mr. Heffren: [307] to provide for the appointment of proper persons
                                to supervise roads when such roads extend into more than one
                                township.

                            Mr. Heffren: [308] To provide for the mode and manner of appraising
                                real estate to be mortgaged to the School fund. [Appraisement of the
                                Treasurer on the Tax Duplicate.]

                            Mr. Heffren: [309] Concerning partition, fences, and prescribing who
                                may join fence.

                            Mr. Cameron: [310] To provide for the government and discipline of
                                the State Prison: to repeal the act of 1857, &c., and also so
                                much of the act of 1859, providing for the erection of a new prison
                                north of the National road, as comes in conflict with this act.

                            Mr. Henricks: [311] To empower the Directors of the Bank of the State
                                of Indiana to clear up and discontinue the Branch at Ply. mouth in
                                Marshall county, and to relocate a Branch at some other place.

                            Mr. Packard: [312] To amend section 19, of the act of March, 1859,
                                providing for a more uniform mode of doing township business.
                                [Trustees shall have sole control of roads where they are confined
                                to the township.]

                            Mr. Grover: [314] Authorizing persons owning land along the line of
                                any private road to maintain gates thereon, and providing for the
                                removal of the same.

                            Mr. Heffren: [313] To provide for the mode and manner of electing
                                United States Senators[by joint session the third Thursday in
                                January.]

                            Mr. JONES of Tippecanoe, from the Committee on
                                    Temperance, returned sundry petitions and the bills
                                numbered 38, 74, 128 by Messrs.: Bracker, Brett, and Roberts, with a
                                motion, as to the petitions, that they be laid on the table, and as
                                to the bills, that they be indefinitely postponed. The Committee
                                express the opinion that any material change of the present liquor
                                law, at the present time, would be highly inexpedient, because it
                                has given such general satisfaction on a subject upon which people
                                differ so widely. With respect to some of the provisions in the
                                bills reported against, they report a bill in lieu, but strictly
                                amendatory of the existing law; viz : a bill [315] to amend sections
                                3, 4, 5, 9, 11 of the liquor law of March 5, 1859; which was passed
                                to the second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.
                            Mr. Hurd's bill 296 ; Mr. Bundy's 299, and Mr. Speaker Allen's 297
                                were ordered to be engrossed. The latter bill fixing the times in
                                the Third Judicial Circuit, makes the Knox  county term the last in the series,
                                and gives as much time as may be necessary.

                            Mr. Heffren's bill 293; the Committee's 294; Mr. Stotsenberg's 295,
                                with Mr. Jenkinson's amendment; and Mr. Lee's 300, were referred to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg's 298 was referred to the Committee on
                                    Banks.

                            Mr. Ferguson's 301 was referred to the Committee on the
                                    Organization of Courts. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS.
                             Mr. PACKARD presented the petition of sundry citizens of Marshall
                                county for the amendment of the llth section of the liquor law, so
                                as either to exonerate the vender from the penalty for selling to a
                                minor, or make it it penal offence for a minor to ask for liquor
                                assuming to be over 21 years : which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Temperance.

                            Mr. BURGESS presented the petition of sundry citizens of Hendricks
                                county, for amendment of the township law so as to require a road
                                tax to be assessed and collected, of not less than 10 cents nor more
                                than 20 cents on the $100: which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Roads.

                            Mr. PACKARD presented the petition of sundry citizens of the State of
                                Indiana for legislative instructions for a compromise on the basis
                                of the Crittenden propositions, or some other basis equally fair and
                                honorable : which was referred to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen.

                            Mr. VEATCH presented the pettition of F. S. Riggs, A. E. Barker and
                                55 others, citizens of Warrick county, for legislation against
                                sheep-killing dogs: which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS.
                            Resolutions to the following effect were submitted and adopted,
                                viz:

                            Mr. ORR: That the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts inquire into the expediency of so amending the
                                law regulating decedent's estates, as to allow executors and
                                administrators to sue before a justice of the peace.

                            Mr. HENRICKS: Declaring a discrepany of $1,939 between the State
                                Auditors reported statements of the receipts and expenditures on
                                account of Swamp Lands belonging to St. Joseph county, for the year
                                1859 and the year 1860, and calling upon him to report what
                                disposition has been made of that $1,939 unaccounted for, and also
                                to explain the omission in the account of five months' time from
                                Nov. 1, 1859, to April 1, 1860.

                            Mr. EDSON. That the Judiciary Committee inquire
                                whether legislation for the speedy payment of the public debt and
                                the completion of the Wabash and Erie Canal would be expedient;
                                whether some of the officers of said canal cannot be dispensed with;
                                whether some mode cannot be proposed to keep up said canal; and
                                whether the people living along the canal can be allowed to maintain
                                the same, without incurring any public liability?

                            Mr. GRESHAM: That the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts inquire into the expediency of allowing the
                                prosecuting attorneys in the Common Pleas Court the same fees now
                                allowed to the Prosecuting Attorneys in the Circuit Court. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. WARRUM obtained leave to introduce a bill [316] to regulate the
                                Practice in the Circuit and Common Pleas on appeals from Justices of
                                the Peace; which was passed to the second reading.

                            The House took up the consideration of Mr. Henricks' resolution, to
                                authorize a subscription for 600 copies of the BREVIER
                                    LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.

                            Mr. HENRICKS said: Mr. Drapier, the author of these Reports, is a
                                citizen of my county-a man with whom I am pretty well acquainted,
                                having had the honor of canvassing the county with him last fall. He
                                is a Democrat, and although I did my best and failed to convince him
                                that the Democracy is not correct, he was able to convince me that
                                he is a gentleman. Of the value of the work, and of his competency
                                as a reporter, it is unnecessary to speak. His reports speak for
                                themselves.

                            Messrs. CRAIN, NEBEKER, UNDERWOOD and FORD opposed the resolution,
                                and Mr. HEFFREN supported it.

                            Mr. NEBEKER demanded the yeas and nays, which were ordered and taken,
                                resulting-yeas 38, nays 41; so the resolution was rejected.

                            Mr. Haworth's resolution, limiting speeches in debate to five
                                minutes, coming up-

                            Mr. ROBERTS thought fifteen minutes would be short time enought for a
                                speech.

                            Mr. SHERMAN considered the time had now come for the consideration of
                                such business as would call to the floor modest members like
                                himself, who had been holding back all the session, and he desired
                                they should have the privilege of speech.

                            The SPEAKER. Does the gentleman expect to lose his character for
                                modesty?

                            Mr. SHERMAN. No.

                            Mr. FISHER proposed to insert the words: "without the consent of the
                                House."

                            Mr. HEFFREN disliked anything like a gag rule.

                            Mr. CAMERON proposed to insert" except on questions relating to the
                                Northern Prison."

                            Mr. VEATCH proposed: "The rule shall not apply to modest members."
                                [Laughter.]

                            Mr. BUNDY. It was just now time that bills should be discussed. On
                                his motion the resolution and amendments were laid on the table. 


                            
                                GIBSON COUNTY SEMINARY.
                                Mr. Holcomb's bill [42] to authorize the Judge of the Circuit
                                    Court for Gibson county  to
                                    hear testimony and make a decree tn relation to the sale of the
                                    county seminary of said county, coming up in order on the third
                                    reading-

                                Mr. EDSON explained that a number of persoas had subscribed for
                                    the erection of this seminary, and the object of the testimony
                                    was to ascertain the amount so subscribed.

                                The bill was passed the final reading-yeas 80, nays 2.

                                Mr. Grover's bill [46] to legalize the acts and proceedings of
                                    certain special terms of the Circuit Court, coming up, it was
                                    passed the final reading-yeas 69, nays 10. 
                            
                            

                            
                                STOCK BROKERS' LICENSE.
                                Mr. Speaker Allen's bill [13] for refunding license money
                                    illegally collected under the act of June 15, 1852, (which
                                    heretofore failed for want of a constitutional majority,) coming
                                    up-

                                Mr. Speaker ALLEN (Mr. Heffren in the Chair) again explained its
                                    provisions; and then-

                                The bill was passed the final reading-yeas 53, nays 24. 
                            
                            

                            
                                JUSTICES OF THE PEACE.
                                Mr. Collins of Whitley's bill [52] to authorize Justices of the
                                    Peace to administer any oath required by law, coming up, it was
                                    passed the final reading-yeas 70, nays 0.

                                Mr. Hopkin's bill [81] to quiet the title of an outlot in
                                    Evansville, corning up, it was passed the final reading-yeas 80,
                                    nays 0. 
                            
                            

                            
                                TREASURY SYSTEM.
                                Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, from the Select Committee thereon,
                                    returned the bill from the Committee on Public expenditures
                                    [161] to amend the 11th section of the act of March 1, 1859, to
                                    provide a Treasury system, with verbal amendments; which were
                                    agreed to; and then-

                                On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, it was considered as engrossed and
                                    passed the final reading-yeas 78, nays 11. 

                                Mr. Dobbin's bill [69] To amend the act providing for serving
                                    process on officers, directors, attorneys or agents of any
                                    railroad, approved March 4, 1853, coming up-

                                Mr. DOBBINS explained, that it was to change the time of process
                                    from 30 days, to not less than 15 days, &c.

                                Mr. Speaker ALLEN (Mr. Heffren in the Chair) said, under this
                                    bill, process may be served any time over 15 days.

                                Mr. FISHER objected to the expense of the newspaper publication
                                    clause.

                                The bill was passed the final reading-yeas 68, nay 8.

                                Mr. Newman's bill [41] to amend the levee act, coming up,

                                Mr. NEWMAN, seeing that, by the act of 1859 the object of the
                                    bill was accomplished, on his motion, it was laid on the table.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                TAXING POWER OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                Mr. Jenkinson's bill [5] To restrict the Commissioner's taxing
                                    power to 50 cents the $100-passed and recalled from the Senate,
                                    coming up-

                                The SPEAKER (Mr. Heffren in the Chair.) There had been words
                                    interpolated which were not in it when the bill passed. The
                                    proper course to reach the case would be reconsideration.

                                Mr. FRASIER said the effect of this bill would be to reduce the
                                    price of county orders. This was alleged in the Fort Wayne
                                    newspapers. He moved that the bill be indefinitely
                                    postponed.

                                Mr. JENKINSON. He knew that this bill was wanted in Allen county.
                                    This opposition came from the Court House Clique. And John
                                    Dawson was their organ, who could be hired to abuse any
                                    body.

                                Mr. WOODHULL supported the motion to postpone; and opposed the
                                    bill at length in reply. No man had a right to change a bill any
                                    more than he has to change the matter of an indictment.

                                Mr. HORTON representing, in part, two of the smallest counties in
                                    the State, the passage of this bill would devolve upon them both
                                    a county debt. In all the small counties it would be sometimes
                                    necessary to levy a tax of from 65 to 70 cents on the $100.

                                Mr. JENKINSON gave some words of general and special denunciation
                                    of John Dawson, editor of the Fort Wayne Times. Dawson's paper was rejected wherever it was carried
                                    into respectable families. His opposition was better than his
                                    friendship.

                                Mr. CRAIN. There was, it seems, one county in the State desiring
                                    the passage of this bill. It was not generally desired. He knew
                                    there were counties that ought to levy more than 50 cents on the
                                    $100 for county purposes, and in all such cases they could not
                                    desire it. Therefore he was opposed to the bill.

                                Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and there being a
                                    second, the bill was indefinitely postponed-yeas 51, nays
                                    30.

                                Mr. FRASIER moved to reconsider this vote, and to lay the motion
                                    on the table. The latter motion was agreed to.

                                Mr. Collins of Adams's bill [47] to amend the 29th section of the
                                    Supervisors' act of March 5, 1856. coming up-

                                Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, explained that the object of the bill was
                                    to extend the time from the 15th of September to the 1st of
                                    November, to farmers and others to do their work on the
                                    roads.

                                Mr. CASON, Mr. FRASIER and others considered that since the time
                                    for returns was to be prolonged from March till June, that would
                                    obviate the principal difficulty in the case. Roads worked late
                                    in the Ml were not made better for it. 

                                

                                On motion of Mr. COLLINS, the bill was laid on the table.

                                Mr. Jones of Vermillion's Circuit Court bill [51], coming up-

                                On motion by Mr. CRAIN, at the request of its author, it was laid
                                    on the table.

                                Mr. Frasier's bill [173] supplemental to the acts of March 2,
                                    '55, and December 28, '58, for (the relocation of county seats,
                                    so as to provide for the relocation of county seats where no
                                    court house has been erected, coming up-

                                Mr. MOODY made a brief statement of its effect.

                                The bill was passed the final reading-yeas 57, nays 26.

                                Mr. Prosser's concealed weapon's bill [63] was passed over.

                                Mr. Black's bill, to amend the statute, so as to authorize county
                                    recorders and county surveyors to issue fee bills for their
                                    predecessors, coming up-it was passed to the final reading-yeas
                                    81, nays 0.

                                On motion by Mr. VEATCH, Mr. Anderson's Dog bill [176] [50 cents
                                    tax and $1 on the second dog,] was then taken up.

                                Mr. POLK proposed to recommit with instructions to amend by
                                    striking out "50 cents," where it occurs, and insert " 10
                                    cents."

                                Mr. BUNDY proposed to add : " Provided that each head of a family
                                    may keep one dog which shall be exempt from license."

                                On motion by Mr. TURNER, the motion to recommit, with amendments,
                                    was laid on the table-yeas 52, nays 27.

                                Mr. ROBBINS, Mr. JENKINSON, Mr. KITCHEN and others considered
                                    that the bill would operate as a poll tax on nearly every family
                                    in the country.

                                Mr. CAMERON. The amendment would destroy the object of the bill,
                                    &c.

                                Mr. PARRETT demanded the previous question, and there was a
                                    second.

                                Mr. GRESHAM asked, but failed to obtain unanimous consent, to
                                    recommit the bill, with instructions to amend, by a clause
                                    turning the revenue derived from this tax into the military
                                    fund.

                                Mr. VEATCH (by way of reason for his vote) doubted whether this
                                    would meet the approbation of the people in every part of the
                                    State. He knew something was demanded on the subject. He had
                                    proposed a bill, not to tax dogs, but simply to turn loose the
                                    arm of society upon them to kill them-to allow every man to kill
                                    them whenever he finds them in his way. It also provides to pay
                                    three-fourths of the value of every sheep killed by dogs out of
                                    the County Treasury. He believed that a bill of that sort,
                                    without taxation, would cure this evil. The committee had
                                    thought proper to report another measure, which, whilst it did
                                    not meet his views, he should certainly vote for it.

                                Mr. KITCHEN gave for the reason of his vote, that the bill was
                                    not demanded, and would operate offensively in his region.

                                The yeas and nays were reported-yeas 43, nays 31: so the bill
                                    failed for want of a constitutional majority-51.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 26,1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. BEESON, the reading of the journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with.

                        Mr. CONNER had leave to record his vote on the passage of the fish bill
                            [S. 40] yesterday.

                        Mr. LOMAX presented two petitions, praying for an adjustment of national
                            difficulties on the basis of the Crittenden amendments. 

                        Mr. JOHNSON presented proceedings of a meeting in Clay county on the same
                            subject.

                        These three papers were referred to the Committee on Federal
                                Relations, under the rule. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES
                            Were made and concurred in, viz.:

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Judiciary- returning Senator
                                Stone's bill [207] regulating the fees of county treasurers; also,
                                Senator DeHart's bill [235] to prohibit clerks and deputies from
                                practising law, &c.; also, the bill [H. R. 8] providing for
                                allowance to clerks and sheriffs: recommending passage.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of House
                                bills 13, 42, 46, 52, 69, 81, 173, and 161.]

                             By Mr. MARCH: Judiciary-returning his bill [226],
                                district attorneys to administer oaths in certain cases recommending
                                passage.

                            By Mr. MILLER: Judiciary-returning the bill H.R.
                                39, described on page 223 and 224 of these Reports, and recommending
                                passage, with an amendment to section 11, providing "that nothing
                                herein contained shall be so construed as to affect any county now
                                fully organized under existing laws." 

                            Mr. SLACK moved to concur with an amendment, adding to the section :
                                "provided that nothing herein contained shall, in any wise, affect,
                                hinder, or interfere with any proceedings heretofore commenced for
                                the formation of a new county, or a change of county boundaries
                                under the law now in force relative thereto, but said proceedings
                                shall progress to a final termination, in the same manner as if this
                                act had not been passed."

                            On motion by Mr. HULL, this motion was laid on the table-yeas 34,
                                nays 8.

                            Mr. HULL demanded the previous question, and the demand was seconded
                                by 27 Senators.

                            The committee's report was concurred in.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER moved that the bill be considered as engrossed, and
                                read the third time now. [He also demanded the previous question,
                                but his demand was not heard by the Chair.]

                            Mr. ANTHONY. My opposition is not factious. Here is an attempt to
                                ride rough shod over the rights conferred upon parties by the
                                Legislature of the State of Indiana. He thought this motion
                                uncourteous, made in the absence of certain interested parties,
                                &c.

                            Mr. HULL. If the question had not been discussed heretofore in every
                                possible shape and light, I would have extended the courtesy; but as
                                I feel very much interested in the passage of this bill, I must press the
                                question, and therefore call for the previous question.

                            The demand was seconded by 26 Senators.

                            The motion was agreed to, and the bill was read the third time.

                            Mr. ANTHONY moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to amend
                                the committee's amendment, by adding: "or any proceedings where the
                                proposed new county to be formed under the nets heretofore in force,
                                will contain over one thousand voters, nine-tenths of whom favor
                                such new county."

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, the motion to recommit was laid on the
                                table-yeas 33, nays 11.

                            Mr. JOHNSON demanded the previous question, and the demand was
                                seconded by 26 Senators.

                            The bill was then finally passed, by yeas 37, nays 9.

                            
                                 By Mr. WOLFE: Judiciary-returning Senator
                                    Turner's bill 43-see pages 69, 176, and 185 of these
                                    Reports-recommending that it lie on the table, for the reason
                                    that the House bill just acted upon embraces its subject
                                    matter.

                                By Mr. COBB: Organization of Courts-His
                                    bill [118], 14th Judicial Circuit Courts-passage with
                                    amendments.

                                By Mr.MELLETT: Finance- Senator Lander's
                                    204-see page 244 of these Reports--indefinite postponement.
                                    Also, Senator Murray's 61-see page 88-refer to the
                                        Judiciary Committee with instructions to
                                    report a bill carrying out the object contemplated by a
                                    resolution relating to the salaries of public officers.

                                By Mr. BLAIR: Finance-Senator Conley's
                                    55-see pages 69 and 237 of these Reports-passage, with an
                                    amendment appropriating $30 to each member for stationery,
                                    newspapers, and postage.

                                By Mr. CONNER: Organization of
                                    Courts-Senator Mellett's bill [191] 16th Judicial
                                    Circuit Courts-passage.

                                By Mr. BEESON: Corporations-Senator
                                    O'Brien's [238] repealing laws for the incorporation of
                                    citiesfor the action of the Senate. Ordered engrossed.

                                By Mr. SHOULDERS : Corporations-Senator
                                    Newcomb's [231] to amend an act for the incorporation of
                                    cities--passage.

                            

                            Mr. JONES offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Judiciary be instructed to inquire,
                                            and report to the Senate at an early day: 1st. Whether
                                            the number of negroes and mulattoes in the several
                                            counties in this State are embraced in the census
                                            report, upon which an apportionment of Senators and
                                            Representatives is proposed to be made. 2d. Whether such
                                            apportionment, when made, if based on all the
                                            inhabitants of the State, negroes and mulattoes
                                            included, would be in conformity with the Constitution
                                            on the question of apportionment of Senators and
                                            Representatives. 3d. Whether this Legislature can, in
                                            conformity with sections 4 and 5, article 4, of the
                                            Constitution, apportion this State for Senatorial and
                                            Representative purposes during the present session of
                                            the Legislature.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent. 

                            By Mr. CRAVEN : Corporations-returning Senator
                                O'Brien's bill [50] amending the law for the incorporation of
                                cities-passage. Also his bill 48see pages 69, 238, and 251 of these
                                Reports-passage, with the amendment proposed by Mr. March, and
                                printed on page 251: and recommending that all other amendments lie
                                on the table.

                            By Mr. BEESON: Corporations-Senator Newcomb's
                                [145] incorporating companies for agricultural purposes-lie on the
                                table. 

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, the bill was referred to a Select
                                Committee, viz., Senators Newcomb, Craven, and Claypool.

                            By Mr. WHITE: Corporations-Senator Miller's
                                130-see page 184 of these Reports-lie on the table.

                            By Mr. WAGNER: Finance-his bill [2241 for the
                                investment of the sinking fund in State stocks-passage.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. This bill proposes to change the legislation of 1859,
                                which passed both branches of the General Assembly very numerously ;
                                and as far as I know, very acceptable to the people of the State. I
                                move to indefinitely postpone the bill.

                            Mr. WAGNER. I am not vain enough to suppose this bill will be passed.
                                It simply authorizes the Sinking Fund Commissioners to take the
                                sinking fund money as it comes into their hands, and buy up the
                                bonds of the State: to sink the sinking fund money as fast as it
                                comes in into the debt of the State of In. diana, so that the
                                interest we now pay in the city of New York, in London, and all over
                                the country, shall be paid into the sinking fund and go towards the
                                education of the children of the State. Instead of making each
                                county auditor's office a broker's office for the loaning of this
                                money, it simply proposes to fund it in the State debt.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. The point against this bill is, that it proposes to
                                invest the money of the Sinking Fund now drawing seven per cent., in
                                bonds that draw but two-and-half or five per cent., and it will be
                                nothing more nor less than simply destroying or dribbling away the
                                school fund.

                            Mr. WOLFE. This fund ought to be distributed to the counties for the
                                use of the children of the State : and the interest should accrue
                                yearly as nearly alike as possible. Any law that will tend to an
                                unequal distribution every year, is working injustice to the present
                                generation. I am opposed to the bill, and in favor of the motion to
                                indefinitely postpone it.

                            Mr. COBB. There can be no greater injury to this fund than that
                                contemplated by this bill. The object is to place the fund where the
                                people cannot reach it. I sincerely hope Senators will look to the
                                interest of this fund, and put their feet on such measures as
                                this.

                            Mr. SHIELDS. I shall oppose the indefinite postponement of this bill.
                                I cannot see why the interest would be less likely to be paid by the
                                State than by the borrowers in the several counties. It seems to me
                                there is nothing more sure than that the interest will be paid
                                punctually semi-annually, if this fund is invested in State stocks.
                                I have believed so for many years, and I hope gentlemen will let
                                this measure come up fairly.

                            Mr. ROBINSON. I do hope this bill will be indefinitely postponed. I
                                voted a few days ago to loan $75,000 from this fund; I did it with
                                the greatest reluctance, and because of the necessity of the case;
                                but any measure calculated to swallow up the school fund of the
                                State of Indiana, by investing it in five per cent, or
                                two-and-a-half per cent, bonds, I  shall oppose; regarding it as an
                                abandonment of the common school system.

                            Mr. WAGNER urged the passage of his bill, and regarded the objections
                                named as entirely futile. The bill will eventually do away, not only
                                with the Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners, but will abolish the
                                office of State Agent, &c. 

                            Mr. CONLEY demanded the previous question, and the demand was
                                seconded by 26 Senators.

                            The motion to indefinitely postpone was agreed to by yeas 30, nays
                                14.

                            By Mr. WAGNER : Finance-returning Senator
                                Newcomb's bill 115-on pages 163 and 158 of these
                                Reports-recommending passage,with amendments

                            [Mr. DEHART presented a petition from 45 citizens of Carroll county,
                                praying for the establishment of additional branches of the Bank of
                                the State of Indiana, which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Banks.]

                            [Mr. NEWCOMB presented a petition from members of the Bar, praying
                                for the passage of a law giving to attorneys a lien upon all
                                judgements, &c., for their reasonable fees; which was referred
                                to a select committee of three, viz.: Senators Newcomb and
                                others.]

                            Mr. RAY, by leave, introduced a bill [247] creating the 22d District
                                Court of Common pleas, which was passed to the second reading. 

                            By Mr. TARKINGTON; from a select committee-returning his bill [100]
                                to create the 14th Judicial Circuit-recommending passage with
                                amendments.

                            By Mr. MILLER: Judiciary-his bill 237, see page of
                                these Reports-passage.

                            By Mr. ROBINSON: Claims-the petition of Anderson
                                W. Davis-lie on the table.

                            By Mr. CULVER: County and Township
                                Business-Senator Stone's 194-see page 237-passage.

                            By Mr. DeHART: Printing-returning a resolution of
                                inquiry as to whether the State Printer should not furnish paper.
                                &c., and reporting in accordance therewith a bill [248] to amend
                                sections 3 and 4 of an act fixing the time and mode of electing a
                                State Printer, &c., approved March -, 1859; which was passed the
                                first reading.

                            By. Mr. CULVER: Printing-returning a resolution of
                                inquiry about the abolishing of the office of State Printer, and
                                letting the public printing out to the lowest bidder, with an
                                adverse report thereon; which, on motion by Mr. WOLFE, was laid on
                                the table till he could find time to draw up a minority report.

                            By Mr. LINE: Select Committee-returning a select committee's bill
                                [210] giving aid to the Indiana Historical Society-passage, with an
                                amendment appropriating $500.

                            By Mr. BEARSS: Select Committee-returning a petition of citizens of
                                Miami, asking amendments to the law licensing concerts, and
                                reporting in accordance therewith a bill [249] to amend section 1 of
                                "an act to amend the first section of an act entitled 'An act
                                concerning licenses to vend foreign merchandize,' &c., approved
                                June 15, 1852, and for the encouragement of Agriculture," &c.,
                                approved March 7, 1857; which was passed to the first reading.

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The PRESIDENT announced the special order for this hour to be the
                                consideration of the minority report of the Committee on
                                    Federal Relations, identical with the joint resolution
                                S. 4-see pages 44 and 45 of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE
                                    REPORTS.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to amend by striking out and inserting:

                            Resolved by the Senate and House of
                                Representatives, That our commissioners at the peace, congress
                                now in session be and they are hereby instructed to vote for what is
                                known as the Crittenden plan for adjusting our difficulties with the
                                South, or some other equally fair and honorable plan of
                                adjustment.

                            On motion by Mr. LINE-yeas 27, nays 15-the report and amendment was
                                made the order for next Tuesday at half-past seven o'clock p. m.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Finance,
                                returned Senator Newcomb's bill [114] for the relief of trust fund
                                borrowers, with amendments recommending passage.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. CONNER, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, returned Mr. Claypool's bill [212]16th
                                Judicial Circuit Courts, recommending passage.

                            The report was concurred in. 


                            
                                THE COMMON SCHOOL FUND.
                                The PRESIDENT announced the consideration of the special order
                                    for 10 o'clock this morning, which was passed over informally;
                                    being the Committee on Education's bill S.
                                    217-described on page 249 of these Reports-with the report of
                                    the Committee of the Whole (of Saturday
                                    afternoon) thereon.

                                Mr. STUDABAKER demanded a division of the question.

                                All the committee amendments were then severally concurred in, by
                                    consent, except the amendment which proposes to strike out of
                                    the bill all that requires the trustee to employ teachers.

                                Mr. MURRAY. I do hope if there is a head to this school system,
                                    that he will have the full control of hiring teachers, for in
                                    nine cases out of ten, the trustee is more competent than the
                                    Directors. A great difficulty has grown up just on this point.
                                    This duty can't be performed if this amendment prevails.

                                Mr. STUDABAKER. I hope the amendment will not be adopted.

                                Mr. JOHNSON. I think I see a great deal of injustice in requiring
                                    the township trustee to hire all the teachers. Let every
                                    district select its own teacher; it is right they should have
                                    the privilege of doing it. I am in favor of the amendment. 

                                

                                Mr. CONNER. Each district is qualified to employ its own
                                    teacher.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON. I think this amendment conflicts with the bill
                                    all the way through, and for that reason it ought not to be
                                    amended in that particular.

                                Mr. MILLER. This is, perhaps, the most important question in this
                                    bill. It seems to me if the amendment prevails, it will destroy
                                    uniformity in the system.

                                Mr. CARNAHAN. I never will vote for any system that has a
                                    consolidation of the funds in it; but when we can confine the
                                    funds to the counties in which it is raised, then I am as much
                                    in favor of a free school system as any man.

                                Mr. WAGNER sustained the amendment.

                                The amendment was rejected by-yeas 20,nays 22-as follows:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                YEAS-Messrs. Berry, Carnahan,
                                                Claypool, Cobb, Conley, Conner, DeHart, Johnson,
                                                Jones, Lomax, Odell, Ray, Robinson, Shields, Steele,
                                                Turner, Wagner, White, Williams, and Wilson-20.

                                            NAYS-Messrs. Beeson, Blair, Craven
                                                of Madison, Culver, Dickinson, Ferguson, Grubb,
                                                Hamilton, Hull, Landers, Line, March, Mellett,
                                                Miller, Murray, Shoemaker, Shoulders, Stone,
                                                Studabaker, Tarkington, Teegarden, and Wolfe-22.
                                        
                                    
                                

                                The Committee report was concurred in.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to amend the first section by adding : "
                                    provided that the funds so raised shall be retained and expended
                                    in the counties where the same are raised.

                                Mr. C. made a short speech in support of his amendment.

                                Mr. CRAVEN and Mr. STUDABAKER opposed the amendment.

                                Mr. WOLFE interposed a constitutional objection.

                                The amendment was rejected by-yeas 19, nays 21.

                                Mr. WOLFE moved to recommit the bill with a series of
                                    instructions.

                                On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the motion to recommit was laid on the
                                    table.

                                Mr. CRAVEN moved to amend by adding to the 14th section a clause
                                    making it lawful for the trustee to locate and build school
                                    houses, &c.

                                The amendment was adopted.

                                Mr. MILLER offered an amendment to section 23, which was adopted,
                                    providing that "the director so elected shall, within ten days,
                                    be notified of his election ;'7 making provision for filling
                                    vacancies by appointment, &c.

                                Mr. LINE moved to amend section 27 by adding the words, "or the
                                    sale of any old school-house or grounds belonging thereto."

                                The amendment was adopted.

                                On motion by Mr. MILLER, section 12 was amended so that any legal
                                    voter may be attached to a school district, on application
                                    before the closing of the enumeration.

                                Mr. LANDERS moved to reconsider the vote by which the Senate
                                    refused to recommit the bill.

                                On motion by Mr. LINE, this motion was laid on the table.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON moved to recommit bill with instructions, which he
                                    would to writing.

                                Mr. MURRAY submitted instructions to amend section 26, to-wit,
                                    "provided it shall not be obligatory upon trustees to build
                                    remove, or repair school houses according to a vote of the
                                    district, if in his judgment the cost of such building or
                                    repairs shall exceed in amount what is absolutely necessary for
                                    the purposes contemplated by such vote."

                                Mr. WOLFE submitted his series of instructions to amend referred
                                    to above.

                                Mr. STUDABAKER submitted instructions to amend section 78, so
                                    that school monies shall be loaned at "seven" per cent, instead
                                    of "ten" as the bill provides.

                                The PRESIDENT announced as members of the Joint Committee upon
                                    the subject of providing means to liquidate the State debt, on
                                    the part of the Senate-Messrs. Lomax, Claypool, and DeHart. He
                                    also announced as members of the Joint Committee upon the
                                    subject of Congressional apportionment, on the part of the
                                    Senate-Messrs. Mellett, Wagner Bearss, Wolfe, and
                                    Studabaker.

                                Mr. CARNAHAN made an ineffectual motion to take up his
                                    resolution, offered yesterday, changing the session hours.

                                And then the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            TUESDAY, February 26,1861.
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.

                             Mr. BUNDY presented the memorial of L. B. Stout and others,
                                ministers of the gospel, of the State of Indiana, asking for a
                                change of from one to three miles in the distance of huckster stands
                                from religious meetings, in the act of March, 1859; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges.

                            Mr. BRANHAM presented two memorials for claims; which were referred
                                to the Committee on Claims.

                            Mr. DAVIS presented the petition of Wallace Davis and 200 others,
                                citizens of Scott county, without respect to party, memorializing
                                for legislative instructions to the Peace Congress, and our Senators
                                and Representatives in the Congress of the United States, to
                                compromize on the basis of the Crittenden propositions, or upon some
                                other basis equally fair and honorable.

                            Mr. HAYES presented the petition of sundry citizens of Madison
                                county, for the same object.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG presented the petition of sundry citizens of Floyd
                                county, for the same object.

                            Mr. BRETT presented two petitions, one signed by 1,000 legal voters
                                of Daviess county, and the other signed by 84 citizens of said
                                county, for the same object; and he stated his information that
                                there are not one hundred men in Daviess county who would not have
                                     signed it if there had
                                been time to circulate it.

                            These petitions were severally referred to the Committee of
                                    Thirteen.

                            [A message from the Senate reported the action of that body on sundry
                                bills.]

                            Mr. HEFFREN presented the claim of Mr. Carter, which was referred to
                                the Committee On Claims. 

                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.

                            Mr. HEFFREN returned Mr. Knowlton's bill [208,] to amend section 26
                                of the railroad act of May 11, 1852, recommending its passage.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned the Ways and Means Committee's
                                bill [237,] to provide for paying Over the proceeds of estates
                                without heirs, to the commissioners of the sinking fund;
                                recommending passage.

                            Mr. GRESHAM returned Mr. Grover's bill ("207,] to amend section 156
                                of the practice act; recommending passage.

                            These bills were severally ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned Mr. Hurd's bill [203,] for the registration of
                                births, marriages and deaths, with the opinion that legislation
                                thereon is inexpedient.

                            Mr. JENKINSON returned Mr. Smith of Bartholomew's bill [258,]
                                providing for the service of writs against sheriffs, &c., with a
                                recommendation that it be laid on the table ; which reports were
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. GRESHAM returned the Senate bill [5,] with amendments striking
                                out the title, and inserting: An act to amend the first section of
                                the practice act, and to provide that county auditors and treasurers
                                shall be competent witnesses in suits now pending relative to the
                                surplus revenue and the school and trust funds, under the act of
                                Feb. 27, 755; and then striking out all after the enacting clause,
                                and inserting new matter, [amendatory of the 38th section of the
                                practice act, with reference to &c.]

                            Mr. GRESHAM. It provides that where a claim is assigned, and suit is
                                brought, and the assignor is introduced as a witness, that then the
                                adverse party may offer himself as a witness. This same section was
                                amended in 1855, and it became necessary to recite that , amendment
                                in the bill; hence the amendment to the Senate bill.

                            The amendment was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. CASON returned Mr. Roberts's bill [206,] supplemental to article
                                9 of the practice act, to provide for the hearing of witnesses in
                                attachment, &c., with a recommendation that it be laid on the
                                table; which was concurred in.

                            Mr. WOODHULL returned Mr. Veatch's bill [227,] supplemental to the
                                pratice act, recommending its passage. 

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed. 

                            Mr. HEFFREN returned the bill to amend section 238 of the practice
                                act, so as to admit parties in civil actions to testify on their own
                                behalf, with certain restrictions ; recommending its indefinite
                                postponement.

                            Mr. WOODHULL returned Mr. Hurd's bill [214,] to regulate marriages,
                                &c., recommending that it be laid on the table.

                            Mr. BINGHAM returned Mr. Campbell's bill [210,] to abolish the death
                                penalty; recommending that it be laid on the table.

                            Which reports were severally concurred in.

                            He also returned the resolution instructing the Judiciary
                                    Committee to inquire into the constitutionality of
                                taxing banks on their capital stock, and reported a bill [317,]
                                regulating the assessment and collection of taxes on the capital
                                stock of the Bank of the State and branches, and the stock banks;
                                which was passed to the second reading.

                            Mr. GRESHAM returned Mr. Bryant's bill [291,] supplemental to and to
                                amend the first section of the act to enable trustees to receive
                                lands and donate and convey the same for the benefit of schools,
                                churches, Masonic and Odd Fellows lodges, &c., and for the
                                construction of churches, school houses, &c., approved June 15,
                                '52; recommending its passage.

                            Mr. VEATCH returned Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bill [256,] to
                                authorize the judges of the circuit and common pleas courts to hear
                                and determine all demurrers, motions and applications for the
                                production of books or papers, and for the appointment of receivers,
                                in vacation; recommending its passage.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. VEATCH returned Mr. Hopkins' bill [280] to repeal the act for
                                voluntary assignments, recommending indefinite postponement; which
                                was concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            THE MILITIA.

                            Mr. GRESHAM, from the Committee on Military
                                    affairs, returned his bill [105] for the
                                reorganization of the militia, and to provide for a military fund,
                                with an amendment, striking out all after the enacting clause and
                                inserting new matter; and, on his motion, it was ordered to be laid
                                on the table and printed. 

                        
                        

                        
                            PUBLIC PRINTING.

                            The House now proceeded to the consideration of the special order,
                                viz.: Mr. Heffren's bill [17] to give the public printing to the
                                lowest responsible bidder, and to abolish the office of Public
                                Printer; and his joint resolution to give the public printing to
                                Thomas A. Goodwin, at 25 per cent below the present legal rates.

                            Mr. FRASIER moved that the bill be indefinitely postponed.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question.

                            Mr. HEFFREN demanded the yeas and nays; and there was a second-yeas
                                46, nays 42:

                            So the main question was ordered.

                            Mr. HEFFREN asked, pro forma, to be excused from
                                voting, to enable him to say: This is the first time in my
                                experience in legislation when
                                the friends of a measure have been cut off by the gag from making
                                their amendments to perfect it. We are ready with our amendments.
                                This is not a party measure. Four years ago we voted for it, when
                                the Democrats were in the majority. And we have a memorial on our
                                tables, by a man not of the Democratic party, offering to do the
                                public printing at 25 per cent, below the prices established by law.
                                If this bill is indefinitely postponed that is an end of it so far
                                as this session is concerned. What then will the people say of a
                                Legislature that will go on paying $5,000 to $10,000 more than the
                                public printing is offered to be done for by a practical man?

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew (pro forma.) This is not
                                a party measure with me; but I am free to admit that I have some
                                prejudice against the gentleman proposing to do this printing. If I
                                dare vote against public economy, I could do so most willingly in
                                this case; for I do not believe this man ought to have anything at
                                the hands of either party.

                            Mr. FRASIER-pro forma. I shall vote for
                                postponement, because there has been a Select Committee appointed of
                                practical printers, to report a bill cutting down the rates to the
                                lowest living point, and on that bill gentlemen will have an
                                opportunity to vote for retrenchment and reform in this matter, if
                                they wish.

                            Mr. STOTSEN BERG-pro forma. The very day the
                                Republican majority here proposed to elect a State Printer, I
                                offered a resolution to postpone it till we could mature this bill:
                                and I referred to the gross frauds connected with the public
                                printing which ought to be corrected, and which were pointed out in
                                his paper by the very man whom they were desirous of electing. I did
                                this because I knew that, after he was elected, the majority would
                                never give up the spoils. Now they have got their printer, they are
                                not going to give him up. But the people will remember the matter.
                                ("Consart.") I call for the reading of the bill.

                            The bill was read by the Clerk.

                            Mr. SHERMAN-pro forma. I vote for indefinite
                                postponement upon principle-upon the belief, that to the victors
                                belong the spoils. Two years ago, when the gentleman came here to
                                abolish this office, after the election of John C. Walker, I then
                                voted against it; and I shall vote against it now, more especially,
                                because the printer we have elected is under a written pledge to
                                submit to any restrictions which his friends may prescribe. I voted
                                against abolishing this office two years ago, believing that the
                                time was not far distant when we would have control of it; and now
                                we have got it, it seems to me to come with a very bad grace from
                                that side, the moment it falls into our hands, to ask us to abolish
                                it. I distinctly say to the House, that if I believed that the
                                abolishing of this office would result in saving $10,000 to the
                                State, I would not do it. It belongs to the Republican party.

                            Mr. JENKINSON-pro forma. I don't care who does this
                                work, but the question is, who does it cheapest and best. The
                                sentiment of the gentleman from Laporte is wrong. I hope the day
                                will come when that sentiment will be abolished. I will vote for
                                anything here that will lighten the burdens of taxation. I am
                                willing the Republicans shall have the offices. My object is
                                economy. 

                            Mr. PACKARD-pro forma. I am a member of the
                                    Committee on Printing; and if report is
                                expected from that Committee it is a very poor source of
                                expectation.

                            Mr. GRESHAM-pro forma. At an early day of the
                                session I introduced a resolution for inquiring into the abuses of
                                the office of the public printer. I have been unfaltering in my
                                course. I have been from the first in favor of abolishing this
                                office, but the House have all the time refused to let our committee
                                have this bill, knowing that we would have reported it back and
                                recommended its passage. When the gentleman from Laporte comes in
                                here and endorses the sentiment, that to the victors belong the
                                spoils, he endorses a doctrine that I can not. It is preposterous.
                                When it comes to that, sir, your government will be rottenness, and
                                there will be no more hope for the patriot. This printing business
                                is purely mechanical, and there is no reason why we should make a
                                State officer to do the public printing.

                            Mr. CASON-pro forma. I have always been an advocate
                                of reform in all our State matters. I understand that this bill has
                                been introduced for the purpose of placing the printing of the State
                                in such a position, that men who have peculated upon the State, and
                                run off with their gains, may have the privilege of entering into
                                competition with other men for the purpose of continuing their
                                peculations. For these reasons I shall vote for the postponement. He
                                withdrew his application to be excused.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. Two years ago I voted against abolishing the office of
                                State printer, because there was no provision of law authorizing its
                                abolishment. Now there is a condition that the Legislature may
                                abolish it, which presents a widely different case.

                            Mr. CRAIN-pro forma. I believe that the letting out
                                this printing will cost a great deal more in the result than the
                                present arrangement. I have not the slightest doubt it. He withdrew
                                his motion to be excused.

                            Mr. FISHER. In all my life, which has not been a short one, I have
                                been much engaged in superintending public work; and my experience
                                is, that, unless you can have some person to superintend the
                                movement of the work under a contract, the State will be the loser
                                from beginning to end.

                            Mr. ROBBINS. Democrats here have not been opposed to this measure in
                                years gone by. I recollect a bill passed the Senate four, years ago,
                                to abolish this office. I think we might as well have a stone mason
                                for the State, as 


                        
                        

                    
                    
                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, MARCH 4, 1861
                        No. 19
                    

                    
                        

                        

                            State printer. I can not see how gentlemen, coming here under
                                professions and pledges to practice economy, can vote against this
                                bill.

                            Mr. McLEAN. I shall explain my vote before my constituents.

                            Mr. DAVIS-pro forma. I have no friends to reward or
                                punish. I am in favor of the bill if we can save money to the
                                State.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew asked to be excused from voting. He could
                                not decide between the bill and the plan proposed by the chairman of
                                the special committee, which was to reduce the price of the public
                                printing, under the advice of journeymen.

                            Mr. ROBERTS-pro forma-bore an earnest testimony
                                against the gag.

                            Mr. BUNDY asked to be excused, in good faith. If to the victors
                                belonged the spoils-

                            The SPEAKER here arrested the debate under plea of brief
                                statements.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. I vote aye on principle; not the spoils principle.

                            The vote was reported-yeas 44, nays 57 as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Bingham, Boydston,
                                            Branham, Bryan, Bundy, Burgess, Cameron, Campbell,
                                            Cason, Collins of Whitley, Grain, Dashiel, Epperson,
                                            Erwin, Feagler, Ferguson. Fisher, Fordyce, Fraley
                                            Frazier, Gore, Grover, Hall, Haworth, Henricks, Hopkins,
                                            Kurd, Jones of Tippecanoe, Jones of Vermillion, Jones of
                                            Wayne, Kendrick, Lane, Lee, Lightner, Moody, Nebeker,
                                            Newman, Orr, Randall, Sherman, Sloan, Smith of Miami,
                                            Thomas, Thompson, Turner, Underwood, Wells, Williams,
                                            Woodhull, and Mr. Speaker-49.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Atkinson, Black, Brett,
                                            Collins of Adams, Combs, Cooprider, Davis, Dobbins,
                                            Edson, Fleming, Ford, Gifford, Gresham, Hayes, Heffren,
                                            Horton, Howard, Jenkinson, Kitchen, McClurg, McLean,
                                            Moss, Mutz, Owens, Packard, Parrett, Pitts, Polk,
                                            Prosser, Prow, Robbins, Roberts, Stevenson, Stotsenberg,
                                            Trier, Warrum and Woods,-37.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            So the bill was indefinitely postponed.

                            The SPEAKER announced the next question in the special order to be on
                                the adoption of Mr. Heffren's joint resolution, to give the printing
                                to Thomos A. Goodwin.

                            Mr. CAMERON moved to lay it on the table.

                            Mr. HEFFREN demanded the yeas and nays, and they were ordered.

                            Mr. PROSSER (by unanimous consent) gave his reason for voting against
                                this resolution. It was in his objections to Mr. Goodwin as a public
                                man.

                            The joint resolution was laid on the table yeas 53, nays 35.

                            On motion by Mr. CAMERON, his apportionment bill [285] was taken up
                                and referred to the Joint Select Committee on
                                    Apportionment. 

                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. Heffren's bill 302, with amendments by Mr. Jones, of Tippecanoe,
                                and Mr. Underwood; Mr. Black's bill 303, Mr. Veatch's 304, Mr.
                                Heffren's 308, 308, 313; were severally considered on the second
                                reading and referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.

                            Mr. Cameron's 305 was referred to the Committee on
                                    Claims.

                            Mr. Ragan's 306-Temperance.

                            Mr. Heffren's 307, Mr. Packard's 312, Mr. Craven's
                                    314-County and Township Business.

                            Mr. Cameron's 310 was laid on the table.

                            Mr. Henrick's 312-Banks. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AMENDMENTS TO THE LIQUOR LAW.

                            Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bill [315] to amend sections 3, 4, 5, 9, 11
                                of the liquor law, coming up-

                            Messrs. HEFFREN, HAWORTH, UNDERWOOD and ANDERSON proposed amendments,
                                which were laid on the table.

                            Mr. GIFFORD proposed to amend the law by reducing the license fee
                                from $50 to $25. My constituents, he said, are opposed to the
                                present fee for license. Franklin county pays about a thousand
                                dollars into the school fund from this source, and gets not a cent
                                back. There are other counties drinking as much whisky as Franklin,
                                utterly refusing to grant or pay any license at all. We want those
                                counties to come in and drink less than a quart. [Laughter.]

                            The amendment was laid on the table-yeas 66, nays 22.

                            Mr. STOTSENBRGERG proposed "knowingly" after the "shall," but it was
                                rejected.

                            The yeas and nays being demanded and ordered on the engrossment of
                                the bill-

                            Mr. BUNDY asked to be excused for not voting, saying, for reason,
                                That he was opposed to the whole license system. It was a cheat and
                                a delusion. You can't license a man to do wrong.

                            Mr. PROSSER, Mr. EDSON, and Mr. STOTSENBERG (pro forma) stated
                                general opposition to the amendments of the liquor law in the bill.
                                The law had worked well for a liquor law, and was sustained by the
                                Supreme Court, though it might
                                be amended, if the Constitution were not in the way.

                            Mr. RAGAN-pro forma. The license system is all
                                wrong. I believe it's a curse to our school fund, to have the price
                                of blood which it furnishes mingled with it. When we authorize
                                licenses we become responsible for the consequences of the sale of
                                liquor. I want the venders to sell on their own responsibility.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed, by yeas 44, nays 42.

                            Mr. Newman's bill [316], with Mr. Frasier's amendment, was referred
                                to the Committee on the Judiciary. 

                        
                        

                        
                            WM. F. BAGGETT.

                            The SPEAKER said the writ had been served on Mr. Baggett, and he was
                                now here in the custody of the Sergeant-at-Arms.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. He should file his affidavit of the facts, and purge
                                himself of contempt of the House.

                            Subsequently, Mr. Baggett appeared, by Mr. Heffren, and filed his
                                affidavit with the Clerk, That his non-appearance before the
                                    Prison Committee last Friday was on account
                                of the sickness of his wife; that he came to the city as soon as he
                                could safely leave his family.

                            He was thereupon discharged from custody.

                            On motion of Mr. VEATCH, the Dog bill, [176] was taken up and
                                referred again to the Agricultural Committee with
                                Mr. Jenkinson's amendment. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            New bills were introduced in order, and passed to the second reading,
                                viz.:

                            Mr. Heffren; [318] To amend section 447 of the Practice act.

                            Mr. Packard: [319] To regulate the business of Insurance Companies to
                                be organized in the State of Indiana after the passage of this
                                act.

                            Mr. Campbell: [320;] Providing for the better organization of the
                                Indiana University, and the management, of its affairs.

                            Mr. BUNDY: [321] To compel road companies, which have heretofore, or
                                which may hereafter, construct their roads through the streets of
                                towns, to gravel said streets.

                            Mr. Crain: [322] To repeal section 38 of the act of May 11, 1852,
                                providing for the incorporation of railroad companies.

                            Mr. Wilson: [323] To amend sec. 12 of the common school law of June
                                14. '52. 



                            
                                JOINT SELECT COMMITTEE ON APPORTIONMENT.

                                The SPEAKER now announced this Committee, one from each
                                    Congressional District, viz:

                                On the part of the House-Messrs. Branham, Stevenson, Crain,
                                    Feagler, Brett, and Grover.

                                On the part of the Senate-Messrs. Mellett, Wagner, Bearss, Wolfe,
                                    and Studabaker. 

                            
                            

                            
                                FIVE ADDITIONAL BANK DISTRICTS.

                                The SPEAKER announced the further special order for this day, viz
                                    : Mr. Veatch's bill [62,] for five additional branches of the
                                    Bank of the State of Indiana-the question being on Mr. Heffren's
                                    amendment, adding a second section, requiring the consent of the
                                    Bank to regulate the subscriptions for stock in said branches
                                    books to be opened for six consecutive days, &c.

                                Mr. HEFFREN. showed from his observation as chairman of the Bank
                                    Fund Investigating Committee of 1857, that the gravest charge
                                    against the administration of the bank was in the favoritism
                                    that obtained in subscribing stock. He wanted the people to have
                                    a chance to subscribe stock as well as bank men and peedy
                                    politicians.

                                Mr. VEATCH. The very provision the gentleman was asking for was
                                    in the charter. The bank had control of the subscription; and
                                    honesty was conceded to the present directors.

                                 Mr. FISHER. The amendment contemplates an amendment of the bank
                                    charter, requiring the assent of all the branches. The amendment
                                    is desirable, but it can not be assented to. The bill was asking
                                    the bank to give the people what they want. With one exception,
                                    every bank man he had seen was opposed to the bill. More
                                    partners were to be imposed by the bill, and it would throw
                                    additional responsibility upon the bank.

                                Mr. HEFFREN. Who is to take the stock?

                                Mr. FISHER understood the stock was already taken, and it would
                                    be sold out, he supposed, to those having money to invest. He
                                    yielded to none in his detestation of the means resorted to, to
                                    obtain the charter, but the institution had passed into the
                                    hands of honest men. A desirable proposition should not be
                                    defeated because of the manner of taking the bank stock years
                                    ago. The security of the note-holder was good now-equal to the
                                    best. It was in the honesty of the management of the bank, and
                                    the liberality of its charter.

                                Mr. PROSSER believed the bank desired this bill. They came up two
                                    years ago with arguments and money to buy through the
                                    Legislature a bill similar to this. This variation was an
                                    electioneering tack. He spoke at length. He was for the
                                    amendment, but with or without the amendment, he should vote
                                    against the bill.

                                Mr. PACKARD considered that no bill of the session had received
                                    so large a share of attention outside. Bank men in his region
                                    were for it. He concurred in the objections taken by Mr.
                                    Prosser, and replied to Mr. Fisher.

                                Mr. CRAIN. The sole object of legislation should be to benefit
                                    the people. Did not the people seek after the money of the Bank
                                    of the State more than the bills of the stock banks? That
                                    answered the question which institution ought to be chartered,
                                    for the benefit of the people. The stock was all taken: and for
                                    this reason the amendment could avail nothing. He spoke at length; not,
                                    however, as a special friend of the Bank of the State.

                                Mr. JENKINSON. The legitimate business of banking was to afford
                                    facilities for the shipments of produce. That was what made the
                                    enterprise of Fort Wayne, and made it the best spot in the
                                    State. [Laughter, and "no consent."] A bank so administered was
                                    a benefit to the people. It enabled the Fort Wayne merchants to
                                    pay the highest price for produce 10 cents higher for wheat than
                                    any other market in the State.

                                Mr. VEATCH replied to the objections urged against the bill.
                                    Everything that is valuable in the amendment is embraced in
                                    ban'k charter (the 79th section), which he read.

                                Mr. HEFFREN insisted that there was no sufficient guard. The
                                    books could be opened "any time" between 9 and 12 o'clock.

                                Mr. VEATCH proceeded at length to show that an increase of
                                    partners was an increase of the security and means of stability
                                    of the institution. Each stockholder was responsible not only
                                    for the amount of stock subscribed, but for an equal amount
                                    individually. He also spoke at length.

                                Mr. EDSON. The object of the bill being not to increase but
                                    transfer the Bank stock, the effect of its passage would be to
                                    authorize the bank to sell out stock and locations of branches
                                    to the highest bidder. He spoke at length against the bill.

                                Mr. McLEAN raised a point of order against the latitude taken in
                                    the debate.

                                The SPEAKER, however, ruled that the amendment was not germain to
                                    the bill.

                                Mr. HEFFREN withdrew the motion to recommit, &c.

                                Mr. KNOWLTON moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to
                                    amend, so as to require the branches already organized to
                                    furnish the required supply of stock for the new branches
                                    without premium to stock subscribers, and that such branch
                                    furnish its pro rata share of such stock.

                                Mr. KNOWLTON spoke generally against the bill. The benefits of
                                    these new locations were to be enjoyed by those branches having
                                    more stock than they can use profitably, who would sell to new
                                    subscribers at 20 to 25 per cent, premium, &c.

                                On motion of Mr. CAMERON, the motion and proposed amendment were
                                    laid on the table-yeas 57, nays 39.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to recommit, with instructions to amend to
                                    require the consent of the Bank of the State to create and
                                    establish a branch in every county in the State where a branch
                                    is not now established.

                                The SPEAKER ruled the amendment out of order.

                                Mr. FRASIER demanded the previous question ; and there was a
                                    second.

                                Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, (by unanimous consent,) gave the
                                    reasons why he should now change his intention and vote for the
                                    bill.

                                It was under instructions from his constituents, wanting to
                                    invest in bank stock.

                                The bill was then passed the final reading in the House-yeas 55,
                                    nays 39.

                                The House adjourned. 

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, February 27,1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the reading of yesterday's journal was dispensed
                            with. 

                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.

                            
                                By Mr. BERRY: which was referred to the Committee on
                                        Corporations, without reading.

                                By Mr. MURRAY: asking protection against sheep killing
                                    dogs-referred to the Agricultural
                                    Committee.

                                By Mr. CRAVEN: four petitions (two of which are signed by
                                    ladies only,) praying for a Legislative act appropriating money
                                    in aid of the suffering in Kansas; which were referred to the
                                        Finance Committee, without
                                    reading.

                                By Mr. CONLEY: from Greene county, in favor of the adjustment
                                    of our national difficulties upon the basis of the Crittenden
                                    proposition, or something similar : Also by Mr. LANDERS, from
                                    240 men of all parties : Also by Mr.SHOEMAKER, from 82 persons,
                                    70 of whom are Republicans-referred to the Committee on
                                        Federal relations, under the rule. 
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES

                            Were made and concurred in as follows ( unless otherwise stated):

                            
                                By Mr. MARCH: Judiciary-returning his
                                    embezzlement bill [1], amended according to instructions adopted
                                    yesterday-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. ANTHONY : State Prison-returning his
                                    bill [222] to provide for the government of the State
                                    Prisons-recommending passage with amendments.
                            



                            Mr. LINE moved to concur in the Committee's report, by inserting in
                                the proper place : "elect three directors, one of which shall act as
                                president, who shall serve two, four, and six years, from and after
                                April 1, 1861, their respective term of office to be decided by
                                lot."

                            Mr. ANTHONY did not think the number large enough. The bill provides
                                for five directors-two for the northern, and two for the southern
                                prison, and one president for the board.

                            [Leave of absence was obtained for Mr. Campbell on account of
                                sickness.]

                            Mr. HAMILTON. I think this bill is premature, until we learn what the
                                action of the State Prison Investigating
                                    Committee will be.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. It seems to be imperatively demanded that some
                                legislation should be had on this subject. If we wait for the
                                committee's report, we can take no action on this bill the present
                                session; but that investigation can have nothing to do with this
                                matter: it is outside of this subject.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I am opposed to this bill in the main. I cannot see
                                the utility of it; and can see no other object in it than to turn
                                those men out of office who were elected two years ago to serve four
                                years. I move to lay the bill and pending amendments on the
                                table.

                            This motion was rejected, by yeas 18. nays 22.

                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to postpone the subject till Saturday. 

                            

                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, this motion was laid on the
                                table-affirmative 22, negative 16.

                            Mr. ANTHONY made an ineffectual motion-yeas 18, nays 21-to lay the
                                amendment to the committee's report on the table.

                            Mr. ANTHONY moved to make this subject the special order for two
                                o'clock.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend this motion by recommitting the bill,
                                with instructions to strike out "five" directors, and insert
                                "three."

                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, this amendment was laid on the table-yeas
                                22, nays 20.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend by recommitting, with instructions to
                                amend the bill, so that the present directors of the Jeffersonville
                                prison shall be retained in office for the term for which they were
                                elected.

                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY-yeas 23, nays 18-this motion was laid on the
                                table.

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, this subject was made the special order
                                for to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock.

                            
                                By Mr. SHIELDS: Swamp Lands-returning his
                                    bill 87-see page 105-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. CONNER: Corporations-returning
                                    Senator Teagarden's bill 120-see page 163-recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. NEWCOMB: Select Committee-reporting, in accordance with
                                    petitions, a bill [250] authorizing liens in favor of attorneys
                                    and counsellors at law in certain cases; which passed the first
                                    reading.
                            


                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced and passed the first reading
                                :

                            By Mr. MARCH: [251] to ascertain the amount of fees and salaries of
                                the clerk of the Supreme, Circuit, and Common Pleas Courts of this
                                State ; the sheriff of the Supreme Court, and of the several
                                counties ; county auditors, treasurers, and recorders ; and to
                                provide penalties for the violation of these provisions.

                            By Mr. CONNER: [552] to authorize the construction of levees and
                                drains, and the improvement of any river, creek, or other water
                                course.

                            By Mr. CONLEY: [253] To provide a more just and humane system of
                                medical attendance for paupers in townships and county asylums and
                                county jails, and repealing all laws or parts of laws in conflict
                                therewith.

                            By Mr. WOLFE: [254] To provide for taking the enumeration of white
                                male inhabitants of the State over the age of 21 years, and defining
                                the duties of certain officers in relation thereto.

                            By Mr. COBB: [255] The same as his bill S. 3-see pages 13 and 252 of
                                these Reports. He made an ineffectual motion-yeas 28, nays 15-to
                                suspend the rules that the bill might be read a second time now.

                            By Mr. JONES: [256] To provide for confession of judgements in
                                certain cases upon certain conditions therein named, and to enable
                                parties in civil suits in the courts of this State to have judgment
                                without filing a declaration other than the instrument upon which
                                judgment is asked.

                            By Mr. COBB: [257] To amend section 2 of an act to provide a treasury
                                system for the State of Indiana, &c. 

                            By Mr. WOLFE: [258] To amend section 105 of the Practice act,
                                approved June 17, 1852. 

                            By Mr. SHOEMAKER: [259] To amend sections 78, 79, 94, 95, 123, 136,
                                142 and 143 of the valuation and assessment, act, approved June 21,
                                1852 ; on his motion the rules were suspended-yeas 37, nays 6-the
                                bill read by its title only the first and second time, and referred
                                to the Committee on Finance.

                            [Mr. LINE made an ineffectual motion-yeas 18, nays 21-to take from
                                the table his bill 8-see pages 25 and 238 of these Reports-that it
                                might be placed on the files.] 

                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON PLEAS COURTS AND JURIES.

                            Senator Shoemaker's bill 65-see page 88 of these Reports-coming up in
                                order, it was read the third time.

                            Mr. COBB. This bill gives the judge and clerk the right to dispense
                                with a regular panel of jurors if they deem it necessary, I think it
                                is right, and hope it will pass.

                            The bill was finally passed by yeas 87 nays 4.

                             Senator Studabaker's bill 117-see page 163 of these Reports-was read
                                the third time-

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. This bill simply provides that in cases where
                                mortgages are foreclosed in either the Circuit or Common Pleas
                                Courts, the clerk may go to the recorder's office and enter
                                satisfaction.

                            The bill was finally passed by yeas 40, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. SLACK his bill 171-see page 212-which failed to pass
                                for want of a constitutional majority-see page 258-was taken up.

                            On motion of Mr. MARCH, and by unanimous consent, the bill was
                                amended, so that the Court of Common Pleas may fix the order in
                                which the docket shall be disposed of.

                            The bill was then finally passed by yeas 37, nays 4.

                            Senator Cobb's bill [93,] changing the times of holding the common
                                pleas court in Jackson county, was read the third time.

                            On motion by Mr. JONES, and by unanimous consent, the bill was
                                amended, so as to change the time of holding the court in
                                Bartholomew county.

                            The bill was then finally passed by yeas 40, nays 0. 

                        
                        

                        
                            BANKS AND BANKING.

                            Senator Claypool's bill [121,]-see page 163 of these Reports-was read
                                the third time.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. This bill provides that, upon filing a bond to redeem
                                the outstanding notes of a bank that has been wound up (after one or
                                two years notice,) the officers shall have the privilege of
                                withdrawing the securities remaining in the State Auditor's
                                office.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to recommit, with instructions to amend, so that
                                where bills have  been redeemed
                                for less than their face, after the lapse of two years a further
                                dividend ball be made of the surplus in his hands, to those who have
                                heretofore received dividends.

                            Mr. MARCH thought there was something meritorious in the amendment,
                                if it could be made to fit the bill.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON opposed the amendment, and pointed out its
                                inconsistencies.

                            Mr. MELLETT made an ineffectual motion to lay on the table the motion
                                to recommit.

                            Mr. MURRAY opposed the amendment.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL cited a case of hardship for the want of such a law as
                                this (the Connersville bank,) and urged the passage of the bill,
                                without amendment.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB explained the effect of his amendment, and insisted that
                                the bill was not perfect without it.

                            Mr. MELLETT objected to the amendment. If there has been a just bill
                                presented to the Legislature this session, this is one.

                            The motion to recommit was agreed to.

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Senator O'Brien's bill 76-see page 96 of these Reports-coming up in
                                order, was read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 32, nays
                                2.

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, his bill 136-see page 184-was taken up, and
                                read the third time.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. In counties embracing a population of over 30,000, the
                                commissioners' court may set fifteen days.

                            The bill finally passed, yeas 29, nays 8.

                            Senator Johnson's bill 82, to repeal the act amending section 143 of
                                the assessment act, approved March 4, 1859, was read the third time,
                                and finally passed by yeas 26, nays 12.

                            Senator Miller's bill 96-see page 129 of these Reports-was read the
                                third time.

                            Mr. MILLER. This bill provides that where a judgment shall be
                                rendered on any instrument of writing containing promises to pay
                                money, without relief from valuation or appraisement laws, such
                                judgment shall contain an order that it shall be so executed.

                            The bill was finally passed, by yeas 33, nays 5.

                            Senator March's bill 98-see page 150 of these Reports-was read the
                                third time.

                            Mr. MARCH. The object of this bill is to compel suits brought upon
                                promissory notes, assigned without endorsement, to be instituted in
                                the townships where the party liable to judgment resides.

                            The bill was finally passed, by yeas 29, nays 10.

                            Messages from the House announced the passage by that body of the
                                bills H. R. 324, H. R. 62, and S. 104 ; also, a concurrent
                                resolution requesting Congressmen to use all honorable efforts to
                                prevent the renewal of a patent to McCormack's mowing machine (which
                                was subsequently concurred in by the Senate, just before the
                                adjournment) ; and the joint resolution S. 5-see pages 68 and 158 of
                                these Reports.

                            Senator Lomax's bill 73-see page 96 of these Reports-was read the
                                third time, and finally passed, by yeas 38, nays 0.

                            Senator Johnson's bill 81-see page 104 of these Reports-was read the
                                third time.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. As the law now stands, a man that takes more than six
                                per cent interest is liable to indictment, this bill amends that
                                law, so as to allow ten per cent.

                            Mr. MARCH. If the civil law is changed, I will vote for this bill,
                                but would prefer that it should lay over until that question is
                                decided.

                            Mr. SHIELDS moved to indefinitely postpone the bill.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN. I regard this as very sharp practice as changing the
                                rate of interest to ten per cent.; which I shall vote against first,
                                last, and all the time.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. This bill only prevents men from being indicted if they
                                take more than six, and not over ten per cent, interest. It does not
                                change the interest law at all.

                            The motion to indefinitely postpone was rejected, by yeas 13, nays
                                26.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN made an ineffectual motion to lay the bill on the
                                table.

                            The bill finally passed by yeas 26, nays 14 as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Berry,
                                            Blair, Claypool, Conner, Conley, Craven of Jefferson,
                                            Culver, Dickinson, Hamilton, Johnson, Jones, Mellett,
                                            Miller, Newcomb, Odell, Shoemaker, Steele, Stone,
                                            Studabaker, Turner, Wagner, White, Wilson, and
                                            Wolfe-26.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Carnahan, Cobb, Craven of
                                            Madison, Grubb, Hull, Lomax, March, Murray, Bay,
                                            Robinson, Shields, Shoulders, Tarkington, and
                                            Williams-14. 
                                    
                                
                            

                            Senator Miller's bill 88-described on page 105 of these Reports-was
                                read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 38, nays 1.

                            Senator March's bill 138-see page 185 of these Reports-was read the
                                third time. 

                            Mr. MARCH. This bill proposes to give express power to a special
                                judge to grant a change of venue, and to grant a continuance. I
                                propose, by unanimous consent, to amend the bill so as to confer
                                upon him the power to go to that county and try the case, and that
                                not more than one change of venue shall be granted to the same
                                party.

                            No objection being made, the bill was so amended, and then finally
                                passed by yeas 40, nays 0.

                            The Committee on Agriculture's bill 99-described
                                on page 158-was read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 26,
                                nays 9.

                            [On motion by Mr. BLAIR, his bill 141 was taken from the table and
                                placed upon the files.]

                            Mr. STEELE, from a Select Committee, returned Senator Newcomb's bill
                                [70] for the relief of John W. White, recommending passage with an
                                amendment, striking out the name of "John W. White," and inserting
                                in  lieu thereof the name of
                                "Lot Edwards." The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. CONNER; from the Committee on the Organization of
                                    Courts, returned Senator Craven's bill [221],
                                extending the time of holding circuit courts in Jefferson county one
                                week, recommending passage. The report was concurred in, and on his
                                motion the bill was considered as engrossed, read the third time,
                                and finally passed, by yeas 36, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, his bill 134, licensing dogs, &c., was
                                taken up, and referred to a Select Committee of three, viz.:
                                Senators Murray, Dickinson, and White.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, his bill 245 was taken up, read the second
                                time, and referred to the Judiciary
                                Committee.

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the vote of day before yesterday,
                                recommitting Senator Line's bill 54-see pages 69, 171, and 162-was
                                reconsidered, and the bill read the third time.

                            Mr. WOLFE. This bill was recommitted for the purpose of obviating
                                some objectionable features; and I will not vote for it as long as
                                it allows pay out of the county treasury.

                            Mr. FERGUSON moved to recommit, with instructions to reduce the fee
                                in cases of felony to $5.

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, this motion to recommit was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. ANTHONY objected to the bill, because when the business is heavy
                                it would give to prosecuting attornies an exhorbitant salary.

                            The bill was rejected by yeas 16, nays 22.

                            Mr. BEESON moved to reconsider the vote just taken.

                            Mr. LOMAX made an ineffectual motion to lay this motion on the
                                table.

                            The motion to reconsider was agreed to.

                            Mr. MARCH moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to amend as
                                follows : "nor shall the district prosecutor be paid any fees out of
                                the public treasury, when any attorney is employed to assist in the
                                prosecution and is paid for his services out of the public
                                treasury."

                            Mr. ANTHONY offered additional instructions to strike out "$10''
                                wherever it occurs, and insert "$5."The motion to recommit was
                                agreed to.[On motion by Mr. ODELL, his bill 89 was taken from the
                                table and referred to Senators Odell, DeHart and Ray.]

                            Mr. MILLER made an ineffectual motion to send the following
                                instructions to the Committee: "Amend by providing for a salary of
                                $300 per annum, and strike out all that part of the bill which
                                provides for the payment of docket fees out of the county
                                treasury."

                            On motion by Mr. SHOULDERS, the bill H. R. 42, Was read the first
                                time. He made an ineffectual motion to suspend the rules in order to
                                read the bill the second time now.

                            Senator Teegarden's bill 106-see page 159 of these Reports-was read
                                the third time.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN. This is a copy of a law now in existence in Michigan,
                                and it works well. I see no reason why it should not be adopted
                                here.

                            The bill was finally passed by yeas 32 nays 5.

                            Senator Conner's bill 101-see page 159 of these Reports-was read the
                                third time and finally passed by yeas 31, nays 9.

                            Mr. WOLFE made an ineffectual motion to suspend the regular order,
                                and take up the bill [H. R. 324] fixing the times of courts in the
                                2d Judicial Circuit.

                            Senator Blair's bill 203-see page 244 of these Reports-was read the
                                third time.

                            Mr. WOLFE. I think the Governor of Indiana would become a dangerous
                                individual if he is not already so, when he shall become in
                                possession of all the arms belonging to the State. I do not believe
                                there is any necessity for calling the State arms here. It will lead
                                to trouble and expense for nothing.

                            Mr. RAY. This is a proposition to disarm the State. I shall be
                                compelled to vote against the bill.

                            Mr. MURRAY. I am in favor of the bill.

                            Mr. WOLFE moved to recommit the bill,with instructions to strike out
                                all the border counties of the State.

                            The PRESIDENT decided this motion out of order-the roll call having
                                been commenced.

                            The bill finally passed by yeas 25, nays 16-as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Anthony, Beeson, Berry, Blair,
                                            Campbell, Clay, pool, Conner, Craven of Madison, Cravens
                                            of Jefferson, Dickinson, Ferguson, Grubb, Hull, March,
                                            Mellett, Miller, Murray, Newcomb, Odell, Robinson,
                                            Steele, Stone, Teegarden, Turner, Wagner, and
                                            White-26.

                                        NAYS-Carnanan, Cobb, Conley, Hamilton,
                                            Johnson, Jones, Line, Lomax, Ray, Shields, Shoemaker,
                                            Shoulders, Studabaker, Tarkington, Williams, and
                                            Wolf-16.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            House bills 62, 824, 18, 46, 53, 69, 78, 81, 161 and 173 were read
                                and severally passad to the second reading.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, February 27, 1861.
                        

                        Mr. FISHER in the Chair.

                        Mr. ROBBINS asked, but did not obtain leave to record his vote on Mr.
                            Veatch's Bank bill [62] which was passed yesterday. 

                        
                            PETITIONS.

                            Mr. CAMERON presented the memorial of N. B. Price and others against
                                sheep-killing dogs ; which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            Mr. COMBS presented the memorial of Wm. W. Kinneman and others,
                                citizens of the State of Indiana, without respect to party, for
                                Legislative instructions in favor of Compromise on the basis of the
                                Crittenden propositions; which was referred to the 
                                    Committee of Thirteen.

                            Mr. JENKINSON presented the claim of William Rockhill for $10,000 on
                                account of 100 acres of land sold to the Commissioners  for a site for the Northern State
                                Prison; was referred to the Committee on Claims. 

                        
                        

                        
                            CIRCTIT COURTS OF THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

                            Mr. HEFFREN asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill [324] To
                                repeal all laws now in force establishing the time of holding the
                                circuit courts in the Second Judicial Circuit, to fix the time of
                                holding said courts, requiring all persons to take notice thereof,
                                providing for the return of process, &c.; and (the
                                constitutional provision being suspended for the purpose,) it was
                                passed the second reading, ordered to be engrossed, considered as
                                engrossed, and passed the third and last reading in the House of
                                Representatives yeas 84, nays 4.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS (by unanimous consent) from the Select Committee
                                thereon, returned the bill [S. 177] To amend sec. 5 of the act
                                fixing the times of holding courts in the several counties in this
                                State, with an amendment, viz : the times of holding courts in Ohio
                                county shall be the second Monday in January, May and September, and
                                hold for one week only.

                            The amendment was adopted, and ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. FISH&R, from the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means, reported a bill [325] To raise revenue for
                                State purposes for the years 1861 and 1862 : which was passed to the
                                second reading. 

                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE.

                            Mr. CASON returned Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's bill [315] To amend the
                                liquor law of 1859 in the 3d, 4th, 9th and llth sections,
                                recommending passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. BUNDY returned the bill [S. 116] To amend section 7 of the act of
                                February 5, '52, to provide for the election of Reporter to the
                                Supreme Court, &c. , recommending passage.

                            It was passed to the third reading.

                            Mr. EDSON returned Mr. Brett's bill [254] To provide for the
                                re-valuation and sale of for-forfeited school lands, recommending
                                its passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. GRESHAM returned Mr. Slack's bill [S. 104] To amend the acts of
                                May 6, 1852, and March 2, 1859, concerning real property and the
                                alienation thereof, and to legalize conveyance made by Indians,
                                negroes and mulattoes, and persons of mixed blood, recommending
                                passage.

                            It was ordered to the third reading, read the third time, and passed
                                yeas 82, nays 2.

                            Mr. EDSON returned Mr. Mutz's bill [220] To amend the 17th section of
                                the act of May 14, 1852, regulating the descent and apportionment of
                                estates, recommending passage.

                            It was ordered to be engroseed.

                            He also returned his own bill [281] for the compensation of District
                                Attorneys and regulating their fees, with an amendment, reducing the
                                salary to $300, the county to pay the salary.

                            The amendment was adopted, and so the bill was ordered to the
                                engrossment.

                            Mr. BINGHAM returned Mr. Veatch's bill [286] To provide for the
                                detection and arrest of felons, recommending passage.He also
                                returned the joint resolution [5] proposing to amend the second
                                article of the Constitution, so as to guard against fraudulent
                                voting, recommending its passage.

                            It was passed the House-yeas 82, nays 2.

                            Mr. VEATCH returned Mr. Branham's sinking fund bill [235]
                                recommending passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. DAVIS. from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned the concurrent resolution [13] for Legislative instructions
                                against the renewal of McCormick's patent for Reapers and Mowers,
                                recommending its adoption. The resolution was accordingly
                                adopted.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG from the Committee on the Organization of Courts,
                                reported favorably on Mr. Packard's common pleas bill, [263] and it
                                was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. CAMERON, from the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions, returned the petition of N. Field, and
                                others, for admission to the Lunatic Asylum of epileptic patients,
                                from the State Prison, and reported that there are now more recent
                                and curable patients in the Asylum than can well be accommodated,
                                and such should be preferred before the epileptics, which cases are
                                rarely curable. The Committee would like to recommend an addition to
                                the Hospital, but in the present condition of the treasury, they are
                                constrained to report further legislation in this matter
                                inexpedient.

                            The report was concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON SCHOOL SYSTEM.

                            The SPEAKER announced the special order-viz: the consideration of the
                                    Education Committee's bill [61.]

                            Mr. GROVER stated that it was got up in connection with the Senate
                                    Committee on Education, &c.

                            Mr. HEFFREN, to facilitate amendments, moved that the House go into
                                    Committee of the Whole.

                            And accordingly, the House resolved into Committee of the Whole-Mr.
                                Heffren in the Chair-and proceeded to read and consider the bill
                                [61] To provide' for a general system of Common Schools, the
                                officers thereof, and their respective powers and duties, and
                                matters properly connected therewith; and for the establishment and
                                regulation of township libraries.

                            The first section being read-

                            Mr. FISHER moved to fill the first blank with ten cents [tax.]

                            Mr. VEATCH proposed 15 cents for the first, and 25 cents for the
                                second [poll tax.]

                            Mr. VEATCH'S first amendment was rejected, and the second
                                adopted.

                            

                            Mr. FISHER'S amendment was adopted.

                            The second section being read-

                            Mr. GROVER moved to strike out "and unclaimed fees," where it first
                                occurs, and insert the same after the words "of intoxicating
                                liquors," so as to guarantee its distribution principal and
                                interest-throughout the State : which was adopted on a
                                division-affirmative 33, negative 31.

                            Mr. RAGAN proposed to strike out all that part relating to funds
                                arising from the sale of intoxicating liquors.

                            Mr. LANE was opposed to having the children of the State educated
                                from the drunkard's fund. It might better go to the support of the
                                Lunatic Asylum.

                            Mr. FRASIER was at a loss to see the difference between funds. He
                                preferred that it should go to the education of the neglected
                                children, than to foster the drunken father, &c.

                            Mr. PARRETT. It was ''straining out a gnat and swallowing a
                                camel."

                            Mr. RAGAN. The school fund had been cursed ever since the liquor fund
                                went into it. He regarded the support of the common schools as the
                                most important question in our legislation, and would yield to no
                                man in zeal in this direction.

                            Mr. PARRETT. This discrimination was all nonsense.

                            Mr. FORD asked the gentleman from Putnam if, as a member of the
                                church, he would object to a man appropriating his money in his
                                church because he is a grocery keeper. Although the fund may come
                                from an evil source, great good may come out of it.

                            Mr. Ragan's amendment was rejected.

                            Mr. BRETT proposed to insert: "add the same to the general fund."

                            Mr. BLACK proposed to make everything "principal" accruing to the
                                school fund, except funds arising from interest and taxes.

                            Mr. BRETT accepted, but the amendment was rejected by the
                                Committee.

                            Mr. FISHER moved to reconsider the vote adopting the 25 cents poll
                                tax, in the first section, for the purpose of making it 50
                                cents.

                            Mr. CAMERON. Property ought to educate the people.

                            Mr. PARRETT took the same position. The interest of every man was
                                represented here, except the man that had no property. He would not
                                raise this poll tax.

                            Mr. FERGUSON concurred in the same views.

                            Mr. RAGAN. These poor men wanted the privilege of doing something for
                                the State, to help pay for their schooling. He had an amendment to
                                make it 50 cents, and he should vote for it as a friend of the poor
                                man.

                            Mr. THOMAS spoke in favor of the 50 cents poll tax.

                            The vote was reconsidered.

                            Mr. RAGAN proposed to fill the blank with 50 cents.

                            Mr. VEATCH. It does not reach old men without children; but it does
                                reach that unfortunate class that have none. The blank was filled
                                with 50 cents.

                            Mr. PARRETT made an ineffectual motion to reconsider the vote on the
                                first blank in the first section.

                            Section 3 having been read-

                            Mr. BUNDY proposed to add: " and it shall be the duty of the Attorney
                                General to see to this interest, and that such counties as have lost
                                any part of this fund shall replace the same.

                            Mr. DOBBINS proposed to amend by adding:" It shall be the duty of the
                                Attorney General to see that the State of Indiana pay the interest
                                on the money borrowed by the State from said fund;" which was
                                declared out of order.

                            Mr. Bundy's amendment was adopted.

                            Sections 4, 5, 6, were severally read and passed without
                                amendment.

                            Section 7 was amended by adding " without benefit of valuation or
                                appraisement laws."

                            Section 8 was read and passed.

                            Section 9 being read-

                            Mr. ATKISSON proposed to strike out all that relates to the
                                establishment of graded schools. 

                            Mr. WOODHULL. The graded school was for the benefit of the children
                                of the poor.

                            The amendment was rejected.

                            Section 10 being read-

                             Mr. WOODS proposed a substitute for the 10th section, viz.: " The
                                schools of the townships that require but one teacher shall receive
                                an equal amount of money, and each school shall be numbered."

                            Mr. VEATCH and Mr. CASON. The proposition was to level downward to
                                the capacity of the least favored districts.

                            The amendment was rejected.

                            Section 11 being read-

                            Mr. HAWORTH proposed to strike out the words "with the concurrence of
                                the county commissioners of their respective counties" [Trustees'
                                tax;] which was rejected.

                            Section 12 was read-

                            Mr. WOODHULL proposed to insert after "trustee," "or by the director
                                of such district."

                            Mr. VEATCH. What director?

                            Mr. WOODHULL. Of the school district. 

                            It was rejected.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed " trustee" in place of " assessors."

                            Mr. VEATCH. It would mar the bill.

                            It was rejected.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, proposed to strike out all after the word "
                                enumeration"the clause including pupils over twenty-one-to test the
                                committee on this question.

                            Mr. LANE. Winter schools were crowded with applications from such
                                pupils. They should not exclude the children.

                            Mr. DAVIS. It was proposed to tax young men-should they be excluded? 

                            

                            Mr. WOODHULL. The provision of the Constitution require that we shall
                                include all who need school instruction.

                            Mr. ORR desired to encourage young men to come to school.

                            It was rejected.

                            Mr. VEATCH proposed to insert appropriately: "together with the legal
                                voters hereinafter provided;" and at the end: " and provided
                                further, that any legal voter, whether having charge of children or
                                not, may attach himself to the school district at any time before
                                closing the enumeration."

                            Mr. WOODS and Mr. FISHER thought this was comprehended in sec.
                                13.

                            Mr. VEATCH. It would cut off all legal voters not having
                                children.

                            The amendment was adopted.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to strike out "five" and insert "seven"for
                                the age of admission of pupils.

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams. The Constitution says, the schools shall be
                                free and open to all.

                            Mr. WOODHULL would not obstruct the draft at the "pyerrian spring." .
                                [Applause.]Mr. Stotsenberg supported his proposition.

                            Mr. PARRETT proposed to amend the amendment, by inserting "six,"
                                which was rejected; and then Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment was
                                rejected.

                            Section 13 was passed without amendment.

                            Section 14 being read-

                            Mr. GROVER proposed to add: "and it shall be lawful for the trustee
                                of the township to which such territory shall be transferred, to
                                locate and build school houses therein, the same as if such
                                territory was a part of the civil township to which it was
                                attached.

                            The amendment was rejected.

                            Section 15 was passed over.

                            Section 16 being read-

                            Mr. ORR proposed to strike out "examiner," and insert "auditor;"
                                which was rejected.

                            Section 17 was passed.

                            Section 18 being read-

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to strike out "jurisdiction," and insert
                                "county," (with regard to newspaper publication.)

                            Mr. FISHER proposed " township," which was rejected.

                            Mr. Frasier's amendment was also rejected.

                            Mr. BRETT proposed to strike out all that relates to publishing the
                                trustee's statement in a newspaper.

                            Mr. ATKISSON hoped it would prevail.

                            Mr. PARRETT preferred the section as it stands-giving the discretion
                                to print or not entirely to the trustee.

                            Mr. FORD and Mr. McCLURG concurred with Mr. Parrett.

                            Mr. CRAIN and Mr. PROSSER were for restricting the trustee to
                                economy.

                            Mr. CAMERON proposed to add: "provided it can be published free of
                                cost."

                            The amendment to the amendment was rejected.

                            Mr. PROSSER moved to reconsider the vote on Mr. Orr's motion to
                                require the trustee to report to the auditor, instead of the "
                                Examiner."

                            On motion by Mr. Speaker ALLEN, the committee rose, reported
                                progress, and asked and obtained leave to sit again this afternoon. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            The House, in Committee of the Whole, resumed the
                                School bill-Mr. Heffren in the Chair.

                            Mr. Brett's amendment was adopted.

                            Mr. Prosser's motion to reconsider the vote rejecting Mr. Orr's
                                motion to strike out from the 16th section, the words "school
                                examiner," and insert "county auditor," coming up-

                            Mr. FISHER, Mr. NEBEKER and Mr. BUNDY. Several members of the
                                    Committee on Education are not present. They
                                concurred in view of the proposed amendment.

                            Mr. ORR. This Examiner clause would create a new county officer which
                                would involve the school system in an annual expense of twelve or
                                fifteen thousand dollars.

                            Mr. VEATCH urged that it would be better to consider this question
                                under section 33 in relation to school examiners.

                            Mr. PROSSER acquiesced, and the motion to reconsider was passed
                                over.

                            Section 19 being read-

                            Mr. COLLINS, of Adams, proposed to insert "assistant" before
                                "teacher."

                            Mr. HENRICKS proposed "principal" before "teacher" in the second
                                line; which was accepted and adopted; and so the question was
                                passed.

                            Section 20 being read-

                            Mr. McCLURG proposed to amend by striking out all between " subject"
                                in line 14, and "amount" in the 17th line, and insert a clause
                                subjecting the delinquent trustee to a penalty of $25, allowing the
                                penalty to fall on the head of the delinquent party. The people of
                                the township should not suffer for the delinquency of their
                                officer.

                            It was adopted.

                            Mr. LANE proposed to strike out the word "average" in the 5th line;
                                which was rejected.

                            Sections 21, 22 were read and passed.

                            Section 23 being read-

                            Mr. GROVER proposed to add: The director so selected shall, within 20
                                days, notify the trustee of the township; and, in case he fails to
                                do so, the trustee shall appoint, &c.

                            Mr. ROBERTS proposed to strike out " inhabitants," and insert " legal
                                voters," which was rejected.

                            Sections 24, 25 were read and passed.

                            Section 26 being read-

                            Mr. GROVER proposed to insert[Trustees] shall fill all vacancies that
                                may occur in the office of director; which was adopted.

                            Section 27 was passed.

                            Section 28 being read-

                            Mr. NEBEKER proposed to strike out the  words "only from good cause shown"so
                                the trustee shall not overrule the people in the matter of the
                                discharge of a teacher.

                            Mr. MOORMAN thought they ought to show cause.

                            Mr. FRASIER. A teacher could do little good where the majority were
                                opposed to him.

                            Mr. PROSSER. The suffrages of the majority made a sufficient
                                showing.

                            The amendment was rejected.

                            Mr. RAGAN proposed " previously " before the last word of the
                                section; which was rejected.

                            Sections 29-32 were passed.

                            Section 33 being read-

                            Mr. BRETT proposed "annually" instead of "triennially" (term of
                                county examiner;) which was adopted.

                            Mr. GROVER proposed to insert n which oath shall be filed with the
                                county auditor;" which was adopted.

                            Section 34 being read-

                            Mr. GROVER proposed to insert "any other evidence of qualification;"
                                which was adopted.

                            Section 35 being read-

                            Mr. CAMERON proposed to strike it out. A common school was not a
                                college, &c.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. The law provides for graded schools, and what was the
                                use of restricting advancement?

                            The amendment was rejected.

                            Mr. STEVENSON proposed: "Director" employ the teacher instead of
                                "trustee," which was rejected.

                            Section 36 being read-

                            Mr. PROSSER proposed to strike out "and a second certificate shall
                                not be granted to any individual for such low grade of qualification
                                ; " which was rejected.

                            Section 37 was passed.

                            Section 38 being read-

                            Mr. GROVER proposed "May," instead of "August," which was agreed
                                to.

                            Section 45 being read- 

                            Mr. ANDERSON proposed to substitute for the 10th section : Sec. 10.
                                The county examiner shall hold public examinations of applicants for
                                license at the county seats on the first Mondays in April, Juue,
                                August, October and December; and as far as practicable shall have
                                such examination by classes." His object was to establish the time
                                by law, so that everybody who desired to do so may be present.

                            Mr. VEATCH. The object of the bill was not to confine educational
                                influences to the county seat, &c.

                            Mr. DAVIS. If you set a certain time it implies that a teacher shall
                                not have a license at any other time.

                            The amendment was rejected.

                            Mr. RAGAN. There should be an examination at least once a month-say
                                on the first Saturday of each month. It was rejected.

                            Mr. GRESHAM thought these examinations would throw the law into
                                disrepute. He moved to strike out the whole section.

                            Mr. FRASIER. It would excite emulation among teachers.

                            Mr. PARRETT took an opposite People should not go without teachers
                                for of examinations. He was for striking out.

                            Mr. VEATCH. The bill certainly was intended to admit of examinations
                                at any time as well as to require stated public examinations.

                            The committee refused to strike out-affirmative 25, negative 41.

                            Mr. KNOWLTON proposed to add : "Provided the school examiner shall
                                examine any applicant that may call upon him for the purpose; which
                                was adopted.

                            Section 46 being read-

                            Mr. LANE moved to strike it out. There was room for abuse here by
                                collusions.

                            Mr. CAMERON proposed : " not exceeding two dollars per day"the
                                service to be sworn to.

                            . FRASIER proposed $10 50.

                            These were both rejected.

                            Mr. MOORMAN proposed to require the examiner to submit an accurate
                                account of his services, verified by oath or affirmation-which was
                                adopted.

                            Mr. NEBEKER proposed to insert "whose (the commissioners') decision
                                shall be "final;" which was rejected.

                            Mr. MOORMAN proposed to add: "Provided, that in no case shall his
                                annual compensation exceed $150;" which was rejected; and then the
                                question recurred on Mr. Lane's motion to strike out.

                            Mr. GRESHAM spoke in favor of striking out, and it was passed over
                                again.

                            Mr. WOODHULL and Mr. PROSSER now urged the motion to consider the
                                vote refusing to substitute "county auditor" for "school examiner"
                                in the 16th section.

                            Mr. FRASIER. Was it proposed to transfer all the duties of the
                                examiner to the county auditor? If so, was it to be supposed that he
                                would be competent in all cases, or that he would attend to all this
                                business for nothing?

                            Mr. VEATCH said the defect of the present system was at this point
                                the inability of the county auditors to attend to those duties here
                                proposed to be devolved on the county examiner. He believed this
                                bill fully provided for the performance of these duties, and for
                                that reason he was for it. The allowance of compensation was brought
                                down to the people themselves.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, opposed the creation of a new officer. A
                                proposition to limit this officer's compensation to $150 was voted
                                down. At that rate the annual expense of this officer would be
                                $13,950.

                            Mr. CASON. The failure of this provision would be fatal to the bill.
                                The auditor was now fully paid for all these duties proposed for the
                                school examiner. The committee
                                refused to reconsider; and then the committee refused to strike out
                                section 45.

                            Section 47 was passed.

                            Section 48 being read-

                            Mr. GROVER proposed to strike out "April' and insert "March;" which
                                was adopted.

                            Section 49, 52 were passed. 

                            Mr. NEBEKER, being satisfied that this was a scheme to tax the
                                people, without any corresponding benefit, he moved that the
                                committee rise and ask to be discharged from the further
                                consideration of the subject. His motion failed.

                            Sections 53, 77 were passed.

                            Section 78 being read-

                            On motion by Mr. CASON, "loaned at 10 per cent." was made "seven;"
                                and so through out the bill.

                            Sections 79, 114 were passed.

                            Section 115 being read-

                            Mr. GROVER proposed to add: " which report shall be verified by the
                                oath of the auditor endorsed thereon;" which was agreed to.

                            Sections 116 and 117 were passed.

                            Section 118 being read-

                            Mr. GROVER proposed to insert: "together with his own affidavit of
                                that fact:" which was agreed to.

                            Mr. CASON made an ineffectual motion to strike out section 119.

                            Sections 120 to 124 were passed.

                            On motion by Mr. ANDERSON, section 125 (allowing the Superintendent
                                of Public Instruction $500 a year while engaged in traveling) was
                                stricken out.

                            Section 126 was passed.

                            Section 127 being read-

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to strike out, the provision for a clerk of the
                                Superintendent at $1,000; which was agreed to.

                            Mr. PROSER moved ineffectually to reconsider this vote.

                            Sections 128, 129 were passed.

                            Section 130 being read-

                            On motion by Mr. KNOWLTON, 5,000 instead of 10,000 was fixed as the
                                number of copies of the Superintendent's biennial report.

                            Mr. FRASIER made an ineffectual motion to strike out the section.

                             Section 131 being read-

                            On motion by Mr. HORTON, these words were stricken from the last line
                                : "shall forfeit a sum equal to half the annual amount allowed him
                                for clerk hire."

                            On motion by Mr. CAMERON, section 132, making the Superintendent
                                ex-officio a member of the Board of Trustees for the institution for
                                the deaf and dumb and for the blind, was stricken out.

                            On motion by Mr. Anderson, section 133 (Superintendent shall visit
                                each county once a year) was also stricken out.

                            Mr. GROVER now moved that the committee rise, and asked to be
                                discharged from the further consideration of the bill.

                            Mr. FISHER. The amendments have killed it.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to amend the motion to rise, by adding: "and
                                report that, in the opinion of the Committee of the
                                    Whole, common schools are a useless and expensive
                                institution, and we recommend the passage of an act to abolish the
                                same," &c.; which was ruled out of order.

                            The committee then rose, and the Chairman reported the bill back, and
                                asked and obtained discharge from its further consideration.

                            Mr. CAMERON moved that the bill be referred again to the
                                    Committee on Education.

                            Mr. GROVER. That committee need not report again on this bill.

                            The SPEAKER (Mr. Hefferen in the chair). The bill is in the same
                                situation it was before it went to the Committee of the Whole-the
                                amendments not having been reported to the House.

                            Mr. PROSSER moved to refer the bill to a Select Committee of Five. He
                                was in favor of a practical revision of the common school
                                system.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. That was a very convenient way for gentlemen to avoid
                                placing themselves upon the record. Our system was not effective. It
                                was disgeaceful as compared with that of Michigan. He wanted the
                                people to know who were friends and who were enemies of common
                                school education.

                            Mr. PACKARD was in favor of the main provisions of the bill, for
                                example, those empowering townships to raise school money. What had
                                stirred up gentlemen, but the striking out the sections creating
                                officers? He also wanted gentlemen to go upon the record on this
                                question.

                            Mr. FISHER. The law already allows a clerk to the Superintendent.

                            Mr. PACKARD hoped still that it would not be thrown aside.

                            Mr. VEATCH. If there were any mode by which gentlemen could be
                                brought to vote for it, he was willing to go to work again. He
                                thought the difficulty was about these examiners. It should go again
                                to the Committee on Education.

                            Mr. PROSSER was not particular about the committee. He wished by all
                                means to avoid any attempt to plunder the school fund. He withdrew
                                his motion.

                            Mr. Cameron's motion was then agreed to, and the bill was referred
                                again to the Committee on Education.

                            The House then adjourned. 

                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            THURSDAY, February 28, 1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. MURRAY. The reading of the Journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with.

                        The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a report from the Librarian of the
                            amount of stationery furnished to Senators in the past  two weeks; which was referred to the
                                Finance Committee, without reading.

                        The PRESIDENT also laid before the Senate a proposition from Eider &
                            Harkness to do the public printing as well as ever it has been done at
                            30 per cent, less than the prices now paid by law.

                        Mr. TARKINGTON offered the following:

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, by the Senate, (the House
                                        concurring) that the office of State Printer be and is
                                        hereby abolished, and that the State officers are hereby
                                        required to at once contract with Messrs. Elder &
                                        Harkness to do all the public printing at the prices, and on
                                        the conditions embraced in their proposition this day
                                        submitted, until further directed by the Legislature. 
                                
                                
                            
                        

                        On motion by Mr. WAGNER the whole matter was referred to the
                                Committee on Printing.

                        Petitions in favor of a settlement of our national troubles on a basis
                            similar to the Crittenden propositions were presented: By Mr. LOMAX from
                            212 citizens of Orange county: By Mr. WOLFE from nearly 900 citizens of
                            Harrison county, " a considerable portion of them Republicans." By Mr.
                            LINE, "among the names are some of the most prominent Republicans in
                            Franklin county:" By Mr. LANDERS from citizens of Hendricks county.

                        All of which were referred to the Committee on Federal
                                Relations. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES

                            Were made and concurred in as follows: (except in the cases named
                                )

                            
                                By Mr. MARCH: Judiciary-returning Senator
                                    bill [245] for the relief of Joseph Moore, recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON: Finance-returning Senator
                                    Stone's bill [207], reducing the fees of county treasurers,
                                    recommending passage.

                            

                            Mr. WAGNER objected to concurrence.

                            Mr. STONE. I hope the report of the committee will be sustained by
                                the Senate. I would like to see uniformity in our State. I should
                                like to see every county treasurer entitled to 2 J per cent, for
                                paying out the revenue. While a great many treasurers have
                                understood that in addition to the fees for collection, they are
                                entitled to a fee of 2 1/2 per cent, for passing over county orders;
                                a great many understand that they are not entitled to it. Our county
                                board supposed the 2 1/2 per cent, to be illegal, and would not pay
                                it over. I believe the office of county treasurer, as a general
                                thing, pays better than any office in the county.

                            Mr. BEARSS. I am opposed to this bill, and move to concur in the
                                committee report with the following amendment:

                            Two and one half per cent, for securing and paying out all other
                                moneys than school tax and school fund; but nothing herein contained
                                shall forbid the allowance, now provided by law, for the disbursing
                                of school interest.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I believe the bill itself is right, and the arguments
                                against it rather weak. There is scarcely a county in the State that
                                pays its treasurer less than $1,000, and by some legerdemain they
                                manage in some cases to get as much as $8,000. If there is an office
                                that is sapping the pockets of the people it is this office of
                                county treasurer.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. This is simply an amendment, so as to prevent county
                                commissioners from allowing county treasurers than the law
                                contemplates.

                            Mr. MARCH believed the report of the committee should be concurred
                                in. Treasurers have been in the habit of taking more pay than they
                                are entitled to; and this bill is intended to make it so plain that
                                they cannot avoid the law.

                            Mr. WAGNER objected to cutting down the fees of treasurers in small
                                counties.

                            On motion by Mr. JOHNSON-yeas 23 nays 12-the amendment was laid on
                                the table.

                            Mr. LANDERS hoped the report of the Committee would be concurred
                                in.

                            Mr. MURRAY desired to carry out the idea of retrenchment and reform
                                in every case The treasurer is the best paid officer in Elkhart
                                county. He was in favor of concurring in this report, and of passing
                                the bill.

                            The report was then concurred in.

                            
                                By Mr. MELLETT: Finance-returning Senator
                                    Bearss' bill 283-see page 272 of these Reports-recommending
                                    passage with amendments to sections 94 and 96 of the assessment
                                    act.

                                By Mr. MARCH: Judiciary-returning Senator
                                    Tarkington's bill 219-see page 252-recommending that it lie on
                                    the table as a bill embracing the same subject has already been
                                    acted upon. Also his bill 228-see page 267-recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. CRAVEN: Judiciary-the bill [S. 202]
                                    regulating the fees of officers-recommending that it lie on the
                                    table. Also Senator Line's bill 54, with the amendments proposed
                                    by Senators March and Anthony, yesterday afternoon.

                            

                             Mr. HAMILTON, by leave, introduced a bill [260] releasing to William
                                Rockwell all the right, title, interest and claim of the State of
                                Indiana to a certain parcel of land situate in Allen county.

                            Mr. BEARSS introduced a bill [260] regulating the licensing of pilots
                                at the falls of the Ohio river, &c. 

                        
                        

                        
                            THE STATE PRISONS.

                            The PRESIDENT announced the special order for 10 o'clock-being the
                                bill [S. 222] to provide for the government of tthe State
                                Prisons-the question being on Senator Line's motion of yesterday
                                morning to concur with an amendment.

                            On Mr. HULL's motion, this question was laid on the table, by yeas
                                23, nays 22.

                            Mr JONES moved to concur with an amendment, providing that nothing in
                                this act shall be so construed as to remove any one from office
                                until his term of office shall expire.

                            On Mr. ANTHONY'S motion, this motion was laid on the table, by yeas
                                26, nays 20.

                            Mr. HULL made an ineffectual demand for the previous question.

                            Mr. MARCH. If the northern prison is abolished, three directors are
                                sufficient, and to spare. He thought the northern penitentiary is
                                not absolutely needed, and if it can be appropriated for a house of
                                refuge, or a place to put minor criminals in, he should be in favor
                                of that kind of a proposition. The State needs such an institution,
                                more than any thing else of the kind.
                            

                            Mr. HULL. As the State prison north has been commenced, I have no
                                doubt the Legislature will make appropriations to complete it.

                            Mr. MILLER thought we could not do with less-than five directors.
                                There must be some-body to take care of the northern prison, even if
                                it be abolished.

                            Mr. ROBINSON was willing to vote for the present bill, with the
                                understanding that if the northern prison be abolished he should
                                vote again to restrict the number of directors.

                            Mr. WOLFE opposed the report. The real intention of the bill is to
                                legislate Democrats Out of office who are legally elected, and get
                                Republicans in their places. It is premature to undertake to pass
                                this bill, which relates to the nothern as well as to the southern
                                prison, before the Prison Investigating Committee report ; it is
                                getting the cart before the horse. Why not lay the matter on the
                                table until we are informed of the facts in the case ?

                            Mr. COBB concurred in the sentiments expressed by the Senator from
                                Harrison (Mr. Wolfe). The northern prison should be done away with,
                                and but three directors should be provided for. Politics should not
                                enter into the government of our benevolent institutions; and unless
                                driven to it by the action of political opponents, he never would
                                make it a test question.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. The bill proposes a radical and necessary change, and
                                has not for its purpose, simply, the turning of Democrats out of
                                office. If the northern prison is abolished, he would vote to
                                abolish the two directors for that prison. The number of officers
                                and their salaries are reduced by this bill.

                            Mr. RAY. When gentlemen insist upon taking a vote upon this question
                                now, they are insisting upon an inverse order of proceedings. We
                                ought to wait for the report of the Prison Investigating Committee.
                                The object of this bill is evidently to legislate Democratic
                                officers out of office, and legislate Republicans in. He was of
                                opinion that this measure should be postponed for the present.

                            [A message from the House announced the passage by that body of the
                                bill S. 5, with amendments.]

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL was in favor of wiping out the northern prison, and in
                                favor of the general provisions of this bill; also, he moved to
                                concur in the report of the committee by providing that, in the
                                event the northern State prison shall be discontinued, the term of
                                office of the two persons elected for the northern prison shall
                                terminate.

                            Mr. SLACK could see nothing that would be gained by the passage of
                                this bill. Unless some objection is urged to the present directors,
                                we should not interfere with the organization as it is.

                            Mr. MURRAY. A simple proposition to economise in administering the
                                affairs of the State prison, should not elicit so much discussion.
                                He was sorry to see partizan feelings affecting gentlemen in this
                                matter. He made an ineffectual demand for the previous question.

                            Mr. WOLFE moved to postpone the further consideration of the subject
                                till Tuesday, 10 o'clock.

                            On Mr. CONNER'S motion-yeas 26, nays 20-this motion was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. CONNER demanded the previous question.

                            The demand was seconded, by yeas 27, nays 19.

                            Mr. JOHNSON moved to adjourn.

                            The PRESIDENT declared the motion out of order.

                            Mr. WOLFE appealed from the decision of the chair.

                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY-yeas 25, nays 20-the appeal was laid on (he
                                table.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS demanded a call of the House.

                            The PRESIDENT decided all motions out of order during the operations
                                of the previous question.

                            Mr. SLACK appealed from this decision.

                            After fifteen minutes discussion of points of order-

                            The amendment was agreed to, by yeas 42, nays 3.

                            The committee's report was then concurred in, by yeas 26, nays
                                19.

                            The PRESIDENT then laid before the Senate the appeal of Mr.
                                Slack.

                            The question being, shall the decision of the chair stand as the
                                judgment of the House ?

                            It was so decided: yeas 28, nays 7.

                            Mr. CONLEY moved to recommit the prison bill with instructions-not
                                read.

                            The PRESIDENT decided this motion out of order, matters having
                                intervened since the vote on the bill.

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            
                                By Mr. MILLER: Education-returning the
                                    Committee's bill [S. 217] to provide a general system of common
                                    schools, &c., with amendments, mostly verbal.

                                By Mr. CRAVEN: Returning Senator Wagner's bill 230-see page
                                    267 of these Reports-without recommendation.

                                By Mr. SHIELDS : Corporations-returning
                                    Senator Hull's bill 41-see page 69-recommending passage, with an
                                    amendment striking out from the enacting clause.

                                By Mr. BEESON: Roads-returning the bill [S.
                                    192]width of State Roads-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. HULL: Roads-returning Senator
                                    Murray's bill 105-see page'159-recommending passage.

                                Also Senator Turner's bill 167-see page 212-recommending that
                                    it lie on the table, the subject matter already being provided
                                    for by law.

                                By Mr. COBB: Organization of
                                    Courts-returning the bill [H. R. 3] Common Pleas
                                    Courts in Newton county-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. ROBINSON : Roads-returning the bill
                                    [H. R. 103-see page 106-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. STONE: Roads-returning Senator
                                    White's bill 193-see page 237-recommending that it lie on the
                                    table, the committee having reported a bill containing similar
                                    provisions.

                                By Mr. DICKINSON: Organization of
                                    Courts-returning the bill [H. R. 86-described on page
                                    99-recommending indefinite postponement. 

                            
                            Mr. WAGNER moved to concur in the com mittee's report with an amendment,
                                striking out all that relates to "indefinite postponement," and
                                substituting "passage."

                            Mr. DICKINSON made an ineffectual motion-yeas 11, nays 33-to lay this
                                motion on the table.

                            Mr. SLACK (pro forma) moved to amend the motion, so
                                as to provide for an appeal from the supreme and circuit courts to
                                justices courts. [Laughter].

                            Mr. Wagner's motion was agreed to.

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, the bill was referred (with instructions) to
                                Senators Conley, Williams, and Ray.

                            Mr. SLACK submitted instructions prohibiting attornies from
                                practising in justices courts , which, on motion by Mr.
                                CARNAHAN-yeas 28, nays 20-were laid on the table.

                            Other instructions submitted by Messrs. Wolfe, Black, and Brien,
                                which were laid on the table.

                            
                                By Mr. RAY: Organization of
                                    Courts-instructed to inquire into the expediency of
                                    providing by law for the making up of a complete record by
                                    administrators and executors, reported it as inexpedient to
                                    legislate farther upon that subject.

                                By Mr. WHITE: Temperance-returning Senator
                                    Shoulders' bill 139-see page 185-recommending that it lie on the
                                    table.

                                 By Mr. DEHART: Organization of
                                    Courts-returning his notary public bill 188-see page
                                    233-recommending that it lie on the table.

                                By Mr. BEESON: Agriculture-returning the
                                    bill H. B. 199-see page 203-recommending that it lie on the
                                    table.

                            

                            Mr. ANTHONY would like to know the reason for this
                                recommendation.

                            Mr. JOHNSON objected to the bill because it makes soulless
                                corporations out of agricultural societies.

                            Mr. ANTHONY apprehended that the Committee was entirely mistaken in
                                the objects of the bill. He objected to this summar manner of
                                disposing of a bill which has passed the House and gone to its third
                                reading in the Senate. 

                            Mr. WAGNER. This law is absolutely necessary, and why the Committee
                                reported against it he could not conceive.

                            Mr. MURRAY voted with the majority of the Committee against the bill.
                                When gentletlemen undertake, by that bill, to turn all agricultural
                                societies into joint stock companies, with capital stock divided out
                                into shares, he objected. If they would confine its provisions to
                                companies got up for the purpose, he would not object.

                            Mr. WAGNER thought he might be mistaken, for he had not examined the
                                bill minutely. He moved to refer the bill to a Select Committee of
                                Three.

                            Mr. ANTHONY submitted instructions that would authorize Agricultural
                                Societies to borrow any sum of money not exceeding $10,000, to pay
                                off its indebtedness, and to issue bonds and mortgage their real
                                estate to secure the re-payment of said loan.

                            The motion to recommit was agreed to. The Committee was made to
                                consist of Senator Wagner, Anthony and Johnson.

                            
                                By Mr. TURNER: Swamp Lands-reported ''They
                                    have found that great frauds have been perpetrated upon the
                                    swamp land fund," &c., recommending that a joint Committee
                                    be raised by the Legislature, or a Commissioner be appointed by
                                    the Governor to investigate this matter.
                            

                            Mr. SLACK hoped the report would not be concurred in. He never knew
                                any good done by investigating Committees which sit during the
                                recess of the Legislature. 

                            Mr. BEARSS hoped the report would be concurred in. He favored the
                                appointment of a joint committee.

                            Mr. WOLFE, without committing himself for or against the report,
                                moved to concur with an amendment, striking out all in relation to
                                the appointment of a joint committee and inserting a provision
                                conferring the power alone upon the Attorney General.

                            Mr. TURNER thought the proper way would be for the Government to
                                appoint a commission to investigate. In one transaction happening in
                                his county, 15 or 16,000 acres of land was obtained without the
                                value of one cent being paid. They were paid for in fraudulent
                                certificates, when there was not a solitary foot of work done. These
                                frauds were carried on to a greater extent in Jasper county.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS thought all that was necessary for this Legislature to
                                do would be to direct the Attorney General to institute suit upon
                                the basis of an investigation held two years ago.

                            Mr. MILLER was not surprised to find opposition from the quarter from
                                which it has emanated; he expected opposition to the recommendation
                                of the report. The school fund has been swindled out of more than
                                $1,000,000 by these swamp land transactions, and, as a
                                representative on this floor, he demanded full, complete, and entire
                                investigation. Nothing short of a committee can perform this duty.
                                He hoped the amendment would be voted down, and a committee
                                appointed.

                            Mr. WOLFE. This investigation, conducted as proposed, would cost ten
                                times more than the whole amount of the value of these lands; while
                                the plan he proposed would cost comparatively nothing.

                            Mr. MURRAY did not know when we would get to the end of these swamp
                                land difficulties. He opposed this continual project of getting up
                                investigating committees; for he did not believe that we will
                                realize, in dollars and cents, from the investigation of the
                                Attorney General, sufficient to pay his extra charges. The real
                                truth is we have lost that land; the fund arising therefrom has been
                                squandered; and now after we know it is gone, we propose to raise a
                                committee to traverse these swamps at a great expense, in order to
                                find out where the money has gone to. It is but a project to rob the
                                people still further of their hard-earned money.

                            Mr. TURNER. The report simply suggests that the Legislature "provide
                                some means for carrying on this
                                investigation to a limited extent. A legal gentleman has given it as
                                his opinion, that one-quarter or one-half of these lands,
                                fraudulently obtained, can be recovered if legal process be
                                commenced and prosecuted to judgment. 

                            Mr. JOHNSON did not think these investigating committees amounted to
                                anything.

                            Mr. MILLER again spoke in favor of the committee's report and
                                recommendation.

                            Mr. COBB, speaking for his Democratic friends, was not afraid of
                                investigation, but on the contrary desired an effective one. He was
                                in favor of the amendment, and opposed to the report of the
                                committee unless so amended. If Senators are in favor of
                                retrenchment and reform, let them begin by cutting off their
                                investigating committees.

                            Mr. MELLETT was of opinion that the services of the late Attorney
                                General was not worth $100, while his opinions have cost the State
                                thousands and thousands of dollars. The present Attorney General has
                                now to bring suits that the late Democratic Attorney General should
                                have brought. If a suit is to be brought, the Attorney General
                                should have facts before-hand to justify him in his action. How is
                                he to ascertain facts ? He must have the strong power of the law to
                                bring these villians up and make them swear; and he has not got this
                                power. He might have that power; but it is to his interest to
                                perform as little labor as possible; and it would be calling upon
                                him to do more than his duty if he were required to make this
                                investigation alone.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB was a little tired of these investigating committees. His
                                people are not interested in swamp lands, and he did not want to
                                waste public moneys in pursuing these investigations. Let some
                                gentleman get up a bill giving to the several counties what lands
                                they can recover from the men who have swindled the State out of
                                them, lying within their bounds.

                            Mr. MARCH. The object of investigation is to expose the scoundrels
                                perpetrating frauds. He was willing to vote for any tangible measure
                                to expose the perpetrators, or to recover back the property. He
                                would favor associating the Attorney General with some practical man
                                living in the locality, in order that they may prosecute to the last
                                end of the law-exposing every villain, high or low, Republican or
                                Democratic.

                            Mr. SHIELDS thought the amendment was preferable to the committee
                                recommendation.

                            [A message from the Governor announced his approval of Senator
                                Slack's bill 104.]

                            Mr. STEELE desired to know who was in fault in these swamp land
                                frauds; and we can do nothing more nor less than to appoint an
                                investigating committee, therefore he hoped the report of the
                                committee would be concurred in.

                            Mr. WAGNER would like to see this thing investigated to the fullest
                                extent. The people of his district are very much interested in it.
                                It is perfectly absurd to talk about the Attorney General
                                investigating this matter upon a salary of $1,000 a year; it is not
                                his business. He moved to recommit with instructions to appoint a
                                commission of three, of whom the Attorney General shall be one.

                            [Mr. Shoulders had leave of absence during the remainder of the
                                session-sick.]

                            Mr. MURRAY made an ineffectual motion yeas 8, nays 30to lay the
                                motion to recommit on the table.

                            Mr. STONE submitted instructions to amend by adding as follows: "to
                                be appointed by the Governor who are personally acquainted with the
                                localities and facts."

                            Mr. JONES submitted additional instructions that said committee shall
                                inquire and report the amount of swamp lands stolen by Democrats,
                                the amounts stolen by Republicans, &c.; which were laid on the
                                table.

                            The motion to recommit was agreed to.

                            
                                By Mr. HULL: From a majority of the Committee on
                                        Temperance-returning Senator Murray's bill 22-see
                                    page 30 of these Reports-recommending that it lie on the
                                    table.

                                By Mr. DICKINSON: From a minority-returning the bill [22]
                                    recommending passage with an amendment striking out from the
                                    enacting clause.
                            

                            By Mr. MURRAY. The minority report reports a substitute for the bill
                                I introduced, but covers about the same ground. The present license
                                law provides that notice of an application to take out license shall
                                be published in a newspaper; and they make the application for a
                                license but never pay for it. This bill provides that they shall
                                first pay in their $50 before the license is granted to them; and
                                where they sell in violation of law the $50 shall be taxed up
                                against the property wherein the liquor is sold.

                            On motion by Mr. LINE the minority report was laid on the table.

                            The majority report was then concurred in.

                            
                                 By Mr. DICKINSON: Temperance-returning
                                    petitions from Madison, Marshall and Monroe counties. While
                                    fully appreciating the high, charitable and philanthropic
                                    motives that impel the action of the petitioners, the committee
                                    believe legislative aid at this time would be futile to
                                    accomplish the end sought by them, therefore they think that any
                                    further legislation would be inexpedient.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON: Temperance-returning a
                                    resolution of inquiry concerning the penalty for the violation
                                    of sections 8 and 9 of the liquor law, with a report that no
                                    further legislation is necessary, recommending that it lie on
                                    the table.

                                By Mr. WOLFE: Printing-a minority report
                                    (the majority report was made last Tuesday) on the resolution of
                                    inquiry into the expediency of abolishing the office of State
                                    Printer, and letting the public printing to the lowest bidder,
                                    favorable thereto and recommending the passage of Senator
                                    March's bill 4.
                            

                            After discussion by Senators Mellett, March, Wagner, Wolfe,
                                Studabaker, Tarkington, Newcomb and Ray-

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB-yeas 25, nays 10-the minority report was
                                rejected.

                            And then (at 6 1/2 o'clock) on motion, the Senate took a recess till
                                7 1/2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        

                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.

                            The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a communication from the Auditor
                                of State, in answer to a Senate resolution relating to the number of
                                warrants issued and drawn upon the Colonization fund; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Finance.

                            Mr. MARCH introduced a bill [262] to amend sections 11 and 24 of an
                                act regulating the election and duties of State Librarian, approved
                                May 27, 1852; which was read and passed to the second reading.

                            The bills H. R. 30, 84, 100, 106, 140, 238, 64, 116, 243, 263, 325
                                and 328 were read and passed to the second reading. 



                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                                The following bills were read the second time, and referred to
                                    the appropriate committees:

                                
                                    Finance-H. R. 13, 161, 283,
                                            Committee on Printing's S. 248, and
                                        Senator March's 251.

                                    Judiciary-H. R. 52, 69, 42, 46, 81,
                                        Senators White's 243, Newcomb's 250, Wolfe's 254, Jones'
                                        256, and Wolfe's 258.

                                    Banks-H. R. 62, and Senator Cobb's
                                        257.

                                    County and Township Business-H. R. 76,
                                        and 173.

                                    Elections-Senator Johnson's 216.

                                    Roads and Highways-Senator Hull's
                                        246.

                                    Organization of Courts-Senator Ray's
                                        247.H. R. 324, Senator Ferguson's 244, Bearss' 249, and
                                        Cobb's 255, were ordered engrossed.

                                    Senator Conner's 252 was referred to a select committee of
                                        three, viz., Senators Conner, Line, and Beeson.

                                    Senator Conley's 253 was referred to a select committee of
                                        three, viz,: Senators Williams, March, and Ray.
                                

                            
                            

                            
                                NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                                The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the
                                    first reading :

                                By Mr. BLAIR: [263] to provide for the erection of a house of
                                    refuge for the reformation of juvenile offenders, and to repeal
                                    sections 3, 4, and 6 of an act to provide a site, system of
                                    government, and plans for the erection of a State House of
                                    Refuge for the correction and reformation of juvenile offenders,
                                    &c., approved March 3d, 1855.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON: [264] changing the time of holding the common
                                    pleas courts in Putnam county.

                                By Mr. MARCH: [265] to provide for the execution of conveyances
                                    by county auditors for school lands, where the certificate has
                                    not been properly assigned.

                                By Mr. CONLEY: [266] to fix the time of holding the circuit
                                    courts in Owen county.

                                By Mr. ODELL: [267] to authorize the board of commissioners of
                                    the several counties to make an allowance to sheriffs or other
                                    officers who may pursue and capture criminals or felons.

                                By Mr. NEWCOMB: [268] to provide for entering satisfaction of
                                    mortgages in the several counties of this State, executed by the
                                    State Bank of Indiana in said counties, when they have been
                                    satisfied.

                                Mr. MURRAY, from a Select Committee thereon, returned his sheep
                                    and dog bill 134, recommending passage, with amendment. The
                                    report was concurred in, and on his motion-the dog and sheep
                                    bills 133 and 134 were made the special order for two o'clock
                                    to-morrow.

                                Mr. MARCH offered the following :

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That the Attorney
                                                General be requested to report to the Senate as soon
                                                as practicable, whether in his opinion there is any
                                                defect in the act relative to salaries if public
                                                officers, approved March 5, 1859, by which such
                                                officers can legally avoid accounting to the Auditor
                                                of State, and paying iuto the State Treasury, all
                                                fees, emoluments, perquisites and gratuities
                                                received by them as provided in the third section of
                                                said act.
                                        
                                        

                                    
                                

                                 Which was adopted by consent.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                    returned his bills 68 and 69-see page 89 of these Reports
                                    recommending passage.

                                The bills and report were referred to the Finance
                                        Committee, on Mr. MELLETT'S motion.

                                Mr. TEEGARDEN, from the Committee on Benevolent
                                        Institutions, returned the resolution of inquiry
                                    concerning the erection of an. asylum for inebriates, with a
                                    report that it is inexpedient to legislate upon the subject in
                                    the present condition of the finances of the State. The report
                                    was concurred in.

                                Mr. ROBINSON, from the Committee on Claims,
                                    returned the petition of J. D. Stephenson, recommending that it
                                    lie on the table. 

                                The report was concurred in.

                                Mr. WOLFE offered the following:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That in view of the
                                                anticipated fact that the earnest protestations of
                                                the Democracy and other Union loving people, have
                                                compelled Mr. Lincoln to take a stand for
                                                compromise, as the only means of preserving the
                                                Union of the present adhering States, it is the duty
                                                of the Republican members of this Senate to
                                                reconsider and take back all their long coercion and
                                                anti-compromise speeches; and especially that
                                                portion of them in which they denounced the friends
                                                of compromise as traitors to the country seeing that
                                                such denunciations will likely include the
                                                Lincoln-Seward administration.
                                        
                                    
                                

                                Which was referred to the Committee on Federal
                                        relations, under the rule.

                                And then (at 9 1/2 o'clock) the Senate adjourned. 

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, February 28, 1861.
                        

                        The SPEAKER asked and obtained leave to introduce a bill [326] to revive
                            the act to legalize the doings and proceedings of the Alton, Mount
                            Carmel and New Albany Railroad Company, &c., and to change some
                            things in regard to the corporate powers thereof: [Changes the style to
                            the St. Louis and Louisville Railroad Company-gives them five years to
                            commence and 15 years to complete said road;]

                        Mr. Jenkinson: [32f] To amend the act to prohibit evidence of person of
                            one-eighth part or more of negro blood in cases where white persons are
                            parties in interest; which were passed to the second reading.

                        Mr. Gresham: [328] To amend the 4th section of the Common Pleas act of
                            March 5, '59, [fixing the terms in the counties of Washington, Clark,
                            Scott and Harrison.] This bill (the constitutional provision being
                            suspended for the purpose) was passed to the engrossment and third
                            reading, and read the third time and passed the House-yeas 89, nays 0.
                        
                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, MARCH 7, 1861
                        No. 20
                    

                    
                        

                        Mr. HEFFREN and Mr. HOWARD presented claims, which was referred without
                            reading.

                        A message from the Senate announced the passage of sundry bills.

                        Mr. Parrett: [329] To permit the removal of any free bank in the State of
                            Indiana from one place to another.

                        Mr. Randall: [330] To amend the 2d and 4th, and repeal the 3d section of
                            the act of March, 1859, fixing the prices of the public printing.

                        Mr. Fisher: [331] Requiring traveling merchants to take out license in
                            the county where they carry on business, and prescribing a penalty.

                        These bills were severally passed to the second reading.

                        Mr. BRANHAM had leave to submit a resolution, asking for the names of the
                            employees of the House, that they may be used in the specific
                            appropriation bill.

                        On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, the House took up the message in relation to
                            fees which should have gone into the treasury, and it was referred to
                            the Committee on Ways and Means.

                        Mr. FISHER, from the Select Committee thereon (by unanimous consent),
                            returned the Senate's Railroad bill [S. 31], with amendments of the
                            verbiage, and an additional section, providing that all property of said
                            company shall be liable for damages for stock killed by their engines,
                            &c.

                        The amendments were concurred in and ordered to be engrossed.

                        Mr. HEFFREN obtained leave to submit an order, which was adopted, that
                            the Judiciary Committee report to the House the last
                            day of the present session on which bills can be constitutionally
                            passed. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND
                                    MEANS.

                            Mr. FISHER returned Mr. Knowlton's bill [266] for the purchase of
                                certain volumes of Blackford's Reports. In view of the condition of
                                the treasury, the report recommends that the bill be laid on the
                                table.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. FORDYCE returned Mr. Kendrick's bill [194] to provide for the
                                sale of certain property (the Governor's house, and providing for
                                another)reporting, (in view of the embarrassed condition of the
                                Treasury and the country,) a recommendation that the bill be laid on
                                the table; which was concurred in.

                            He also returned his bill [200] to amend the 3d section of the act of
                                March 5, 1859, relative to the Sinking Fund, so as to authorize a
                                partial release of lands mortgaged pursuant to the provisions of
                                said act, and so as to authorize substitutions-recommending it
                                passage.

                            It was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. GIFFORD returned his bill [211] to authorize the superintendent
                                or other person having charge of any county asylum, to discharge
                                persons and apprentice minors, with an amendment of title, striking
                                out all after the word "asylum," and inserting " or county poor
                                house, in connection with the physician, and in certain cases with
                                the concurrence of the county commissioners, to discharge any
                                inmate;" and substituting new matter for the bill after the enacting
                                clause.

                            The amendments were concurred in, and so the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            He also returned Mr. Veatch's State Docket fee bill [247] with
                                amendments, verbal, and striking out the emergency clause; which
                                were concurred in, and the bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. FISHER, from the Committee on Banks, returned the bill [S. 86] to
                                amend the general banking law, with amendments and an additional
                                section-emergency.

                            Mr. GROVER. By the present law the treasurer is made custodian of the
                                bonds deposited; and when these bond are sold, the money is placed
                                entirely under the control of the auditor. I wish to amend the bill
                                so as to place this money in the hands of the treasurer; so that the
                                auditor shall draw his warrant for any amount of currency that may
                                be presented; but I have mislaid my amendment.

                            Mr. FISHER suggested that the gentleman incorporate his provision in
                                a separate bill.

                            Mr. GROVER. The additional bill was unnecessary. He moved to recommit
                                the bill, with instructions to amend, as he had indicated.

                            Mr. CRAIN explained the provisions of the bill, and the necessity for
                                its immediate passage to secure the note-holders of the late
                                Bloomington Bank.

                            Mr. BUNDY. The bill was demanded by  the interests of the State, and a
                                recommitment might be fatal.

                            The House refused to recommit, as well as a motion to lay on the
                                table; and then the amendments were concurred in and ordered to be
                                engsossed.

                            Mr. VEATCH desired to report from the Judiciary
                                    Committee an amendment to the Common Pleas
                                Act-proposing that that Court, by its own rules shall direct how the
                                business shall be docketed and disposed of, and when the jury shall
                                be summoned; but was cut off by the order for the daily
                                consideration of bills on the third and last reading.

                            Mr. Edson and Mr. Orr had leave of absence. 

                        
                        

                        
                            CONCEALED WEAPONS.

                            Mr. Prosser's bill [63] To repeal the act of February 21, 1859, to
                                prevent the carrying of concealed or dangerous weapons, and to
                                provide punishment therefor, coming up in order on the third
                                reading, it was rejected-yeas 14, nays 75.

                            Mr. Sherman's bill [140] To authorize the President of the Board of
                                Sinking Fund Commissioners (late President of the State Bank of
                                Indiana,) to make deeds and satisfy mortgages in certain cases
                                coming up, it was passed the final reading-yeas 92, nays 0.Mr.
                                Woods' bill [71] To amend section 14 . of the misdemeanor act of
                                June 14,1852, coming up-

                            Mr. WOODS said, a Senate bill of the same import was on the calendar;
                                and on his motion it was laid on the table.

                            Mr. Woodhull's bill [36] for relief of the heirs of Michael O'Brien,
                                coming up-

                            On motion of Mr. WOODHULL, it was laid on the table to give place to
                                a similar bill from the Senate.

                            Mr. Black's bill [100] To authorize township trustees to sign
                                certificates of purchase of saline lands which were purchased with
                                school funds by the inhabitants of school districts in Congressional
                                townships, for school house sites, coming up-it was passed the final
                                reading-yeas 80 nays 0.

                            Mr. McLean's bill [33] To protect the titles of purchasers of
                                railroads, &c., and to enable them to exercise corporate powers,
                                coming up-

                            On motion of Mr, McLEAN, it was laid on the table to give place to a
                                similar bill from the Senate.

                            Mr. Orr's fish bill [136] was laid on the table-a similar bill having
                                been defeated in the Senate.

                            Mr. McLean's bill [94] Touching the salary , of the common pleas
                                judges, (to be paid out of the county treasury,) coming up-

                            On motion of Mr. BUNDY, it was laid on the table. 

                        
                        

                        
                            COURTS OF CONCILIATION.

                            Mr. McClurg's bill [22] to repeal the act of June 11, 1852,
                                establishing Courts of Conciliation coming up-

                            Mr. McCLURG and Mr. BUNDY offered considerations in favor of its
                                passage.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN (Mr. Heffren in the chair) also spoke in favor of
                                the repeal of the act of 1852. Courts of conciliation were a
                                nuisance. 

                            Mr. PROSSER. More than half of the slander suits in Ms county had
                                been adjusted and settled in the Court of Conciliation. Was it an
                                effort of lawyers here to repeal this court.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. A public conviction was a better sanction of law than a
                                private composition. Courts of Conciliation were a secret
                                organization, akin to Knownothingism.

                            Mr. CAMERON opposed the repeal-giving examples-and appealing to the
                                constitutional provision. This was one of the best laws in the
                                statute book for settling slander cases.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. Would this repeal have any effect on the efforts to
                                conciliate our Southern fellow-citizens?

                            Mr. ROBERTS demanded the previous question, and under its force the
                                bill was rejected-yeas 37, nays 53.Mr. Prosser's bill [102] to amend
                                the third and fourth sections of the game law of February 26, 1857
                                [pheasants, quails, and prairie hens]coming up-

                            Mr. DOBBINS made an ineffectual motion to recommit, with instructions
                                to strike out all that relates to quails.

                            On motion of Mr. STOTSENBERG, it was laid on the table.

                            Mr. Woodhull's bill [106] to amend the 13th section of the
                                misdemeanor act of June 14, 1852-making it optional with the court
                                to send to the States' prison-coming up, it was passed the final
                                reading: yeas 57, nays 32.

                            Mr. Jones of Vermillion's bill [122] to organize a common pleas
                                district to bo composed of the counties of Vermillion, Parker, and
                                Putnam; to provide for the election of judge and district, attorney
                                thereof; to fix the terms and make writs, process, &c.,
                                returnable thereto, and declare when and how the same shall take
                                effect-coming up-it was rejected: yeas 44, nays 66.

                            The Judiciary Committee's bill [238] supplemental
                                to the act of March 5, 1859, requiring surviving partners to file
                                inventory, appraisement, and affidavit, with the clerk of the Court
                                of Common Pleas, and to report the liabilities of the firm-coming
                                up-it was passed the first reading-yeas 92, nays 0.

                            Mr. Brucker's bill [64] authorizing aliens to hold lands in the State
                                of Indiana, coming up [reciprocity act], it was passed the third and
                                last reading in the House-yeas 80, nays 0-with an amendment of title
                                inserting these words : "by devise or descent, and to sell and
                                alienate the same."

                            Mr. Prosser's bill [243] fixing the times of holding the Circuit
                                Courts in the First Judicial Circuit and repealing all laws
                                conflcting therewith; coming up[changing the time only in the
                                counties of Brown and Switzerland] it was passed the final reading-yeas 90, nays 0with an
                                amendment of title, making process returnable, &c.

                            Mr. Packard's Common Pleas bill [264] changing the terms in the
                                counties of Marshall, Elkhart, St. Joseph and Laporte-coming up-it
                                was passed the final reading-yeas 85, nays 1.

                            Mr. Cason's bill [116] to require manufacturers and dealers in patent
                                medicines to label their packages, &c., with the ingredients $20
                                penalty]-coming up-it was passed the final reading-yeas 82, nays
                                4-with an amendment of title: "prescribing, a penalty."

                            Mr. Stotsenberg's bill [30] to amend the 78th section of the Pactice
                                act[respecting a change of venue-with reference to the papers-where
                                more than one are in the same matter, and not all desiring the
                                change of venue]coming up-it was passed the final reading-yeas 83,
                                nays 0.

                            The SPEAKER laid before the House a communication from the Auditor of
                                State, transmitting in response to a resolution of the House, an
                                abstract of the reports from the county auditor's as to the amount
                                of fees received by them during the years 1859-60.

                            On motion by Mr. WILSON, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Ways and Means. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                             The Judiciary Committee's bill, No. 317, (taxing
                                bank stock on certificates) and Mr. Heffren's [318](where the
                                appraisers can't agree, a third may be called in)coming up on the
                                second reading-they were ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. Packard's insurance bill [320] increasing the board of trustees
                                of the Indiana University to eleven, three to reside in Monroe
                                county, &c., (with Mr. Dobbins' amendment, proposing James E.
                                Blythe for a trustee, instead of Foster,) was referred to the
                                    Committee on Corporations.

                            Mr. Bundy's bill [321] with Mr. Bluck's amendment, was referred to
                                the Committee on Roads.

                            Mr. Crain's bill [322] to repeal section 28 of,the railroad act of
                                May 11, '52-individual liability of stockholders-was referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            Mr. Wilson's bill [323] was referred to the Committee on
                                    Education. 



                            
                                REVENUE.

                                The Ways and Means Committee's revenue bill
                                    [H. R. 325]-15 cents on the $100 and 50 cents poll0was passed
                                    the second reading.

                                On motion by Mr. BRANHAM (the constitutional provision being
                                    suspended for the purpose), the bill was considered as
                                    engrossed. He said the bill contemplated nothing but the
                                    ordinary expenses of the State, and the repayment of the late
                                    loan of $75,090.

                                The bill was finally passed-yeas 81, nays 0.

                                Mr. HEFFREN submitted an order for a night session, which was
                                    adopted.

                                On motion by Mr. LANE, the order of business was suspended, and
                                    the House proceeded to the consideration of bills from the
                                    Senate.

                                The Michael O'Brien bill [S. 107] was read the first time ; and
                                    the election bill [S. 30] was read twice by title (under a
                                    suspension), and referred to the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary. 

                            
                            

                            
                                REPEAL OF THE NEW COUNTY ACT.

                                The Senate's amendment to the new county bill [H. R. 39] :
                                    "Provided that nothing herein contained shall bo so construed as
                                    to affect any county organized under existing laws," coming
                                    up-

                                Mr. EDSON proposed to concur with adding; "Nothing in this act
                                    shall be so construed as to affect any proceedings for the
                                    formation of the proposed new county of Bourbon;" which was laid
                                    on the table.

                                Mr. HEFFREN proposed to concur with adding these words : "or to
                                    affect proceedings for the purpose of forming new counties,
                                    where the petitioners have had, or now have their petitions
                                    pending in the Supreme Court." He disliked this rule of
                                    legislating men out of court.

                                On motion of Mr. PROSSER, it was laid on the table-yeas 62, nays
                                    24.

                                And then under the force of the previous question, the Senate's
                                    amendment was concurred in.

                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the House now returned to the
                                    consideration of bills on the third reading. 

                            
                            

                            
                                WIDOWS' EXEMPTION.

                                Mr. Edson's bill [435] to amend section 6th of the Assessment act
                                    of June 21, 1852, so as to exempt from taxation the personal
                                    property of widows where it does not exceed $300 in value-coming
                                    up-

                                Mr. JENKINSON moved ineffectually to lay it on the table-yeas 10,
                                    nays 73 : and then, under the pressure of the previous question,
                                    the bill was passed the final reading : yeas 72, nays 11.

                                Mr. Hurd's Common Pleas bill [296] (fixing the terms in the
                                    counties of Benton, White, Carroll, and Tippecanoe-but only
                                    changing the time in Benton county), was passed the final
                                    reading in the House : yeas 83, nays 1.

                                Mr. Jenkinson's bill, to enlarge the legal capacity of unmarried
                                    women, whose husbands are insane [gives them the same control of
                                    their property that widows have], was finally passed the House :
                                    yeas 77, nays 8.

                                Mr. Edson's bill [124] To cure defects in the acts of deputy
                                    clerks, (legalizing their acts,) was finally passed the
                                    House-yeas 78. nays 6.

                                Mr. Burgess' bill [115] To amend the first section of the act
                                    supplemental to the act of February 17, 1852, to exempt certain
                                    property from execution, approved March 5, 1859, (the wife may
                                    make out the schedule in the absence of the husband-to exempt
                                    the $300,) was passed the third and last reading in the
                                    House-yeas 87, nays 1-with an amendment of title, adding: "And
                                    to provide for the  filing
                                    of affidavits in the absence of the defendant. 
                            
                            

                            
                                WIDOWS' EXEMPTION AGAIN.

                                Mr. DOBBINS moved to reconsider the vote passing the widows'
                                    exemption bill [H. R. 135] desiring to amend so as to exclude
                                    widows owning real estate from its benefits.

                                Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, and Mr. FORD spoke for the
                                    re-consideration.

                                Mr. FRASIER made an ineffectual motion to lay the motion to
                                    reconsider on the table.

                                The motion to reconsider was agreed to; and the questson recurred
                                    on the final passage.

                                On motion by Mr. WOOHULL, the words "real and" were inserted
                                    before the words " personal" in the bill (by unanimous consent;)
                                    and then the bill was again finally passed-yeas 76. nays 4-with
                                    an amendment of title.

                                Mr. Packard's bill [114] To amend the first section of the
                                    Manufacturing, Mining, Mechanical and Chemical Corporation's Act
                                    of May 20, 1852, so as to provide that such corporations may
                                    supply motive power or cities with water, was considered and
                                    passed the 3d reading-yeas 73, nays 10.

                                Mr. Henricks' bill [77] To amend the 6th section of the act of
                                    May 22, 1835, to incorporate the St. Joseph Iron Company, and to
                                    repeal certain sections thereof, coming up-

                                Mr. HENRICKS said: At an early day, when the St. Joseph country
                                    was first settled, that river was used for carrying off produce
                                    : and for that reason, this Company, by their charter, was
                                    required to construct and keep up a lock around their dam. Since
                                    that day, a raileosd has been built along the entire length of
                                    the river. Navigation had been suspended; the locks had gone out
                                    of use for the last eight or nine years. And the object of the
                                    bill is to do away with the necessity to keep up these locks,
                                    since there is no further commercial necessity for them.

                                The bill passed the House-yeas 77, nays 3.

                                The Judiciary Committee's bill [129] To amend
                                    the 178th section of the decedent's estates' act of June 17,
                                    1852, (leaves out the words "of the State,") was passed the
                                    final reading-yeas 81, nays 5>

                                The SPEAKER requested Mr. Crain to be presens and take the Chair
                                    at 7 o'clock for the night session.

                                On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, the House took a recess till 7 o'clock. 

                            
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.

                            The SPEAKER [Mr. Crain in the Chair] called to order at 7 o'clock P.
                                M.

                            The bills from the Senate numbered 20, 57, 65, 73, 76, 81, 82, 88,
                                93, 96, 98, 99, 101, 106, 117, 136, 138, 171, 203, 221, were
                                severally passed to the second reading. 


                            
                                REPORTS OF THE STATE BOARD OP
                                    AGRICULTURE.

                                Mr. FISHER, by unanimous consent, submitted a joint resolution.
                                    He said from examining into the expenses of the lie Printing,
                                    that the cost of printing the Report of the State Board of
                                    Agriculture amount" to about $9,000 a volume. His joint
                                    resolution was numbered 34, to discontinue the publication of
                                    the State Board of Agriculture.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to refer it to the Select Committee on
                                    Printing.

                                Mr. HEFFREN hoped it would not be refer red. Let us stop each
                                    case of abuse as we find it-at once.

                                Mr. PROSSER referred to the publication three years ago of
                                    reports from the Superintendent of Public Instruction, and the
                                    Documentary journal-costing this State $10,000 which was not
                                    worth one cent after they were published-as a most outrageous
                                    practice upon the Treasury. Let us clean this thing out:
                                    ("consent") he did not care whether Democrat or Republican were
                                    involved He was in favor of this two years ago.

                                Mr. FISHER. In presenting this resolution, he did not wish to be
                                    understood as making any charge of corruption. The law requires
                                    the State Board of Agricultute to make a report; and this made
                                    it a sort of State affair-showing its transactions, expenditures
                                    &c. He was not aware of any law requiring the publication of
                                    these reports; but they were placed in the hands of the public
                                    printer, and generally published from a year and a half to two
                                    years after date, when they have become entirely valueless. He
                                    regarded it simply as a useless expense, and wished to stop
                                    it.

                                Messrs. Davis, Black, Frasier and Branham spoke in favor of the
                                    resolution ; and then the motion to refer was lost, and the
                                    joint resolution adopted-yeas 70, nays 0. 

                            
                            

                            
                                FREE BANKS IN LIQUIDATION.

                                Mr. NEBEKER, from the Committee on Banks, (by
                                    consent,) returned his bill [209] To amend section 9 of the
                                    general banking act of March 23, 1855, so as to make disposition
                                    of certain moneys arising from bank deposits, to secure their
                                    circulation; and to provide for the redemption of their
                                    notes-with an amendment, striking out. after the word "to wit"
                                    in the 44th line, and inserting provisions requiring the Auditor
                                    of State, at the end of five years after a free bank shall have
                                    been closed on account of protest of their notes, to deposit
                                    what may remain in his hands of their security bonds, with the
                                    Commissioners of the Sinking Fund, who shall thereafter continue
                                    to redeem their still outstanding circulation at the rate per
                                    cent, of discount which their securities will justify, &c.,
                                    with other provisions. He said there were now in the hands of
                                    the Auditor some $17,000 of the security bonds of the broken
                                    stock banks; and that their circulation thereupon was being
                                    redeemed by him at the rate of about five per cent, per annum.
                                    He proceeded to show that these dead free banks had no right  to these security bonds:
                                    that they belong to their bill holders. But since these could
                                    not all be found, the bonds, he thought, ought to go into the
                                    State Treasury. The Committee on Banks, however, had overruled
                                    him in this, and instructed him to report that they shall go
                                    into the Sinking Fund. The small amount of notes now redeemed,
                                    indicates that they must he nearly all lost. The best thing that
                                    could be done with the remainder of these security bonds is to
                                    throw them into the School fund.

                                Mr. BUNDY. What right has the Sinking fund to these bonds. They
                                    ought to go again into the hands of their owners, the banks, if
                                    they will give security to the Auditor in doubble the amount of
                                    their liabilities. He submitted that the bill holders would be
                                    amply protected by these banks filing the required security with
                                    the Auditor.

                                Mr. FISHER. The Auditor, he supposed, was using these security
                                    bonds, and putting the proceeds of their interest into his own
                                    pocket. He understood that this bill does not touch those frees
                                    banks that have paid their notes at par. If it did, it was
                                    wrong. For all such were unquestionably entitled to the balance
                                    of their security bonds.

                                Mr. HEFFREN. What claim had the State on this money? Was it to
                                    be, that the banks shall first swindle the people, and then the
                                    State swindle the banks, and give their money to the school
                                    fund?

                                Mr. BRANHAM considered that the balance of the security bonds
                                    ought to be distributed amongst those who have lost by the
                                    depreciation of the bank notes.

                                Mr. FISHER. The difficulty would be to find then.

                                Mr. WOODHULL. The banker lost when his bonds depreciated. 

                                Mr. HOPKINS. Did he not save himself by holding his bills
                                    receivable?

                                Mr. WOODULL. If a man go into banking he does it for the purpose
                                    of making money legitimately, &c.

                                Mr. PROSSER. This overplus of security bonds belonged to the
                                    counties on account of taxes, which, so far as lie knew, they
                                    had never been able to collect. The tax bill of Brown county
                                    against the Bank of Nashville was over $600. This money belonged
                                    to the counties, and the State had no right to take it from
                                    them. He moved to recommit the bill.

                                Mr. EDSON. The Supreme Court have decided that you ean't tax the
                                    capital stock of a bank, but only the individual
                                    stockholder.

                                Mr. GRESHAM considered that the State held these bonds as an
                                    agent to secure the bill-holders; and could hold or dispose of
                                    it in no other way.

                                Mr. FISHER, satisfied that the bill was not what the committee
                                    designed, was willing to recommit it.

                                It was accordingly recommitted to the Committee on
                                        Banks.

                                Mr. BINGHAM, from the Committee on Organization of
                                        Courts, returned the bill [240] fixing the time of
                                    holding Courts in the 11th Circuit, &c., and suggesting
                                    amendments and the unconstitutionality of the third section, he
                                    requested that it be referred to a select committee of
                                    representatives from the counties proposed to be affected by it.
                                    It was so ordered.

                                He also returned Mr. Stevenson's guardian and ward bill [301]
                                    requiring the guardian to make his application to sell real
                                    estate in the county where the land is situated; and it was
                                    ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. NEWMAN returned Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's Twelfth Circuit
                                    bill [244], with an amendment taking one week from White and
                                    giving it to Newton county ; which was concurred in, and so the
                                    bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                                He also returned the Common Pleas docketing business bill, and it
                                    was ordered to be engrossed.

                                He also returned Mr. Hopkins' canal bridge bill [248], which was
                                    ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. PARRETT, from the Committee on the Organization of Courts,
                                    returned Mr. Frasier's 17th Circuit bill [183], and his own
                                    Circuit bill [201], and they were indefinitely postponed ; and
                                    in lieu thereof, he reported a new bill [332] To create the 17th
                                    Judicial Circuit; to provide for the election of judges and
                                    prosecutor thereof; to fix the times of holding its terms,
                                    &c.; and to make provision for the terms in the 10th
                                    Circuit. The 17th Circuit to embrace the counties of Dekalb,
                                    Steuben, Lagrange, Noble, and Allen, set off from the 10th
                                    Circuit. The bill was passed to the third reading. 
                            
                            

                            
                                SWAMP LAND FRAUDS.

                                Mr. MOODY, from the Committee on Swamp Lands,
                                    returned the resolution for the appointment of a committee to
                                    inquire into the alleged frauds on the swamp land fund, and upon
                                    considerations submitted in writing, the committee report a
                                    series of resolutions captioned: "A concurrent resolution,
                                    providing for a joint select committee, two on the part of the
                                    House and one on the part of the Senate, to inquire into the
                                    alleged frauds upon the swamp land fund, and investigate the
                                    same;" with power to sit in the vacation of the General
                                    Assembly, either at Indianapolis or at the county seat of any
                                    county in the State, and with power to send for persons and
                                    papers. To report to the Governor as often as they shall
                                    complete the investigation of any one county, in order that the
                                    Attorney General may bring suit. Said committee shall also have
                                    power to employ a clerk and messenger, at $3 per day.

                                Mr. HEFFREN understood that the Senate had passed the same
                                    resolution this afternoon, and suggested the propriety of
                                    waiting till that resolution shall come down, and save going
                                    over it twice.

                                Mr MOODY. The two committees-the  committee of the House, and the
                                    committee of the Senate-have conferred together. We held a
                                    meeting last night; and it was then understood between the
                                    members of both committees, that these resolutions should be
                                    reported to the House to-day; and if the House passed them, they
                                    would then recommend to the Senate the same resolutions. I was
                                    not before aware that any such action had been taken, and I am
                                    not yet aware that any action has been taken in the Senate which
                                    covers this ground. But if the same action has been taken there,
                                    it certainly can do no harm to pass these resolutions. I
                                    suppose, sir, that these resolutions will take but little
                                    discussion. The fact that frauds have been committed upon this
                                    fund, nobody doubts on denies. There is an imperative necessity
                                    for investigation. The onry question is, how the proposed
                                    investigation shall be made cheapest, and at the same time in a
                                    thorough and satisfactory manner. I said the necessity for
                                    investigation is imperative. I cannot think that any gentleman
                                    on either side of the House doubts that necessity. I know that
                                    those directly interested in the question demand a thorough
                                    investigation; and they will not excuse this Legislature if they
                                    do not provide for some effectual investigation of the whole
                                    matter. It would prove to be not only an expensive, but almost
                                    an impossible, matter to investigate these frauds by a committee
                                    sitting at Indianapolis. Many of the facts are upon paper in the
                                    books of the officers of the different counties. The papers have
                                    to be examined. They have to be at hand when the witnesses are
                                    axamined. These are the foundations of the vouchers, in the
                                    offices here, and in the books and papers of the Commissioners
                                    and Engineers in the counties where these frauds have been
                                    committed. Some objections like this have been suggested to me;
                                    that, inasmuch as this magnificent fund is gone-has been sunk
                                    beyond recovery, it is useless to make investigation. Let me say
                                    to those who urge that view, that, if it does cost money,
                                    without any hope of recovery, still it is the imperative duty of
                                    the State, in order to vindicate her honor as well as her
                                    interest, to make this investigation. For myself, I can say I am
                                    fully convinced that there can be sufficient recovered to more
                                    than trebly pay the expense of the investigations. I know that
                                    there are pretended titles in my county, that never can be
                                    sustained in any court. That anything can now be saved for the
                                    common school fund, I am inclined to doubt; because the very
                                    provision which gave us this fund, provided that the revenues
                                    arising from the sales of the swamp lands, should be first used
                                    in reclaiming the land by ditching. Many a man has purchased his
                                    thousands of acres of these lands, with the express provision
                                    that it should be ditched; and they have been wronged in this,
                                    and they feel the wrong, and will be forward to expose it.

                                Mr. HEFFREN suggested that the proper course would be to make the
                                    resolutions special order.

                                On motion by Mr. BUNDY, the consideration of the resolutions was
                                    postponed and made a special order for Monday 10 o'clock.

                                The SPEAKER announced the special Committee on the llth Circuit
                                    Court bill [240] according to order above written, viz.: Messrs
                                    Hall, Fisher, Crain, Smith of Miami, Knowlton and Thompson.

                                The House adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            FRIDAY, March 1, 1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. BEESON the reading of yesterday's journal was dispensed
                            with-except that portion embracing the proceedings on expunging the
                            minority report of the Committee on Printing.

                        Mr. WOLFE moved to amend the journal by inserting the minority report
                            itself in the place where it is said the report was made.

                        The PRESIDENT. The motion to correct the journal in that way is out of
                            order. The proper mode would be to reconsider the vote by which the
                            report was rejected. If it is the disposition of the Senate to retrace
                            its steps, the only way it can do it would be to reconsider its action
                            by which the report was rejected, and not, by correcting the
                            journal.

                        Mr. STUDABAKER appealed from this decision.

                        Mr. MURRAY moved to lay the appeal on the table.

                        This motion was agreed to-yeas 26, nays 16.

                        Mr. FERGUSON moved to suspend the rules that he might call up the bill
                            [H. R. 828]. changing the times of holding courts in his district.

                        Mr. WAGNER made an ineffectual motion-yeas 17, nays 25-to lay this motion
                            on the table.

                        Mr. FERGUSON earnestly appealed to the Senate in favor of his motion.

                        After discussion-

                        Mr. MELLETT demanded the previous question.

                        The demand was seconded by 26 Senators; the motion was agreed to-yeas 27,
                            nays 18 the bill H. R. 328 read the second time, and referred to
                            Senators Ferguson, Anthony and Wolfe.

                        Mr. TURNER presented a petition from citizens of Newton county,
                            protesting against the passage of a bill to provide for the removal of
                            county seats where county buildings have not been erected, &c.,
                            which was referred to the Committee on County and Township
                                Business. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES

                             Were made and concurred in, as follows:

                            

                                By Mr. MELLETT: Finance-returning Senator
                                    March's bill 251-see page of these Reports-recommending passage
                                    with amendment.

                                By Mr. MILLER: Education-returning Senator
                                    Turner's bill 198-see page 243-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. TARKINGTON: Education-returning his
                                    bill 227-see page 267-recommending passage.
                                

                                 By Mr. LINE: Education-returning Senator
                                    Wilson's bill 75-see page 96 of these reports-recommending
                                    passage with amendments.

                                By Mr. ANTHONY: Education-returning Senator
                                    Tarkington's bill 225-see page 267-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. TARKINGTON: Benevolent
                                    Institutions-referred to the Finance
                                        Committee, without reading.

                                By Mr. DeHART: Printing-returning Senator
                                    March's bill [4] abolishing the office of State Printer, and
                                    proposing to let the printing out to the lowest bidder-with a
                                    lengthy adverse report thereon.

                            

                            Mr. MURRAY moved to concur in the report with an amendment
                                instructing the Committee on Printing to report an amendment,
                                reducing the compensation of the State printer 15 per cent on the
                                prices now paid.

                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to amend by reducing the present prices 30 per
                                cent.

                            Mr. MURRAY. While steadily opposing letting out the public printing
                                to the lowest bidder, I have been in favor of bringing down the
                                prices paid to that officer to an economical standard, and within
                                the means of our revenues. I am satisfied from my knowledge of the
                                printing business-I am a practical printer; went at the business
                                when I was 11 years old, and never got out till I was 25that should
                                my amendment be adopted, the State Printer would have the best and
                                the most remunerative office in the State of Indiana.

                            On motion by Mr. WOLFE the report was laid on the table, that he
                                might have time to submit a minority report.

                            
                                By Mr. STEELE: Finance-returning Senator
                                    Claypool's bill 121-see page 163 of these Reports-recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. CONLEY: Select Committee-returning the bill H. R.
                                    86-see page 99 of these Reports-recommending passage with
                                    amendment.
                            

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to strike out all that part of the bill which gives
                                justices jurisdiction in cases of fraud to the amount of $100 00.Mr.
                                RAY was in favor of the amendment.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER the amendment was laid on the table. He then
                                demanded the previous question, and the demand being sustained by
                                the Senate, the committee report was concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS the bill was considered as engrossed and
                                read the third time.

                            Mr. BEARSS demanded the previous question, and the demand being
                                sustained by 28 Senators, the bill was finally passed by yeas 82,
                                nays 13.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: From the Joint Committee appointed to propose a plan
                                for the liquidation of the State debt, submitting a report
                                recommending that the commissioners of the Sinking Fund be
                                authorized and instructed to invest that fund in the five per cent,
                                bonds of the State; that the present levy of two cents on the $100
                                00 be continued for the year 1861, and that a levy of five cents on
                                the $100 be made for each succeeding year till the debt is paid;that
                                the first debt paid be the $303,000 due the Common School Fund.

                            [Mr. COBB offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                directing the doorkeeper to furnish each Senator with $2 worth of
                                postage stamps.]

                            [Mr. CONLEY offered a resolution, limiting speeches to five minutes
                                on any one question, except by unanimous consent. Ineffectual
                                motions were made by Mr. LINE to insert "10;" by Mr. COBB to'insert
                                "20;"'by Mr. RAY to insert " 1;" and by Mr. WOLFE to insert "15."
                                Under the operations of the previous question, the resolution was
                                adopted.]

                            
                                By Mr. CONNER: Corporations-returning the
                                    bill [S.71] To incorporate street railroad
                                    companies-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Finance-returning his bill
                                    208-see page 244-recommending passage.
                            

                            Mr. WAGNER moved to concur in the report with an amendment striking
                                out all that relates to county treasurers. This bill cuts down the
                                amount from 2 per cent, over $15,000, to 1 per cent. My county
                                treasurers get none too much money, and the bill passed yesterday
                                decreases that amount, while this bill proposes to still further
                                decrease. There is no justice or statesmanship in the law, and I do
                                most earnestly protest against it.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. The amendment operates upon large counties, while in
                                small counties it operates in the smallest possible way. It will not
                                operate oppressively upon any of the smaller counties. 1 presume
                                there is no small county it can affect more than $100. If this bill
                                is adopted, the treasurer will then be the best paid officer in the
                                county.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON had no objection to the passage of the bill.

                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the motion to concur with an amendment was
                                laid on the table-yeas 23, nays 18.

                            On motion by Mr. STONE, the Committee report was concurred in-yeas
                                22, nays 17 with an amendment providing that nothing shall be paid
                                to county treasurers for paying out the county tax, whether county
                                orders or other funds. 

                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            The following bills were introduced, and severally passed the first
                                reading :

                            By Mr. WAGNER: [209] To re-district the State of Indiana for the
                                purpose of electing members of the Congress of the United States of
                                America.

                            By Mr. WAGNER: (270) Creating a common pleas district of certain
                                counties therein named, (Benton, Newton, Jasper and White,) and
                                providing for the appointment and election of Judges and'
                                Prosecuting Attorneys thereof.

                            By Mr. LANDERS : (271) To amend section 1 of an act to provide for
                                the election and qualification of justices of the peace, and
                                prescribing their duties in civil cases.

                            By Mr. WAGNER: (272) To enable county commissioners to remove county
                                seats in certain cases.

                            (Leave of absence was obtained for Senator O'Brien during the
                                remainder of the session. 

                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            The following bills were read the second time, and referred to
                                appropriate Comittees:
                            

                            

                                Judiciary-Senator March's 165, Newcomb's
                                    268, and the bills H. R. 30,106, 238, 64.

                                Claims-Senator DeHart's 267.

                                Education-The bill H. E. 100.

                                Finance-The bill H. R, 116, 325.

                                Banks-The bill H. K. 160.

                                Organization of Courts-The bill H. R.
                                    243.

                                Senator Hamilton's 260, to a Select Committee, viz: Senators
                                    Hamilton, March and Johnson,

                                Senator Conley's 266, to a Select Committee, viz: Senators
                                    Conley, Johnson and Wilson.

                                The bill H. E. 84, to a Select Committee, viz: Senators
                                    Steele, Wilson and March.

                                The bill H. E. 263 to a Select Committee, viz: Senators
                                    Miller, Teegarden and Murray.

                                Senators Bearss' 261, March's 262, Blair's263, and John son's
                                    264 were ordered engrossed.
                            

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            The PRESIDENT announced the order for this hour to be the
                                consideration of the dog and sheep bills S. 138 and S. 134.

                            On motion by Mr. HULL, the special order was postponed till 3
                                o'clock.

                            The bills H. R. 77, 114, 124, 129, 114, 135, 139, and 126 were read
                                the first time, and passed to the 2d reading.

                            The House joint resolution, (H. R. 34) discontinuing the publication
                                of the State Agricultural Reports, was agreed to by yeas 39, nays
                                0.Senator Claypool's bill-see page 163 of these reports-coming up in
                                order, it was read the third time.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL explained his bill. It simply provides what the law of
                                1855 provides for all free banks.

                            Mr. RAY opposed the passage of this bill. He thought the bank should
                                not be allowed to recover the surplus money deposited with the State
                                officers until all the bill holders had been amply satisfied.

                            Mr. STEELE. If he did not regard the security as sufficient to the
                                bill holders of outstanding notes, he should vote against the
                                bill.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to recommit with instructions to insert the words,
                                " provided the same was redeemed at par."

                            Mr. HAMILTON. This money in the hands of the bankers with double
                                security, would be more safe than in the hands of the State
                                officer.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL made an ineffectual motion-yeas 19, nays 20-to lay the
                                motion to recommit on the table.

                            Mr. CRAVEN submitted farther instructions to amend so as to
                                appropriate all these moneys on hand to the school fund of the
                                State.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL thought these moneys had much batter be in the school
                                fund than in the hands of the Auditor of State.

                            Mr. CONNER. This bill appears to be a just proposition, but the first
                                amendment proposed defeats its object. The last amendment offered is
                                manifestly not right; it would be an act of great injustice to
                                stockholders were these monies placed in the school fund.

                            Mr. LANDERS would be satisfied, where banks have redeemed their notes
                                dollar for dollar, to let them file their securities, and take away
                                this money from the State officer; but we ought to have a law making
                                a further dividend. He hoped this matter would be referred.

                            The motion to recommit was agreed to by yeas 20, nays 17.

                            Mr. Craven's instructions were rejected.

                            The PRESIDENT now announced the consideration of the bills S. 133 and
                                S. 134-see page 184 of these Reports-and they were read the third
                                time.

                            Mr. Murray's 134 was first considered.

                            Mr. WOLFE moved to recommit the bill for the purpose of amending it
                                by striking out that part in relation to paying the surplus of the
                                dog license money into the school fund.

                            Mr. LINE submitted further instructions to amend by striking out 50
                                cents and inserting 25 cents, and making the operations of the bill
                                less complicated in its details.

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT the motions to recommit were laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. MURRAY. This bill is founded upon the law in force in
                                Massachusetts and in Wisconsin-xcept some rigorous and objectionable
                                features which I threw out. It provides that it shall be the duty of
                                every man in the township to get out a license for the dog or dogs
                                he owns from the township trustee at the rate of 50 cents; and the
                                duty of the assessor, in order to make this thing sure, to take the
                                number of dogs in the township, with their owners names, and return
                                that list to the trusteo; and the duty of the trustee to take this
                                list and compare it with the licenses issued, and whenever he
                                ascertains there are men in the township owning dogs not licensed,
                                it is his duty to prosecute them. This tax money is set apart to pay
                                the damage sustained in the killing or maiming of sheep by dogs; and
                                if there is any surplus it is turned over to the school fund. 

                            Mr. WOLFE opposed the bill.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN. Mr. President, this is a matter in which the people I
                                have the honor to represent on this floor, have a vital interest;
                                and the wool-growing interest of the State demands of this
                                Legislature the passage of an effective law to protect this
                                interest. This or some other bill should most assuredly pass this
                                session. Not only the wool-growing interest demands it, but the
                                towns and cities demand relief. The number of worthless dogs kept in
                                cities give just cause for the appeals made to this Legislature for
                                relief. Especially are they dangerous and costly to cities during
                                the prevalence of hydrophobia, when dog pelters are in good demand
                                at no trifling cost to tax payers of towns and cities. I hope the
                                bill will be permitted to pass.

                            Mr.ODELL moved to recommit, with instructions to amend, so as to
                                allow any person to- own and keep one dog exempt from taxation, and
                                any person owning more than one shall pay $1 each. 

                            

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, this motion was laid on the table, on a
                                division; affirmative 17, negative 15.

                            Mr. MELLETT demanded the previous question, and the demand being
                                sustained by 26 Senators, the bill was rejected by yeas 17, nays
                                22.

                            Mr. BEESON. I voted in opposition to the bill just defeated, not that
                                I am opposed to a measure of that kind, but I think it would be too
                                cumbersome. This bill 133 makes a simple and plain proposition. The
                                first section provides that all dogs found wandering from the
                                premises of their owners are considered nuisances, and persons are
                                privileged to kill them, except in incorporated cities. The second
                                section provides that within the limits of incorporated cities, the
                                corporation may license dogs to run at large. Section third proposes
                                that each sheep-owner who has suffered by dogs shall be entitled to
                                two-thirds of the value of his sheep killed or injured, to be paid
                                out of the county treasury. I look upon this us one of the best
                                features of the bill, not only as a wool-growing farmer, but as a
                                tax-paying farmer. For wherever this kind of damage is perpetrated
                                upon my sheep, I feel an interest in lessening the animals that
                                committed the depradation. Go into my county, and you will see that
                                three-fourths of these animals are owned by persons that never pay a
                                tax-not even a poll tax. Why: there are more dogs than sheep in my
                                county. I hope the bill may pass without amendment.

                            Mr. MURRAY. I desired to offer some proposition to encourage the
                                wool-growing interest of the State, and am sorry to see a
                                disposition in the Senate to encourage the raising of dogs instead
                                of sheep. I cannot vote for a law which would authorize my neighbor
                                to come into the road in front of my house and shoot down my dog.
                                This bill provides the payment for damage to sheep by dogs shall be
                                paid out of the county treasury; and I cannot vote for such a clause
                                as that.

                            Mr. CONLEY, by consent, amended the bill by adding an emergency
                                clause.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I voted against the dog bill awhile ago, but feel
                                disposed to favor this one. He also amended the bill, by consent, by
                                striking out the word "two-thirds" and inserting in lieu thereof the
                                words "one-half."

                            Mr. WAGNER. This is a commercial, not a personal interest, in the
                                State of Indiana, and the interests of the State suffer for the want
                                of a law protecting wool-growing. I would not draft such a bill as
                                this, but I will vote for it as an entering wedge.

                            Mr. COBB. Legislators should look at matters of this kind in a
                                practical view. Too many local interests are involved in this State,
                                for the purposes of local legislation. While we protect the
                                wool-growing interests of the State, we should not pass by other
                                interests-the poultry interests, for example. In the northern
                                portion of the State we have many hills infested by foxes, weasels,
                                &c., and we keep packs of hounds to protect our poultry from
                                them. If this bill passes, the dogs which we keep would be killed by
                                any person who may choose, whenever he strays from home ; and there
                                is nothing that would create greater strife than such an act as
                                this.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL was not willing to protect one interest at the expense
                                of another, although he desired to see the wool-growing interest
                                fostered. This bill is wrong in principle. He moved to recommit the
                                bill with, instructions to strike out all that part of the bill
                                which has reference to paying money out of the county treasury. He
                                would vote for the bill with this clause stricken out. 

                            Mr. MILLER, This bill looks to me like a proposition to sack the
                                treasury. Let there be undeniable proof that the sheep is killed by
                                dogs. If you bring in a proposition to pay for all chickens killed
                                by weasels, it would be hooted out; but it is upon the same
                                principle as is proposed in this bill.

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, the motion to recommit was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. WAGNER moved to recommit the bill to a select committee of three,
                                with instructions to strike out all that relates to paying money out
                                of the county treasury.Mr. LINE. This is a step in advance of any
                                legislation yet attempted in favor of the wool-growing interest of
                                the State. Let the bill be amended as suggested and it works well;
                                further legislation can be made.

                            The motion to recommit was agreed to, and the PRESIDENT made the
                                committee to consist of Senators Wagner, Line, and Beeson.

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, his bill [114] for the relief of borrowers
                                of the sinking fund, &c.-see page 266 of these Reports-was read
                                the third time. 

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. This bill refers now solely to sinking fund loans. It
                                gives borrowers till 1863 to commence paying off their loans, and
                                four years from that time to close accounts. All the objectionable
                                features being removed, I suppose there will be no very formidable
                                objection to the passage of the bill.

                            Mr. WOLFE. I am opposed to the proposition. I think it is wrong,
                                unfair, and unequitable to the people of Indiana. It is in direct
                                conflict with the law of 1859. The borrowers of this fund should pay
                                up their indebtedness, as well as any other class of borrowers in
                                the State.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. Some of these loans have been out for 25 years, and
                                there has not been a session of the Legislature for many years but
                                what a relief law has been passed. This bill looks to a withdrawal
                                of this fund from the people who now have it, and I hope the passage
                                of this bill will not be opposed.

                            Mr. MARCH. I believe this bill is well drawn, and that it is to the
                                interest of the State, and of these funds, that the bill should
                                pass. 
                            

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. I object to the feature of the bill extending the
                                time, but I propose as a compromise, to recommit the bill with
                                instructions to amend by striking out "1863" and inserting
                                "1862."

                            Mr. WAGNER. By the provisions of this bill, the entire sinking fund
                                will be drawn in in six years, and I submit to the Senate that is
                                soon enough. If the bill is recommitted, it will have to be
                                re-written, because the provision runs all through it, and it will
                                be three or four'days before it can be gotten back here. I hope the
                                motion will not prevail.

                            On motion by Mr. HULL-yeas 37, nays 13-the motion to recommit was
                                laid on the table.

                            The bill was then finally passed by yeas 29, nays 13.

                            Senator Newcomb's bill 115-see page 163-was read the third time.

                            Mr. WAGNER, This is simply a bill to follow the other one, making
                                provision with regard to mortgages, &c.

                            The bill finally passed: yeas 33, nays 7.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Select Committee thereon, returned Senator
                                Beeson's dog and sheep bill 133, with amendments, striking out all
                                that relates to paying money out of the county treasury.

                            Mr. MURRAY. This bill does not meet my approbation. It gives an
                                opportunity, where a man has a good watch dog, for a thief to kill
                                him; and a neighbor who has a spite against a neighbor, to kill his
                                dog, which he values more than his horse. I earnestly protest
                                against it. 

                            The Committee report was concurred in.

                            Mr. SLACK. This bill provides for and against discrimination country
                                dogs.

                            Mr. RAY. The effect of such a law as this would be to make a war of
                                the races, and I shall have to vote against the bill because of the
                                considerations urged by the gentleman from Elkhart [Mr. Murray.]

                            The bill failed for want of a constitutional majority-yeas 21, nays
                                15.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, March 1, 1861.
                        

                        Mr. JENKINSON made an ineffectual motion to take up his bill [221],
                            authorizing notaries public to solemnize marriage, and refer it to the
                                Committee on the Judiciary. 

                        
                            CLAIMS.

                            Mr. SLOAN, from the Committee on Claims, returned
                                the claim of H. C. Carter for $21 for ropes and fixtures for raising
                                the flag on the dome of the Capitol; and the claim of George Sayits
                                for $14 80, for service as a witness before the Bank Frauds
                                Investigating Committee in 1857-recommending their allowance : which
                                reports were referred to the Committee on Ways and
                                    Means. 

                            He also reported against the claim of N. P. Cunningham for $40, paid
                                to some person claiming to be a clerk of the Committee on
                                    Swamp Lands upon the certificate of the chair man :
                                which was concurred in.

                            On motion of Mr. DOBBINS, the vote by which Mr. Gray's claim was
                                disallowed, was reconsidered and referred again to the Committee on
                                Claims.

                            On motion by Mr. FERGUSON, the vote on Mr. Valentine's claim was
                                reconsidered, and it was also recommitted. 

                            Mr. GRESHAM, from the Committee on Military
                                    Affairs, returned Mr. Heffren's Militia Reorganization
                                bill [146] recommending its indefinite postponement: which was
                                concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.

                            Mr. HURD, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned the petition of S. H. Floyd, for
                                the protection of property from injury bo hunting parties in
                                inclosed fields : recommending that it be laid on the table.

                            Mr. LEE returned Mr. Frasier's bill [284], to amend sections 1, 2,
                                and 3 of the act of March 6, 1855, to provide for the relocation of
                                county scats, and for the disposition of groonds used for county
                                seats, &c.: a majority of the committee recommending that it be
                                laid on the table.

                            These reports were concurred in.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The bill provides, that where two-thirds desire it, they
                                may relocate, &c.; and where the county buildings have become
                                old, it authorizes the Commissioners to condemn them, and take their
                                proceeds and build new ones on other grounds designated by
                                two-thirds, &c.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, hoped the report would be concurred in. The
                                committee had had the matter before them for 10 days, and considered
                                it well. They had been lobbied with and humbugged more for this bill
                                than for any other bill of the session. It would give too much power
                                to the county commissioners. He spoke generally against the
                                bill.

                            Mr. HEFFREN replied.

                            Mr. NEBEKER supported the report.

                            The report was concurred in, and accordingly the bill was laid on the
                                table. 

                        
                        

                        
                            GAME LAW.

                            Mr. LEE, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Knowlton's [278]-supplemental
                                to the game law[shall not take game on the lands of another without
                                the consent of the owners, and providing a penalty)- recommending
                                its passage.

                            Messrs. McClurg, Crain, and Smith of Bartholomew, opposed the bill:
                                and Mr. Branham and Mr. Atkinson, supported it.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend, by inserting "enclosed or improved
                                premises."

                            Mr. BUNDY inquired if frogs are to be regarded as game?

                            Mr. FRASIER moved to lay the bill and  amendment on the table: but withdrew
                                for a direct vote.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment was adopted.

                            Mr. KNOWLTON. It was no more than just that the farmer should be
                                protected from marauding bands with packs of dogs.

                            Mr. THOMAS hoped every farmer would go for the bill. There was an
                                interest here that ought to be protected.

                            Mr. FERGUSON demanded the previous question, and under its force the
                                bill was ordered to be engrossed : yeas 60, nays 32.

                            Mr. SHERMAN, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Priviliges, returned Mr. Dobbin's bill [270] to amend
                                the 87th section of the Practice act, with an amendment with regard
                                to advertisement in a newspaper, striking out "largest," and
                                inserting in lieu "of general circulation."

                            Mr. HEFFREN opposed: and Messrs. Dobbins and Edson were satisfied
                                with the amendment reported.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed to restore the word "largest."

                            Mr. GRESHAM. Upon the question of the largest circulation, a man
                                might make a legal point that would unsettle the title to real
                                estate thus sold. It would open the door to lawsuits.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, was in favor of the amendment.

                            Mr. CRAIN, Mr. ROBBINS, Mr. PARRETT. The great object of the
                                committee was to get the largest circulation of the advertisement.
                                The present law gave room for questions affecting titles. "Newspaper
                                of general circulation" was specific enough. Those interested ought
                                to have the right of selection.

                            Mr. FRASIER withdrew his amendment; and then-forced by the previous
                                question-the committee's amendment was adopted, and the bill ordered
                                to be engrossed.

                            Mr. Smith of Bartholomew, from the same committee, returned Mr. Orr's
                                bill [203], to amend the act of March 3,1859, for better protection
                                of religious meetings and agricultural fairs, with an amendment,
                                which was concurred in. He stated that this bill excludes eating and
                                drinking stands within two miles &c.

                            The bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. WELLS, from the Committee on Roads, returned
                                Mr. Anderson's road bill [193], with an amendment, "that no person
                                shall be required to work on the roads more than two days in each
                                year, except in cases of extraordinary obstructions of the highways,
                                &c. ; which amendment was adopted, and the bill was ordered to
                                be engrossed.

                            Mr. FRASIER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Black's bill [16] to provide
                                for refunding moneys erroneously paid on Saline lands, recommending
                                its passage.

                            He also returned Mr. Coopriders bill (180) To provide against results
                                from the destruction of^books, papers, &c., recommending its
                                passage-

                            These bills were ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. JONES of Wayne, returned Mr. Packard's township bill (312)
                                reporting furtther legislstion thereon inexpedient.

                            Mr. BLACK, from the Committee on Claims, returned
                                the claim af John McFadden, recommending that it be laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. DAVIS, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned the petition of Geo. L. Eastman, reporting that it be laid
                                on the table-the subject having been acted on.

                            Mr. MOORMAN, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned Mr. Roberts' Weights and Measures bill (219) reporting that
                                it be aid on the table.

                            Mr. TURNER returned Mr. Kendricks' Ditch bill (223) recommending
                                indefinite postponement.

                            Mr. THOMPSON returned the joint resolution (9) To purchase Dr. Owen's
                                Cabinet and Apparatus, with a motion that it be laid on the
                                table.

                            The foregoing reports were severally concurred in.

                            He also returned Mr. Pitts' Rent bill (256) recommending its passage. 

                        
                        

                        
                            DOG LAW.

                            Also the bill (S. 16) requiring township Assessors to report the
                                number of sheep killed by dogs, recommending its passage; which
                                bills were ordered to be engrossed.

                            He also returned the petition of A. D. Price and others, concerning
                                the protection of sheep its object having been acted on.

                            Mr. THOMPSON also returned Mr. Anderson's bill (176) To license dogs,
                                and providing for the payment of damages for the maiming or killing
                                of sheep by dogs, with amendments striking out the 4th section, and
                                adding appropriately:

                            "Every dog not licensed under the provisions of this act shall be a
                                nuisance; and it shall be lawful to kill any dog found off the
                                premises or out of the presence of the owner."

                            Also insert:-

                             "Any person who shall kill any dog licensed under the provisions of
                                this act, unless the said dog be found chasing sheep, shall be
                                deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction, fined in any
                                sum not less than $5, nor more than $15.

                            The bill provides further, that no female dog shall be licensed for
                                less than one dollar; that the fund arising from these licenses,
                                &c., shall be set apart for the payment of damages by dogs upon
                                sheep ; and the overplus for common schools.

                            Mr. PROSSER. This bill was a dodge. It was a specific, unequal
                                tax-not a license. You might as well license my horse. The bill
                                makes the dog a nuisance upon your own premises ; and he alleged
                                that it was unconstitutional ; the tax was not uniform.

                            Mr. POLK proposed to amend the bill, by a clause requiring but ten
                                cents for the license of the first dog.

                            Mr. FRASIER. Adopt that, and the bill amounts to nothing. One of the
                                objects of the bill was to provide a fund to pay for sheep destroyed by dogs. He indicated
                                an amendment.

                            Mr. VEATCH supported the bill, giving a description of it. It leaves
                                it discretionary with the owner to license his dog or not, but makes
                                the security of his dog contingent upon it.

                            Mr. PROSSER. Does the gentleman consider this a license or a tax.

                            Mr. VEATCH considered it a license, as much as when we license a man
                                to sell whisky. It was admitted on all sides, that society has a
                                right to regulate ; to license whatever it may be necessary to
                                protect itself against. It was simply a question of expediency.

                            Mr. BUNDY demanded the previous question, and under its force Mr.
                                Polk's amendment was rejected, the amendments of the committee were
                                concurred in, and the bill was ordered to engrossed.

                            On motion by Mr. FERGUSON, the bill was considered as engrossed.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. There was no provision in it to enforce the payment
                                of the license. He desired to offer an amendment to the first
                                section, so that the license shall not issue before the money is
                                paid for it.

                            Mr. CAMERON. If a dog is not licensed, he is declared a nuisance.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN (Mr. McLean in the chair). There was an excess of
                                modesty in the report of the committee. The female dog in the bill
                                should be called by the name given in our statutes, slut or bitch.
                                This amendment was adopted by unanimous consent.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew was opposed to the bill, because it would
                                admit of the outrage of shooting of a dog in the presence of the
                                owner.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed the following:

                            "Nothing in this act shall be so construed as to prohibit Common
                                Councils of cities and towns from levying a special tax on dogs, as
                                was provided by law."

                            It was adopted by unanimous consent.

                            Under the previous question, demanded by Mr. GRESHAM, the bill was
                                passed the third reading: yeas 58, nays 29with an amendment of
                                title, by Mr. BUNDY : 'declaring unlicensed dogs a nuisance, and
                                prescribing the manner in which they may be killed, prescribing
                                punishment for killing a licensed dog;" and by Mr. Stotsenberg: "and
                                to provide penalties for the violation of this act by officers and
                                others."

                            Mr. HOLCOMB proposed to add: "and to provide for legislation;" which
                                was rejected.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN proposed to add: "and for the protection of sheep,
                                at the expense of the canine race."

                            On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, it was laid on the table. 

                        
                        

                        
                            HOSPITAL FOR IDIOTS.

                            Mr. CAMERON, from the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions, returned the resolution for an
                                institution for the care of idiots or imbecile persons. The
                                committee stated that cases of idiocy are more numerous than those
                                of deaf and dumb and blind ; and their treatment is not now so
                                hopeless as the treatment of the latter classes were considered a
                                hundred years ago. Means have been devised by which idiots may be
                                educated, and their condition improved. The State of Massachusetts,
                                in 1848, established an institution of this kind, which is now in
                                successful operation; and her example has been followed in
                                Pennsylvania, Ohio, &c. But they recite the fact that one of the
                                benevolent institutions of the State is still incomplete, and then
                                the embarrassed condition of the finances of the State staring them
                                in the face, and report further legislation for this object
                                inexpedient at present.

                            He also reported against the petition of J. C. Kennedy, for a special
                                act to authorize the removal of his wife from the Ohio asylum for
                                the insane:

                            Which reports were severally concurred in.

                            Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe, from the Committee on
                                    Temperance, returned the memorial of the Grand
                                Division of the Sons of Temperance, for an asylum for inebriates,
                                with a motion that it be referred to the Select Committee on Mr.
                                Veatch's Asylum bill, No. 198 : and he returned another petition
                                from, the same source "for the repeal of restricting liquor laws,
                                with a recommendation that it be laid on the table : which reports
                                were concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            STATE OFFICERS.

                            Mr. NEBEKER, from the Committee on Public
                                    Expenditures, made a report reciting the provisions of
                                the act of March 3, 1859, that State officers shall receive no other
                                compensation than their salaries; that they shall pay all fees and
                                perquisites pertaining to their office into the treasury, keep a
                                strict account thereof, and report every three months; and alleging
                                that no State officer had complied with these provisions, they
                                therefore report a joint resolution, directing and requiring the
                                Attorney General to bring suit against all such officers as have
                                received such fees and perquisites and failed or refused to pay them
                                into the treasury as required by law.

                            Mr. KNOWLTON had given his assent to this report, because it had been
                                stated to him that information had been before the Committee which
                                justified it.

                            Mr. JENKINSON was distinctly in favor of the resolution.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to add: " If the Attorney General is of opinion
                                that the same be collected." The former Attorney General had given
                                his opinion, that these officers were entitled to their perquisites,
                                notwithstanding the act af 1859.

                            Mr. BUNDY suggested "the Governor and Attorney General."

                            Mr. HEFFREN accepted.

                            Mr. BUNDY. The only objection I could have to the amendment is, that
                                it seems to express some doubt that the State can recover the fees
                                and perquisites that have been illegally  pocketed. The law is so plain and
                                explicit in its terms that it is impossible for it to be avoid ed. I
                                will go for the amendment with this explanation.

                            Mr. FRASIER was for having the question tested by the Courts,and
                                opposed to the amendment.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew spoke in favor of the passage of the
                                resolution.

                            On motion of Mr. GRESHAM, the amendment was laid on the table.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and the joint resolution
                                was adopted-yeas 90, nays 2-Mr. Heffren being excused from
                                voting.

                            Mr. HURD, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned Mr. Bingham's damages bill, (258) and it was referred to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary.

                            He also returned Mr. Sherman's City Corporations bill (259)
                                recommending indefinite postponement; which was concurred in.

                            Also, Mr. Parrett's bill (261.)

                            Mr. COMBS, from a majority of said Committee, returned Mr. Bundy's
                                bill (271) to authorize road companies to obtain materials for
                                repairs from lands adjoining their roads, and reported legislation
                                inexpedient.

                            On motion of Mr. BUNDY, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Roads.

                            Mr. ERWIN, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned Mr. Grover's bill (217) supplemental to the City
                                Corporations act, recommending its passage.

                            Mr. COOPRIDER returned Mr. Jones of Wayne's town corporations bill
                                [218] recommending passage.

                            Mr. JONES of Wayne, said it was to legalize the action of town boards
                                taken before the law was in force.

                            The two foregoing bills were ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. ERWIN returned Mr. Grain's Wabash and Erie Canal bill [255J with
                                a motion that it be referred to the Committee on the
                                    Judiciary : which was concurred in.

                            Mr. COOPRIDER returned Mr. Crain's bill [264] to amend the act. of
                                June 11, '52, providing tor the incorporation of towns, &c.,
                                recommending its passage: and it was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. COLLINS of Whitley, returned the bill to amend the plank and
                                gravel road acts of May 12, '52, and March 5, '59, recommending
                                passage: and it was ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. FORD returned Mr. Kendrick's corporations bill [178] recommending
                                that the bill and amendments proposed thereto be indefinitely
                                postponed : which was concurred in.

                            He also on behalf of a majority of said committee returned Mr.
                                Bundy's road bill [267] recommending legislation inexpedient.

                            On motion by Mr. BUNDY, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Roads.

                            Mr. GIFFORD, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned Mr. Edson's Legislative compensation bill [257] reporting
                                further action thereon inexpedient: which was concurred in. 

                        
                        

                        
                            THE STATE DEBT.

                            Mr. BRANHAM, from the joint select committee instructed to report a
                                plan for the gradual liquidation of the State debt, submitted a
                                report recommending that the commissioners of the sinking fund be
                                authorized to invest that fund in 5 per cent. State stocks; that the
                                present levy of two cents on the hundred dollars be continued
                                through the year 1861, and that a tax of five cents on the hundred
                                dollars be levied and collected from year to year till said debt
                                shall be paid-the first of the proceeds of said tax to be applied to
                                the payment of the $303,000 over due to the Sinking Fund.

                            On motion of Mr. GROVER, it was referred to the Committee on
                                    Ways and Means.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB, from the select committee thereon, returned Mr. Jones of
                                Tippecanoe's county surveyors bill [350] with amendments striking
                                out the 4th section, and all that relates to office and fees, ana
                                inserting "the fees authorized by law," &c.; and a section with
                                regard to appeals, &c.

                            Mr. GROVER would lay it on the table.

                            Mr. FISHER. The importance of this bill was in the fact, that there
                                was now no general rule among surveyors to regulate their operation.
                                The principles and regulations in this bill were well considered. It
                                incurs no additional expense.

                            Mr. FRASIER. Surveyors have told me that, without a perfect system
                                extending throughout the Stace, there is no use in legislation on
                                this subject.

                            The amendments were adopted, and the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG, from the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts, reported against Mr. Smith of Bartholomew's
                                Court bill, [153.]

                            Mr. McLEAN returned a resolution for compensation of district
                                prosecutors, as matter acted on; which reports were concurred
                                in.

                            Mr. McCLURG returned Mr. Gresham's bill [286] To increase the
                                compensation of the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas to $1500,
                                with an amendment, proposing $1300also, striking out the words, " to
                                be paid out of the State Treasury," and so amended, the Committee
                                recommend its passage.

                            Mr. GRESHAM considered it unjust to restrict these common pleas
                                judges to a thousand dollars, who are doing most of the judicial
                                business of the State. If there was time to do it, he might be for
                                dispensing altogether with the common pleas courts, by increasing
                                the number of the judges; but since that could not be done, this
                                bill ought to pass.

                            On motion by Mr. HOLCOMB, the bill and report were laid on the table. 

                        
                        

                        
                            THE COURTS.

                            Mr. EDSON, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Mr. Jenkinson's bill [196] giving the clerks of the several
                                Circuit courts  of the State
                                probate jurisdiction, defining their powers and duties, and fixing
                                their compensation ; prohibiting their deputies from practicing law,
                                and repealing, &c.a majority of said Committee reporting
                                legislation inexpedient thereon.

                            Mr. JENKINSON submitted a minority report, recommending the passnge
                                of this bill, together with his bill [192] To organize and make 28
                                judicial circuits, &c. It would save $100,000 a year to the
                                State, in court expenses.

                            Mr. EDSON. The bill is one of two introduced by Mr. Jenkinson for
                                abolishing the common pleas. A majority of the Committee united in a
                                report to lay them on the table, because there was not time to
                                reconstruct and make the proposed changes at the present session. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG filed a motion to reconsider the vote of this morning
                                on the final passage of Mr. Anderson's Dog bill. 



                            
                                REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                        COMMITTEE.

                                 Mr. WOODHULL returned the bill, [S. 70] with a motion that it be
                                    laid on the table ; which was agreed to. Also, Mr. Jenkinson's
                                    School Township bill [252] recommending its passage; which was
                                    ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. JENKINSON returned Mr. Branham's Sinking Fund investment
                                    bill, [289] recommending its passage. It was ordered to be
                                    engrossed.

                                Mr. BUNDY returned his Road Election bill, [278] reporting
                                    generally. It was ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. JENKINSON returned Mr. Atkinson's bill [234] to amend section
                                    6 of the Practice act; which was laid on the table.

                                Mr. HEFFREN returned his Rape and Seduction bill [298] reducing
                                    the imprisonment sanction to " not less than two nor more than
                                    fourteen years;" which was concurred in, and so the bill was
                                    ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. WOODHULL returned Mr. Lee's Justices bill [300]; which was
                                    laid on the table.

                                Mr. GRESHAM returned Mr. Black's Clerk bill [303] ; which was
                                    ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. CASON returned Mr. Veatch's Attorney General salary bill
                                    [304]; which was laid on the table. 
                            
                            

                            
                                STOCK KILLED BY RAILROADS.

                                Mr. BUNDY returned Mr. Dobbin's Railroad bill [60], recommending
                                    indefinite postponement.

                                Mr. DOBBINS complained of the report, and desired that the bill
                                    be referred to a select committee of three.

                                Mr. BUNDY. It was unconstitutional-adding a new provision to the
                                    railroad charters. As well might you require an individual,
                                    whose solvency is suspected, to file securities for his
                                    creditors.

                                Mr. VEATCH replied to Mr. Dobbins, and defended the action of the
                                        Judiciary Committee.

                                Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, supported the bill. Some railroads
                                    paid very well, for example, the Macttson and Indianapolis
                                    managed by the gentleman before me, [ Mr. Branham.]

                                Mr. BRANHAM. If the gentleman will allow me to say it: we have
                                    paid for two cows that are now living and in service. The
                                    Jeffersonville Road has paid for a mule twice which is still
                                    alive. [Laughter.]

                                 Mr. SMITH supported the bill at length.

                                Mr. DOBBINS spoke again.

                                Mr. BRETT added considerations in favor of this or some other
                                    plan to quiet this well-grounded dissatisfaction of the people
                                    on account of the destruction of their property by railroads. If
                                    some remedy were not, proposed here, the people would take the
                                    matter into their own hands, and would make it much worse.

                                Mr. DAVIS. There was nothing so much demanded of this Legislature
                                    in his county as some means of redress on this account.

                                Mr. BINGHAM. Living on the line of the railroad, which the author
                                    of this bill desires principally to affect by it, it, was proper
                                    that he should state the reasons why he was obliged to oppose
                                    it. This stock-killing had been a matter of complaint for three
                                    or four years against the management of that road. None could be
                                    more willing than himself to unite with the gentleman in framing
                                    some bill that would afford ample relief. But he looked upon
                                    this bill as not only impracticable, but exceedingly inintical
                                    to the interests of the people themselves-as a proposition to
                                    compel insolvent companies to pay liabilities which they incur
                                    by the management of their roads. He gave examples. Individuals
                                    losing stock now can generally make some sort of compromise with
                                    the railroads ; but this bill proposes a second suit against the
                                    company on their bonds ; and it would operate as a direct mode
                                    of increasing litigations with the railroads.

                                Mr. Speaker ALLEN. [Mr. Sherman in the Chair.] Such was the
                                    intensity of the feeling in this matter, that if something is
                                    not done for the protection of the rights of citizens residing
                                    along the railroads, it will probably in some cases result in
                                    the injury and destruction of the lives of innocent persons. It
                                    was a just and reasonable consideration, that a corporation,
                                    able to pay $75,000 to $100,000 a year in salaries, could also
                                    do something for the payment of damages on account of property
                                    killed or destroyed by them. He thought that, though the souls
                                    and bodies of these corporations might escape responsibility for
                                    their destruction of property, still their assets might be
                                    reached. He, also, was in favor of a recommitment of the
                                    bill.

                                Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and thereupon the
                                    bill was recommitted to Messrs. Dobbins, Brett and Bingham. 

                            
                            

                            
                                THE COURTS.

                                The House now resumed the report of Mr.  Edson, from a majority of the
                                        Judiciary Committee, recommending the
                                    indefinite postponement of Mr. Jenkinson's bill [J.9G], giving
                                    probate jurisdiction to the clerks of the circuit courts.

                                Mr. GRESHAM, from a majority of the Judiciary
                                        Committee, returned Mr. Jenkinson's bill [192],
                                    for the abolishment of the common pleas courts, and for the
                                    reorganization of the circuit courts, recommending its
                                    indefinite postponement. It was agreed to consider both bills
                                    together.

                                Mr. JENKINSON opposed concurrence in the report, and went into a
                                    comparison of the expensiveness of the courts under the present
                                    system with the two courts ; and the system of circuit courts
                                    alone proposed in these bills showing a saving on his plan of
                                    $90,000 to $100,000 annually. His proposition, he was glad to
                                    say, was favorably regarded by the best lawyers. Even those who
                                    oppose it here were compelled to admit that they will have to
                                    come to it ultimately, &c.

                                Mr. CRAIN. It seemed that no court system could stand in this.
                                    State more than two years. About half our bills passed this
                                    session were to change the terms of courts. As to the plea of
                                    economy, it was his belief that if this system were now
                                    inaugurated with 28 circuits, the number of circuits would have
                                    to be doubled by the next Legislature. He also objected to the
                                    surrogate system proposed.

                                Mr. HEFFREN concurred generally with Mr. Crain, and submitted
                                    other objections to the bills.

                                Mr. FRASIER regarded this as a matter of the first importance. He
                                    did not expect things would be much better till we should get
                                    back to the old simple system that existed before we began the
                                    process of simplification. The increase of expensiveness of the
                                    courts, and the increase of litigation since, had been far
                                    greater than the proportionate increase of population. He did
                                    not, however, approve of the surrogate System proposed by the
                                    gentleman. We were not reaping the fruits of the spirit of
                                    innovation of ten years ago, in the expensiveness of the court
                                    system, &c.

                                Mr. GRESHAM demanded the previous question, and under its
                                    operation the majority report was concurred in, and the bill 196
                                    was indefinitely postponed: yeas 53, nays 32.

                                Mr. OWENS gave reasons for voting "no," because we had simplified
                                    to a ridiculous extent, and a return to the old system was
                                    demanded by the people.

                                The question recurred on concurrence in the committee's report,
                                    to indefinitely postpone Mr. Jenkinson's bill No. 192-

                                Mr. Speaker ALLEN spoke in favor of abolishing the courts of
                                    common pleas. He desired to secure a uniform rule of practice.
                                    He referred to the difficulty about jurisdiction, and the number
                                    of cases appealed on questions of jurisdiction alone. The legal
                                    talent on the common pleas bench was inferior. There was not the
                                    same rules observed by the two courts in making decisions. This
                                    could not be obviated without increasing the salary of the
                                    common pleas judges. The item of salary was but half the expense
                                    of courts: and the expense outside of the salaries was augmented
                                    in proportion to the number of the systems of courts. The
                                    probate business might be given to the clerks, or there might be
                                    a surrogate for each county, receiving the fees now given to the
                                    clerks. The simpler the probate system the better. Its business
                                    might be done usually without the intervention of a lawyer.

                                Mr. BRANHAM concurred. His speech was in the Declaration of
                                    Independence. The present system "created a swarm of officers,
                                    to harrass our people and eat our substance." [Laughter.]

                                Mr. WOODHULL was unwilling to change the probate system, until
                                    some provision should be made for a better.

                                Mr. Speaker ALLEN understood that this bill itself provided a
                                    complete system.

                                Mr. GRESHAM demanded the previous question, and, under its
                                    operation, the bill was indefinitely postponed : yeas 47, nays
                                    44.

                                Mr. BINGHAM, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                    returned his Damages bill [258] ;,and it was ordered to be
                                    engrossed.

                                He also returned Mr. Miller's Road bill [536], with an amendment,
                                    striking out the publication clause ; which was adopted, and so
                                    the bill was ordered to be engrossed.

                                He also returned Mr. Heffren's Punishment bill [308]reporting
                                    further legislation inexpedient thereon ; and it was laid on the
                                    table.

                                Mr. GRESHAM returned Mr. Heffren's bill [302], providing for
                                    taking the sense of the people on the Crittenden and border
                                    States propositions on the first Monday in April, reporting
                                    legislation inexpedient, and that the bill be laid on the table. 

                                 Mr. HEFFREN opposed the report, submitting brief considerations
                                    why the voice of the people should be heard on these
                                    questions.

                                Mr. VEATCH did not understand that we were called upon to
                                    authorize this special election. Things were too unsettled to
                                    justify it. One day we have the Crittenden propositions; the
                                    next day we have the Border States propositions; the next we
                                    have the Peace Congress resolutions; the next something else,
                                    and so on. Before the people could assemble and vote on this
                                    call, some new proposition would be up, and all the voting would
                                    be laid aside.

                                Mr. HEFFREN. But why refuse to allow the people to be heard ?

                                Mr. VEATCH. Because the people do not demand it. True, there may
                                    be a few gentlemen who are very restive-who have lost position
                                    on their platforms that have been so lately occupied, and so
                                    suddenly thrust aside. They find that they can't make platforms
                                    in the hearts of the people, and they come here and try to make them in the
                                    legislative halls. [Laughter and applause.]

                                Mr. HEFFREN. If the gentleman will give us either of these
                                    platforms in the bill, we will be satisfied.

                                Mr. VEATCH. Abraham's house is large, and will accommodate all.
                                    [Laughter.]

                                Mr. JENKINSON. Abraham lived in a tent, sir, al. his life.
                                    [Laughter. &c.] He had no house at all. The people in our
                                    county want to have a vote on this question.

                                Mr. FRASIER. But it will be lost and gone, like the other, before
                                    the time for the election.

                                Mr. JENKINSON. No, sir; it is like a ball of snow. It increases
                                    in weight every time you roll it over.

                                A VOICE, [with merriment.] Won't the snow melt ?

                                Mr. JENKINSON. No, sir; the sun is not risen yet. He continued in
                                    favor of the proposition.

                                Mr. GRESHAM was in favor of compromise. He could heartily endorse
                                    the resolutions of the Peace Conference. The Crittenden
                                    propositions were voted down by the Peace Conference ; and the
                                    proposed election might bring shame to our people before the
                                    first Monday in April.

                                Mr. CRAIN demanded the previous question, and under its
                                    operation, the report of the Committee was concurred in-yeas 55,
                                    nays 32-and, accordingly, the bill was laid on the table. 

                            
                            

                            
                                INDIVIDUAL LIABILITY CLAUSE.

                                Mr. VEATCH, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                    returned Mr. Crain's bill [322] To repeal section 38 (individual
                                    liability clause) of the general railroad act of May 11, 1852,
                                    and it was ordered to be engrossed, considered as engrossed, and
                                    passed the 3d reading-yeas 58, nays 26.

                                He also returned Mr. Williams' Insurance bill, [174] and Mr.
                                    Williams' Life Insurance bill [226] and they were severally
                                    ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. GRESHAM returned Mr. Gifford's unclaimed fees bill [92] and
                                    it was laid on the table.

                                Mr. CASON returned Mr. Underwood's Railroad bill [250] with an
                                    amendment, adding a new section [3] "providing that nothing
                                    contained in the act shall revive or renew any railroad charter
                                    forfeited by non-usor; nor shall it operate to dismiss any suit
                                    now pending to annular wind up any such corporation chartered
                                    according to law;" which was adopted ; and so the bill was
                                    ordered to be engrossed.

                                He also returned the common pleas engrossed bill [S. 175] with an
                                    amendment, adding to the first section: "And the court of common
                                    pleas shall have power to make rules directing what order of
                                    business shall be adopted, &c.; and to order on what da a
                                    jury shall be summoned;" which was adopted, and the amendment
                                    was ordered to be engrossed.

                                On motion of Mr. BOYDSTON, the vote rejecting the fish bill [136]
                                    was reconsidered, and it was referred again to the
                                        Committee on Rights and Privileges.

                                Mr. WOODHULL, from Judiciary Committee
                                    returned Mr. Heffren's U.S. Senatorial election bill [313] with
                                    an amendment, inserting a provision, "That in the absence of the
                                    President of the Senate, the joint convention may elect a
                                    President of the joint convention pro
                                    tempore;" which was adopted, and so the bill was ordered to
                                    be engrossed.

                                On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, it was made the special order for
                                    to-morrow 10 o'clock. 

                            
                            

                            
                                TIPPECANOE BATTLE GROUND.

                                Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and
                                        Means, returned Mr. Bryant's select committee bill
                                    [242] to provide for the enclosing of the Tippecanoe Battle
                                    Ground, and making an appropriation for the same, with an
                                    amendment striking out and inserting after the enacting clause.
                                    It authorizes the county commissioners of Tippecanoe county to
                                    enclose about seven acres, including the graves, with a good
                                    substantial wrought-iron fence,to cost the State not exceeding
                                    $6,000, and that not payable till May, 1862.

                                The amendment was adopted, and so the bill was ordered to be
                                    engrossed.

                                Mr. JONES of Wayne, returned the resolution for extending the
                                    time for the collection of taxes, reporting further action
                                    thereon inexpedient: which was concurred in.

                                Mr. FISHER, from the Committee on Ways and
                                        Means, returned Mr. Hurd's bank bill [269,] and it
                                    was ordered to be engrossed.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG'S motion to reconsider the vote on the final
                                    passage of Mr. Anderson's Dog bill, was now taken up; and

                                On motion by Mr. BUNDY, it was laid on the table.

                                On motion of Mr. KNOWLTON, his bill. Mechanics' Lien bill, was
                                    withdrawn fro/n the files, and referred to a Select
                                    Committee.

                                Mr. NEWMAN, from the Committee on the Organization of
                                        Courts, returned Mr. Gore's Common Pleas bill,
                                    with an amendment, striking out "June" and inserting "August,"
                                    which was adopted; and so the bill was ordered to be
                                    engrossed.

                                Mr. THOMAS submitted an order, to change the time of meeting to 8
                                    o'clock in the morning : which lies over.

                                The House adjourned. 

                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            SATURDAY, March 2,1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. CONNER, the reading of the journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with.

                        The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate communications from the State
                            officers, (in answer to a demand from the Governor,) setting forth the
                            amount of fees and perquis

                    
                    

                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, MARCH 9, 1861
                        No. 21
                    

                    
                        

                        ites accruing in the several offices since the passage of the act of
                            March 5, 1859 ; which were referred to the Committee on
                                Finance. 


                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.

                            By Mr. TEEGARDEN: From citizens of Laporte county, praying for the
                                passage of a law authorizing county com-commissioners to hold plats
                                of ground for the use of agricultural and horticultural societies;
                                which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Agriculture.

                            By Mr. DeHART: From 50 citizens of Howard county, praying for an act
                                authorizing the establishment of five additional branches of the
                                Bank of the State; which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Banks.

                            By Mr. WILLIAMS: From 55 citizens of Knox county, without respect to
                                party, praying for an adjustment of our national troubles upon the
                                basis of the Crittenden amendments, or some other basis equally fair
                                and honorable; which was referred to the Committee on
                                    Federal Relations under the rules. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES

                            Were made and concurred in, as follows:

                            
                                By Mr. HAMILTON: Finance-returning the bill
                                    H. R. 283-see page 269 of these Reports-recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. BLAIR: Finance-returning the bill S.
                                    186-see page 232-recommending indefinite postponement as there
                                    is a House bill now on the files which can be amended, so as to
                                    accomplish its object.

                                By Mr. HULL: Roads-returning the bill S.
                                    246, recommending passage

                                By Mr. MELLETT: Claims-returning the bill
                                    S. 267, recommending that it lie on the table, as the committee
                                    have heretofore reported a bill upon the same subject and
                                    recommended its passage.

                                By Mr. FERGUSON: Select Committee-returning the bill H. R.
                                    328, changing the time of holding the Common Pleas Court in his
                                    district, recommending passage.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON: Select Committee-returning the bill S. 266,
                                    changing the time of holding courts in Owen county, recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. MILLER: Education-returning the bill
                                    H. R. 100-see page 100 of these Reports-recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. CONNER: Select Committee-returning his levee and drain
                                    bill S. 252, recommending passage.

                                By Mr. STEELE: Banks-returning the bill H.
                                    R. 140-see page 136 of these Reports-recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON: Finance-returning the bill
                                    H. R. 13-see page 29-recommending indefinite
                                    postponement.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON: Corporationsreturning
                                    Senator Slack's bill 180-see page 226-without
                                    recommendation.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            Mr. MARCH introduced a bill [273] to give judgment defendents the
                                right to redeem land within 12 months when sold on execution without
                                benefit of valuation and appraisement laws.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB introduced a bill [274] to provide for the appointment
                                of; a temporary judge of the Court of Common Pleas by said court, in
                                the absence of, or in case of interest or relationship of the judge;
                                and for an extension of the time of holding said court. 

                            Which were passed to the second reading. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                            The following bills were read the second time, and referred to the
                                appropriate committees:

                            
                                Judiciary-H. R. 115, 129, and Senator
                                    Wagner's 172.

                                Finance-The bill H. R. 135.

                                Rights and Privileges-The bill H. R.
                                    139.

                                Organization of Courts-Senator Wagner's
                                    270.

                                Senator Wagner's 269 was laid on the table and 200 copies
                                    ordered printed, on Mr. MILLER'S motion.

                                The bills H. R. 77, 114, 124, 296, and Senator Landers' 271
                                    were ordered engrossed.
                            

                            On motion by Mr. MILLER the common School bill S. 217 was taken up
                                for consideration; when, on motion by Mr. BLAIR, it was made the
                                special order for Monday at 2 o'clock.

                            On motion by Mr. TURNER, the bill H. R. 3-see page 28 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time, amended so as the courts shall be
                                held in Newton county before those in Jasper county, and finally
                                passed by yeas 35, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. JOHNSON, his bill 264, fixing and extending the time
                                of holding common pleas courts in Putnam county, was read the third
                                time, and finally passed by yeas 35 nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, his bill [45] providing for a speedy
                                publication of decisions of the Supreme Court, excluding argument of
                                counsel-see pages 69 and 170-was read the third time, and finally
                                passed by yeas 35, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. CRAVENS (Mr. Wagner in the chair), Senator
                                Hamilton's bill 31-see pages 45, 227, 244, 257 of these Reports-was
                                taken up and the House amendments thereto were read.

                            Mr. CRAVEN. I am unable to apprehend why it is that a bill of such
                                great importance is to be pressed through before we have time to
                                examine it. I find upon hearing the amendments read that the
                                proposition put in the bill by the Senate in regard to those
                                creditors furnishing wood, labor, &c., has been cut out, so that
                                it now wipes out all debts; and for what reason I am unable to
                                apprehend. If this bill is a fair and honest proposition, I ask why
                                this hot haste? Why refuse a Senator upon this floor the privilege
                                of examining this bill, which will not take more than half an hour? An honest proposition,
                                sir, requires no such extraordinary management. For one I cannot
                                concur in the amendments.

                            Mr. HAMILTON. I disclaim any dishonesty of purpose in this matter.
                                This bill was discussed fully in the Senate. I am as incapable of
                                presenting anything to this Senate that would be unjust or unfair as
                                any Senator upon this floor. If the Senator cannot comprehend this
                                bill it is not my fault. If these amendments are not concurred in
                                the bill will have to go back to the House, and a committee of
                                conference called for, and it is too near the close of the session
                                for that.

                            Mr. MARCH. The Senator from Madison (Mr. Craven), is chairman of the
                                Committee on Corporations, and I think it is no more than courtesy
                                that he should have an opportunity to examine the bill. I agree with
                                him that this is an important bill, and there is no necessity for
                                running it through in hot haste. I do not intend to make a factious
                                opposition to it, but it is due to every Senator that he should have
                                an opportunity to examine the bill and amendments. I do not discover
                                any objectionable feature in them, but in a long bill of that kind
                                the change or addition to the phraseology may be of great
                                importance.

                            Mr. STEELE. This seems to me to be an unusual course in legislation.
                                By the number of that bill we see it is one of the first introduced
                                in the legislature, and I don't think there has a bill been as much
                                discussed as this one. It is growing late in the session, and it is
                                known to every Senator that if this bill goes to a committee now it
                                is uncertain about its passage. I know there is justice in the
                                bill-it contemplates nothing but justice, and it is due to those who
                                have passed upon it and heard it discussed to put it upon the
                                concurrent vote at once. I hope for the sake of the tens of
                                thousands interested in the passage of this bill that it will be
                                passed, and that we will act upon it at once.

                            Mr. CRAVEN. Bills of importance, which a number of Senators desire
                                should come up now, have to be throttled at once for this mammoth
                                railroad bill, because of the railroad influences here. There are
                                certain propositions in that bill as I now understand them, that I
                                am against,and ever expect to be against. I simply ask the privilege
                                of examining it fairly, and that is but the common right of a
                                Senator here. I move to refer the bill to a Select Committee of
                                Three.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. The Senator from Madison [Mr. Craven] has the right to
                                examine the bill, as we have all that right. This bill was
                                introduced early in the session; it has now passed both Houses, and
                                the .question is, shall it be postponed, and its passage endangered,
                                and that, too, for one Senator, who says he shall ever be opposed to
                                it? I trust the bill may be put upon its passage, that we may now
                                concur or refuse to concur, for the simple reason that the railroads
                                running through this State constitute a great interest-commercial
                                agricultural and otherwise; a great many of these railroads are not
                                worth a dollar to the stockholders, and nothing to the community and
                                this bill simply enables them to get upon their legs again, that
                                they may be useful, become fertilizers to the soil, and furnish to
                                every man a market at his door.

                            The motion to refer was rejected.

                            The House amendments were concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL, his bill 209-see page 244 of these
                                Reports-providing for the distribution of estates, taking into
                                consideration the advancements thereof, was read the third time, and
                                finally passed by yeas 34, nays 0.

                            Mr. CRAVENS, from the Committee on Finance,
                                returned the bill H. R. 161-see page 146 of these
                                Reports-recommending passage. The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. If it is the pleasure of the Senate, I would like to
                                have that bill put upon its passage. It is a bill simply providing
                                an amendment to the llth section of the act providing a treasury
                                system, approved March 1 1859. It provides that whenever the
                                Treasurer of State knows there is any money in a county treasury
                                belonging to the State, he shall have power to call it up to the
                                capital, and if, upon this requisition, the county treasurer shall
                                refuse, then action shall be commenced upon the county treasurer's
                                bonds. The object of this bill is to avoid hereafter the
                                difficulties we have been in this winter. 

                            Mr. CARNAHAN. It seems to me this bill can hardly bp carried out. For
                                instance, if the treasurer of a county is told to transmit funds to
                                the capital of the State, and they are lost in the mails, I am
                                inclined to think, under the bill passed a few days ago, that
                                treasurer would stand a good chance of getting into the State's
                                prison. I shall have to vote against the bill upon its passage.

                            Mr. CRAVENS. This bill simply provides that the county treasurer
                                shall remit the State funds to the capital upon the requisition of
                                the Treasurer of State. The main object of the bill is to supply the
                                State treasury with money belonging to the State and in the hands of
                                county treasurers. The bill is supplementary to the other bill, and
                                should be passed so as to avoid the necessity hereafter of making
                                outside provision for money to supply deficits in the State
                                treasury, as was the case this winter.

                            The bill finally passed : yeas 31, nays 3.

                            On motion by Mr. CONLEY, the bill S. 266, fixing the time of holding
                                courts in Owen county, was read the third time and finally passed:
                                yeas 34, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. STEELE, the bill H. R. 140-see page 136 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time (he said the object of the bill was
                                to rectify a mistake which cannot be done without a law upon the
                                subject), and finally-yeas 34, nays 0. 

                            On motion by Mr. CRAVEN, the bill [S.70]  for the relief of Lot Edwards, was
                                read the third time, (Mr. NEWCOMB explained its provisions, and Mr.
                                STEELE said "the bill is right,") and finally passed: yeas 34, nays
                                0.

                            On motion by Mr. RAY, his bill 185, to extend the time of holding the
                                common pleas court in Shelby county, was read the third time.

                            Pending the vote on its passage-

                            Came the recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Reports from Committees were made, and concurred in as follows:

                            
                                By Mr. WAGNER : Finance-returning the bill
                                    [H. R. 325] to raise revenue for 1861-2, recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. MARCH :. Judiciary-returning the
                                    bill H. R. 62-see page 50 of these Reports-recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. CRAVEN: Education-returning a
                                    resolution of inquiry as to whether it is expedient to require
                                    by law that the interest heretofore received on loans of the
                                    sinking fund shall be annually distributed to the treasurers of
                                    the several counties for the use of common schools, &c.,
                                    recommending that it lie on the table, as legislation upon the
                                    subject is unnecessary and inexpedient.

                                By Mr. BLAIR : from the same Committee on the same subject,
                                    reporting that the interest is distributed, and that further
                                    legislation is inexpedient.

                            

                            The House bills 322, 313, 72, 82, 89, 91, 122, and 159, were read,
                                and severally passed to the second reading.

                             On motion by Mr. WAGNER, it was-

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Ordered that a message be transmitted to the House
                                            requesting the return of the bill H. R. 161, passed by
                                            the Senate this morning, that an emergency clause may be
                                            added to it.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. Conley appeared and voted for Mr. Ray's bill 185 [pending the
                                vote on which came the recess for dinner], and so the bill finally
                                passed by yeas 34, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, his bill 269 introduced yesterday morning
                                was taken from the table and referred to the joint committee
                                appointed to redistrict the State for Congressional purposes.

                            Mr. HAMILTON moved to amend the title as follows: 

                            A bill making a Congressional race track for the Senators from
                                Delaware, Fayette, Henry, Laporte, Warren, Parke, Jefferson, DeKalb,
                                and Lawrence.

                            Which was referred with the bill.

                            A message from the House announced the return of the bill H. R. 161;
                                on motion by Mr. WAGNER, the vote was reconsidered by which it was
                                passed, an emergency clause was incorporated in the bill, and it was
                                placed again on the files of the Senate.

                            Mr. WHITE. I move that the joint Committee, to which was referred the
                                bill 269, re-districting the State for Congressional purposes, be
                                instructed to strike out from the bill the counties of White and
                                Jasper, where they occur, and insert Boone county. I will say that I
                                really think there would be no harm in worshipping it, for there is
                                nothing in the heavens above or in the earth beneath like unto it. I
                                like to see politics carried out, but I do think the thing is a
                                little too apparent in this bill. I like to see the fair thing
                                done,and I want it done so the Republicans have the majority too,
                                but not so that it will be too apparent.

                            Two or three other propositions, by way of instructions, were made in
                                a humorous vein-

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            SATURDAY, March 2, 1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. DAVIS, the House took up the consideration of bills on
                            the third reading.

                        The SPEAKER. The Chair will take occasion to state for information, that
                            now there are but seven working days remaining of the session, this
                            House has passed but four Senate bills ; and the Senate has'passed but
                            seven House bills. We have now passed the enormous number of eleven
                            bills. The Chair states this fact, as perhaps it may save some of us an
                            account with our constituents, which may not be so agreeable.

                        Mr. STOTSENBERG. We have not done much harm then.

                        The SPEAKER. Perhaps it would be best to abolish legislation altogether.
                            [" Consent."]

                        Mr. Orr's bill [87] exempting parsonage? from taxation, coming up-

                        On motion of Mr. LANE, it was laid on the table. 

                        
                            RAILROADS.

                            The bill [S. 31] To legalize, authorize and regulate the sale and
                                perfect the title of purchasers of railroads heretofore sold, or
                                hereafter to be sold, by foreclosure or other proceedings in law or
                                equity, and to enable them to organize corporations, and to exercise
                                corporate powers, and to legalize sales of railroads, coming up on
                                the third reading, (with the engrossed amendments of the House) (the
                                amendments of the title here copied were withdrawn-)

                            Mr. NEBEKER proposed to recommit, with instructions to amend by a
                                clause in the second section to "provided that such corporations
                                shall assume all the debts and liabilities of the corporation before
                                the sale, and make such adjustments with any of the stockholders of
                                the last mentioned corporation as it may deem expedient." He
                                proceeded to examine and criticise the second section, and say, that
                                he was in favor of the bill, but it needed guarding and fixing up in
                                many particulars.

                            Mr. FISHER. By the House amendments, the mortgage claims are second
                                to claims for stock killed.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. This was amongst the bills of the session to benefit the
                                people. It proposes to do what the United States Circuit Court did
                                for the Louisville, New Albany and Chicago Railroad, at the end of a
                                long law-suit, &c. On his motion, Mr. Nebeker's motion was laid
                                on the table.

                            The bill, as amended was then passed the  last reading in the House-yeas 76,
                                nays 12-with an amendment of title. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SOUTH BEND MANUFACTURING CO.

                            Mr. Henricks' bill [82] To amend the 7th section of the act to
                                incorporate the South Bend Manufacturing Company, and to repeal the
                                9th section of the same, coming up-

                            Mr. DAVIS called for an explanation.

                            Mr. HENRICKS. The same remarks I made with reference to the bill No.
                                77, day before yesterday, will apply to this. ["Consent."] The
                                section repealed is that providing penalty for not keeping up the
                                lock around the dam, which has gone entirely into disuse.

                            The bill was finally passed the House-yeas 87, nays 0.

                            Mr. Crain had leave of absence until Monday. 
                        
                        

                        
                            U. S. SENATORIAL ELECTION BILL.

                            The SPEAKER now announced the special order, viz: Mr. Heffren's bill
                                No. 313, providing for the mode and manner of electing U. S.
                                Senators, &c. (joint convention of the two Houses on the third
                                Thursday in January.)

                            Mr. HEFFREN explained its provisions.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG did not like the feature requiring a majority of all
                                the members elected to both Houses.

                            Mr. FISHER. It should require the same majority that the Constitution
                                required to pass a bill.

                            The SPEAKER. This bill requires one vote less to elect a Senator than
                                to pass a bill.

                            The bill passed the final reading-yeas 86, nays 3. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON PLEAS DISTRICT.

                            The SPEAKER announced the consideration of unfinished business, viz:
                                Mr. Newman's bill-To organize a Common Pleas Judicial District to be
                                composed of the counties of Vermillion, Parke and Putnam.

                            Mr. NEWMAN explained and enforced the merits of the bill. It was a
                                strip of country west of the Wabash, and composed out, of. three
                                other districts-leaving them still enough to do.

                            Mr. LANE opposed, and referred to remonstrances he had presented
                                against it.

                            Mr. PROSSER. Being desired by the people of the district,it ought to
                                be given to them.

                            The bill was passed the final reading-yeas 54, nays 33.

                            Mr. GRESMAM made an ineffectual motion to take up his military bill,
                                No. 105. 
                        
                        

                        
                            DIVORCEMENT.

                            Mr. Henrick's bill [97] to amend sections 6 and 7 of the act
                                regulating the granting of decrees of divorcement of March 13, 1852,
                                coming up-

                            Mr. HENRICKS explained that it was to prevent persons from other
                                States coming here and obtaining a residence on their own affidavit,
                                under the existing law.

                            VOICES. "No," "no."

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. It amends the act of1852 which was amended at the
                                last session and it does not recite the amendment of th' last
                                session. 

                            Mr. HENRICKS. I had it referred for ex animation, and it was reported
                                without amendment.

                            On motion of Mr. JENKINSON, (on a reconsideration, ) it was referred
                                to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
                        
                        

                        
                            EEL RIVER SEMINARY SOCIETY.

                            Mr. Knowlton's bill [91], to amend the act of January 27, 1847, to
                                amend the act to incorporate the Eel River Seminary Society,
                                approved January 1, 1829, and for other purposes; to amend the
                                second section of said act; to repeal the 3d, 5th, and 8th sections-
                                to provide for the increase of stockholders; for the election of 5
                                trustees as sole managers of the affairs of said society, to
                                prescribe the term of office, and the effect of a failure to elect;
                                and to confine the act of the Board of Commissioners of Cass county,
                                and releasing to the stockholders of said society, all the interest
                                of said county in said society's property and revenues, and
                                releasing all claim of the State thereto, and releasing the
                                corporation from the operation of the act requiring the sale of
                                county seminaries, and legalizing the proceedings of said
                                corporation-coming up-

                            Mr. PARRETT explained.

                            It was passed finally-yeas 81,.nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            FREE BANKSAUDITOR'S CERTIFICATE TO SUE 
                                STOCKHOLDERS.

                            Mr. Roberts' bill [89] to amend the 9th section of the General
                                Banking act, so as to make a copy of the certificate of the
                                auditor's a sufficient cause of action, and prima
                                    facia evidence in writs against banks-coming up-it was
                                passed the final reading: yeas 78, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            HIGHWAYS ON COUNTY LINES.

                            Mr. Atkinson's bill [96], to repeal sections 2, 3, 4, and 5 of the
                                act regulating the working of highways on county lines, approved
                                March 3, 1859, coming up-it was passed over -Mr. A. not being
                                present. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CAPIAS AGAINST THE BODY.

                            Mr. Crain's bill [72], for the recovery of personal property,
                                providing for an execution against the body, and repealing, c.,
                                (authorizing a capias against the body of the replevin-defendant who
                                refuses to deliver up the property)-coming up-it was passed the
                                final reading: yeas, 84, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THIRTEENTH CIRCUIT.

                            Mr. Underwood's bill [155], fixing the timt of holding the circuit
                                courts in the 13t,h judicial circuit-affecting the counties of
                                Wayne, Randolph, Jay, and Henry-coming up-

                            Mr. BUNDY asked that it be laid on the table. He understood it gave
                                six weeks to Wayne county.

                            Mr. UNDERWOOD. It only affects the fall term in Jay county, to avoid
                                conflicting with the common pleas.

                            Mr. BUNDY'S motion was agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        

                        
                            TRESPASS.

                            The timber bill by Mr. Turner [S. 29], to amend the J4th section of
                                the misdemeanor act Of June 14, 1852-coming up-

                            Mr. WOODS said the existing law imposes ft fine only for such
                                trespass. This bill authorizes imprisonment, in the discretion of
                                the court.

                            Mr. CAMERON. It was to save timber in porter county from trespassers
                                from Illinois.

                            The bill passed the third reading-yeas 65, nays 20. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RAILROAD GATEWAYS, ETC.

                            The Judiciary Committee's bill [159] declaring it
                                a misdemeanor to leave open any gate, or let down any fence along
                                the line of any railroad, and providing a penalty therefor fine not
                                exceeding $10 00 imprisonment in county jail not exceeding six
                                months-in the discretion of the court-coming up, it was finally
                                passed the House : yeas, 77, nays 8. 
                        
                        

                        
                            GUARDIAN AND WARD.

                            The bill [S. 12] to amend the 16th section of the act of June 9, '52,
                                touching the relation of guardian and ward-[court may appoint
                                appraiser in each county]-coming up-it was passed the final reading:
                                yeas 78, nays 5. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STATE BOARD OF AGRICULTURE.

                            The bill [S. 24] to amend section 6 of the act of February 17, '52,
                                for the encouragement of agriculture-changing the time of the annual
                                meeting of the State Board to Tuesday, (two days earlier than at
                                present,) after the first Monday in January-coming up-it was passed
                                the third reading in the 'House: yeas 81, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            STOCK KILLED BY RAILROADS.

                            Mr. DOBBINS, from the Select Committee thereon, returned his bill
                                [60] providing for depositing the bonds, securities, &c., of any
                                railroad company in this State, awarding liens on the same for stock
                                killed by them, and providing a penalty, &c., with an amendment
                                striking out all after the enacting clause, and inserting provisions
                                for the road's liability for two-thirds the value, and the full
                                value of the stock, if the-killing is the result of carelessness.
                                Execution may levy on any property of the road-trust funds and
                                property of the road also liable-the running expenses only to be
                                first paid according to priority and equity in the case.

                            The report was concurred in, and so the bill was ordered to be
                                engrossed. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            On the motion of Mr. BUNDY, the regular order of the calendar was
                                laid aside for the consideration of bills on the third reading.

                            Mr. CAMERON (by unanimous consent) submitted an order, which was
                                adopted, for the appointment of a committee of three upon bills sent
                                in for expenses of the reception of the Hon. Abraham Lincoln; and
                                that said committee report the amount allowed.

                            Whereupon, the SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Haworth, Turner and Brett. 

                            
                                WORK FOR COMMITTEES.

                                The bill [S. 107] was read the second time, amended by Mr. DAVIS,
                                    striking out the newspaper publication clause, and so passed to
                                    the third reading to-morrow.

                                The Liquor bill [S. 20] coming up-

                                On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, the newspaper publication clause was
                                    stricken out; and so it was referred to the Committee
                                        on Temperance.

                                The appraisement bill [S. 57] coming up-

                                Mr. DAVIS moved to strike out the publication clause.

                                Mr. CAMERON and Mr. STOTSENBERG spoke against the amendment.

                                The amendment was agreed to ; and so the bill was passed to the
                                    third reading.

                                The bill [S. 65] was referred to the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary.

                                The bill [S. 7] providing that a married woman over the age of 18
                                    and under 21, may join with her husband in a conveyance of real
                                    estate-the judge of the court certifying that it is for the
                                    interest of the married woman-was considered and passed the
                                    third and last reading: yeas 78, nays 1.

                                On motion of Mr. BLACK, his bill [48] was taken from the table
                                    and placed in the Calendar.

                                The bills [S. 73, 171, 98, 117, 136, shorn of publication
                                    clause,] were passed to the third reading.

                                The bills from the Senate numbered 76, 88, 106, 138, 221 were
                                    severally considered and referred to the Committee on
                                        the Judiciary.

                                The bills [S. 82, 99, 101] were referred to the
                                        Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.

                                The bills [S. 99, 81] were laid on the table

                                The bill [S. 93]-Mr. BUNDY striking out the publication clause-on
                                    motion of Mr. FORD, it was referred to a select committee:
                                    Messrs. Ford, Prosser and Smith of Bartholomew.

                                The bill [S. 203] was referred to the Committe on
                                        Military Affairs.

                                The bill [S. 144], to make the registers, catalogues,
                                    tract-books, plat-books, &c., in the land offices of the
                                    United States in this State, and in the canal and Michigan road
                                    land offices admissible in evidence in civil actions, was passed
                                    the third reading without amendment-yeas 83, nays 0.

                                On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, it was ordered that the Senate bill,
                                    No. 161, for calling on the county treasurers for revenue be
                                    returned, in compliance with their request reported.

                                Mr. Speaker Allen's railroad bill [326] coming up-it was referred
                                    to the Committee on Corporations, with Mr. Fisher's amendment,
                                    striking out the publication clause.

                                

                                Mr. Jenkinson's bill [327], to enfranchise Indians as witnesses,
                                    coming up-

                                Mr. BUNDY proposed to amend by striking out the first section,
                                    and inserting to this effect :

                                No Indian or person having one-eighth or more of negro blood
                                    shall be allowed to testify in the Courts of this State, unless
                                    the matter in suit shall have originated on contract between
                                    such person of mixed blood and such white person, in which case
                                    it shall be lawful for both parties to testify.

                                Mr. BUNDY enforced his amendment upon various considerations.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to lay the bill and amendment on the
                                    table.

                                Mr. JENKINSON demanded a division of the question.

                                The first question, on tabling the amendment, was decided in the
                                    affirmative-yeas 65, nays 14.

                                The second division of the question, the motion to lay the bill
                                    on the table, was decided in the affirmative-yeas 65, nays
                                    13.

                                Mr. ROBERTS moved to reconsider the votes just taken, and to lay
                                    that motion on the table. The latter motion was agreed to.

                                Mr. Parrett's free bank removal bill [329] was ordered to be
                                    engrossed.

                                On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the Judiciary Committee's bill [186],
                                    to authorize the Board of County Commissioners to purchase toll
                                    bridges, or any private interest therein, was taken up and
                                    considered on the third reading.

                                On motion of Mr.FISHER (by consent), the publication clause was
                                    stricken out: and then the bill passed the final reading-yeas
                                    75, nays 4.

                                The Judiciary Committee's bill (160) to amend
                                    section 1 of the act of June 7, 1852, prescribing certain
                                    misdemeanors punishable only by a justice of the peace (defining
                                    assault and increasing the fine to $3), was passed the third
                                    reading-yeas 75, nays 2-with an amendment of title, adding, "and
                                    defining an assault."

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to reconsider this vote, and said he
                                    believed the present act had been declared unconstitutional,
                                    &c.

                                On motion of Mr. GRESHAM, the motion to reconsider was laid on
                                    the table. 
                            
                            

                            
                                RAILROAD LIABILITIES.

                                Mr. Dobbins' railroad bill [60] coming up, on the third reading,
                                    he said it was a compromise bill. It would provide a remedy for
                                    complaints on account of railroad damage to stock. It will
                                    compel the road to use diligence and care at the crossings of
                                    highways. He hoped it would be satisfactory to the people.

                                The bill provides that the full valuation shall be paid at all
                                    points except at towns, cities and crossings of county roads,
                                    and where such roads are not securely fenced; and two-thirds of
                                    the valuation, at all places where stock is killed at the
                                    crossings of county roads, and through towns and cities,
                                    provided that full valuation may be recovered at the crossings
                                    and in the towns and cities, where gross negligence is
                                    proven.

                                Mr. BUNDY thought it contained at least one principle hostile to
                                    the common law. He referred to that principle which makes the
                                    road companies liable for damage at the crossings, without
                                    reference to the carefulness of their employees. He wanted time
                                    to examine it, and moved to lay the bill on the table, but
                                    immediately withdrew the motion for-

                                Mr. BINGHAM. The only feature in the bill that is a departure
                                    from the present statute law, or from any principle of the
                                    common law, was that with reference to the destruction of stock
                                    at the crossings of highways. It was provided that the railroad
                                    company shall be liable for two-thirds the value of the stock
                                    killed at the crossings. This was one deviation ; and there was
                                    another which makes void the decision with reference to
                                    mortgages. And the bill provides that all property the railroad
                                    company may acquire after the rendition of the judgment shall be
                                    subject to the execution and sold, &c. And he submitted if
                                    that was not fair as between the railroads and citizens along
                                    their lines. They run without regard to interests in stock.
                                    There was one exception only-in the Madison and Indianapolis
                                    road-where the engineer is allowed to stop when stock is on the
                                    track. But it was the case with other roads, that it was
                                    generally impossible for them to stop and make time with their
                                    connections. The bill was for the relief of those who were
                                    disturbed by this rule. Then, if these roads must run at a speed
                                    which they cannot afford to arrest for the sake of saving stock,
                                    it was fair and just to assume that they are able to pay the
                                    damage sustained by their act. It was nothing but a mere
                                    incident, that their time table requires them to go through with
                                    such rapidity. This protection was a thing demanded by the
                                    people; and he considered that the demands of the people ought
                                    be regarded in preference to any railroad interest.

                                Mr. DAVIS thought the bill was right.

                                Mr. CASON looked upon the provisions of the bill as
                                    unconstitutional. How can this Legislature prescribe a lien to
                                    vest in property to be acquired? All this legislation tends to
                                    encourage carelessness on the part of farmers along the line;
                                    and sometimes this results in throwing cars from the track, and
                                    the injury of innocent parties. The law should contemplate such
                                    carelessness as a criminal act, and as for the roads,
                                    legislation should respect only the police regulations for
                                    running them.

                                Mr. BINGHAM. If these roads will run-through our grounds, it
                                    should be done on our terms, and not on theirs, to the
                                    restriction of our privilege to allow stock to graze on the
                                    common.

                                Mr. CASON spoke farther against legislative encouragement to
                                    farmers to drive their 
                                    dead stock on the track, to be more completely killed, in order
                                    to get damages.

                                Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and there was a
                                    second.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG pro forma. There are two
                                    objectionable points. It gives unlimited jurisdiction to
                                    justices of the peace. It makes 'the execution of the judgment
                                    of a justice a lien on real estate.

                                The vote was reported-yeas 43, nays 32.

                                So the bill failed for want of a constitutional majority-51.

                                On motion by Mr. STOTSENBERG, the bill was recommitted to the
                                        Committee on the Judiciary, with
                                    instructions to report amendments, in accordance with the two
                                    points suggested before by him. 
                            
                            

                            
                                LAW OF EVIDENCE.

                                Mr. HEFFREN, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                    returned Mr. Speaker Allen's Evidence bill. [133] with an
                                    amendment, by way of new matter, providing that any competent
                                    person may testify in his own behalf, and compel the other party
                                    to testify; and the witness shall be regarded only as to his
                                    character for credibility. Insane persons, and husbands and
                                    wives and clergymen are not included. And there is a provision,
                                    that where a person is excluded on account of mixed blood, his
                                    opponent in the contest shall also be excluded.

                                The amendment was agreed to.

                                Mr. VEATCH suggested further amendments, in cases where a
                                    guardian is a party.

                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the subject was made a special order
                                    for Monday, 3 o'clock P. M.

                                Mr. DAVIS submitted a preamble and resolution :

                                
                                    
                                        
                                             WHEREAS, the House agreed, at an
                                                early day of the session, to take 7,000 copies of
                                                the Governor's Message; and whereas, not more than
                                                15 or 20 copies thereof have been furnished to each
                                                member; therefore

                                            Resolved, That this House will not
                                                receive nor pay for any more copies of the
                                                Governor's Message which may be hereafter
                                                delivered.
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                                Mr. HEFFREN. The copies ordered have all been printed and
                                    furnished, and paid for. The distribution here is another
                                    matter.

                                Mr. BUNDY made an ineffectual motion to lay the resolution on the
                                    table.

                                No quorum voting on its adoption, it was ordered to be laid
                                    over.

                                On motion by Mr. GRESHAM, his military bill [105] was taken up
                                    and made a special order for Tuesday, 10 o'clock.

                                Mr. SLOAN, from the Committee on Claims,
                                    returned Mr. Cameron's Peace Commissioners' pay bill, [305]
                                    without amendment; and it was ordered to be engrossed.

                                On the motion of Mr. CASON, Mr. Jones of Vermillion's 8th Circuit
                                    bill [51] was taken up and referred to a Select Committee.

                                Mr. BRETT submitted a resolution, which was adopted ; viz:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That the Select
                                                Committee of Five, appointed under a resolution of
                                                the House to investigate the acts of the trustees of
                                                the Wabash and Erie Canal, and examine the canal
                                                office at Terre Haute, be authorized to sit, after
                                                the adjournment of the present session of the
                                                Legislature for a period not exceeding 20 days: and
                                                that the members of said Committee be allowed the
                                                same per diem as members of the Legislature---the
                                                same to be certified by the Chairman of the said
                                                Committee.
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                                Mr. ROBERTS [by leave] introduced a bill [333] To establish the
                                    weight of mineral coal, mined without and sold within this
                                    State, and repealing all laws in conflict therewith. (80 lbs. to
                                    the bushel.)

                                Mr. VEATCH introduced a bill [334] To amend the act providing for
                                    the election of Trustees and Commissioners of the Benevolent
                                    Institutions of the State, approved March 5, 1859.

                                These bills were passed to the second reading.

                                The House then adjourned till Monday morning, 9 o'clock. 
                            
                            
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        MONDAY, March 4, 1861.

                        On motion by Mr. MURRAY the reading of Saturday's journal was dispensed
                            with.

                        Mr. WILSON presented a petition from 716 citizens of Sullivan county in
                            favor of the adjustment of our national difficulties upon the basis of
                            the Crittenden proposition, or some equally fair and honorable basis;
                            which was referred to the Committee on Federal
                                Relations under the rule. 

                        
                            REPORTS FROM THE JUDICIARY
                                    COMMITTEE

                            Were made and concurred in as follows (except in one case named):

                            

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: returning Senator Miller's bill 103 -see page
                                    159 of these Reports-recommending indefinite
                                    postponement.

                                Also Senator White's bill 243-see page 279-recommending that
                                    it lie on the table for the reason that a bill has already
                                    passed the Senate embracing the same subject matter.

                                By Mr. MARCH: returning the petition asking for an increase of
                                    property exempt from execution, recommending that it lie on the
                                    table, as there is a Senate bill on the third reading embracing
                                    the same subject. Also the bill S. 265, recommending
                                    passage.

                                By Mr. MELLETT: returning Senator Dickinson's bill 168-see
                                    page 212-recommending that it lie on the table.

                                [Mr. DICKINSON made an ineffectual motion to amend this report
                                    of the committee by recommending that the bill be put upon its
                                    passage.]

                                By Mr. STUDABAKER: returning Senator O'Brien's bill 213-see
                                    page 249 of these Reports-recommending indefinite postponement.
                                    Also Senator Ferguson's 174-see page 212-recommending that it
                                    lie on the table.

                                By Mr. MILLER: returning Senator Newcomb's bill 250,
                                    recommending passage. The report was rejected and the bill laid
                                    on the table. Also the bill H. R. 30 to amend section 78 of the
                                    practice act, recommending passage.

                                By Mr. CONNER: returning the bill S. 268, recommending
                                    passage. Also the estates of absent person's bill H. R. 44,
                                    recommending passage with an amendment striking out "3" and
                                    inserting "7."
                            

                            Mr. NEWCOMB presented a claim of W. R. Nofsinger, for services, while
                                Treasurer of State in the year 1857-8, as treasurer ex-officio of the Institution of the Blind $200 00, and
                                Deaf and Dumb $100 00; which was referred to the Committee
                                    on Claims. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NEW PROPOSITIONS.

                            Mr. JOHNSON introduced a bill [275] to amend an act authorizing a
                                limit of allowance by courts, &c., approved May 27, 1852.

                            Mr. MURRAY introduced a bill,[276] to district the State of Indiana
                                for the purpose  of electing
                                members to the Congress of the U. S. of America.

                             Mr. MARCH offered the following, which was adopted by consent: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                             Resolved, That the Auditor of State
                                            be requested to report to the Senate, at the earliest
                                            moment possible, the amount of money expended each year
                                            by the board of colonization since its organization, and
                                            for what purpose; the number of persons that have been
                                            colonized; what amount of funds is now under the control
                                            of the Board, and whence derived.
                                    
                                    

                                
                            

                            Mr. HULL, from the Committee on Roads, returned Senator Carnahan's
                                bill 122-see page 163 of these Reports-recommending passage with
                                amendment.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN made an ineffectual motion to lay the bill on the
                                table.

                            The committee report was concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, his bill 250, reported from the
                                    Judiciary Committee this morning, was taken
                                from the table. He thought the bill a just one, and that it ought to
                                pass. All it asks is, that lawyers shall be placed on the same
                                footing with other men.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. It is due to the citizens of I make it the special
                                order for that hour. the State that this bill should pass. 

                            Mr. MILLER was sorry to see a disposition manifested here as against
                                the legal profession. There is certainly no reason why men in other
                                avocations in life should put there feet upon the necks of
                                attorneys. 

                            Mr. MURRAY. If attorneys could be made responsible for the fees they
                                collect, he would be willing to vote for this bill. Attorneys have
                                the advantage, as the law now is, when they get fees in their
                                possession.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS moved to concur with an amendment, viz : "The provisions
                                of the above act shall apply only to judgments obtained, and to
                                other business done, for non-residents of the State."

                            Mr. WAGNER. This bill ought to pass, but with it another proposition.
                                He moved to recommit the bill with instructions to so amend as to
                                give landlords a lien upon the tenants' crop to secure the rent.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL would vote for either or both of these
                                propositions-separately or together.

                            The motion to recommit was agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            WORK FOK COMMITTEES.

                            The following bills were read the second time, and disposed of as
                                recited.

                            
                                Senator Newcomb's 274, to the Committee on
                                        Organisation of Courts, and Senator March's 273,
                                    to the Judiciary Committee-both introduced
                                    Saturday.

                                The bills H.R. 72, 82,159, 176,160, 186 were ordered
                                    engrossed.

                                The bill H. R. 122 was referred to Senators Johnson, Conley,
                                    Wilson, Steele and Tarkington.

                                H. R. 89 was referred to the Committee on
                                        Banks.

                                H. R. 91 to the Committee on
                                    Corporations.

                                H. R. 322 to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                                H. R. 313 to the Committee on Federal
                                        Relations.
                            

                            Mr. MELLETT, from the Committe on Finance returned
                                Senator Shoemaker's bill 259 recommending that it lie on the
                                table.

                            Mr. HAMILTON: From the Committee on Finance
                                returned Senator Wilson's bill 196-see page 237-recommending
                                passage.

                            These reports concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.

                            Mr. Claypool, from the Committee on Finance ,
                                submitted a report, as follows:

                            Mr. President: The Committee on Finance to whom
                                was referred a resolution of the Senate directing the Door-keeper of
                                the Senate to contract with the Messrs. Drapier for the purchase of
                                600 copies of the "Brevier Legislative Reports," have considered the
                                same and have directed me to report the same back to the Senate,
                                [the resolution is printed on page 233 of these Reports], and
                                recommend that said doorkeeper be instructed to contract for 600
                                copies of said reports,for the use of the Senators, at a cost not
                                exceeding one dollar per copy, as specified in said resolution. Your
                                committee take this occasion to say that said reports are not as
                                full as they could desire. Said committee would further recommend
                                that the Senate by law provide for the employment of a Reporter of
                                its proceedings hereafter which shall be under the control and
                                direction of the Senate.

                            Mr. WAGNER. As a matter of course there is no disposition to pass
                                upon this matter until the Senate shall be fuller. I move to
                                postpone it till this afternoon at 4 o'clock, and make it the
                                special order for that hour. 

                            The motion to postpone was agreed to.

                            Mr. March, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                his appeal bill, 223-see page 267 of these Reports-recommending
                                passage.

                             The report was concurred in.

                            Then, at (11 1/2) came the recess till 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            The bill H. R. 161, which was passed Saturday morning, the vote
                                reconsidered in the afternoon, that an emergency clause might be
                                added, and the bill again placed on the files, was read the third
                                time and finally passed by yeas 42, nays 2.

                            A message from the Governor announced his approval of the Senate
                                bills, Mr. Cravens' 12, Mr. Line's 24, Mr. Turner's 29, and Mr.
                                Wilson's 44.

                            The PRESIDENT announced the special order for this hour to be the
                                consideration of the common school bill 217-described on page 249 of
                                these Reports-which was read the third time.

                            Mr. MURRAY and Mr. WILLIAMS, by unanimous consent, made several
                                immaterial amendments thereto.

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, and by unanimous consent, the section which
                                makes the State Superintendent an ex-officio
                                member of the Board of Trustees of the Institutions of the Deaf and
                                Dumb and the Blind, was stricken out.

                            Mr. JOHNSON made an ineffectual motion-yeas 15, nays 29-to recommit
                                the bill with instructions to strike out all that relates to a tax
                                for township libraries.

                            Mr. MURRAY moved to recommit the bill with the following
                                instructions:

                            To strike out the words "if practicable" ["the superintendent shall
                                visit each county in the State at least once a year"]: and the words
                                "his county shall be subject to a diminution of $100 in the next
                                apportionment of said revenue by the superintendent,"on failure of
                                any county  auditor to make his
                                said semi-annual reports in time for said apportionments"] and the
                                words "failure to make the required reports at the proper time,
                                shall subject the county to a diminution of $50 of its apportionment
                                of the common school revenue which shall be withheld by the
                                superintendent when he makes the apportionment in April;" and the
                                words "failure on the part of the trustees to make the aforesaid
                                report at the time specified shall subject the township to a
                                diminution of $25 of its next apportionment of the common school
                                revenue, which shall be withheld by the auditor when he makes snch
                                apportionment."

                            On motion by Mr. LINE-yeas 30, nays 16-this motion to recommit was
                                laid on the table.

                            Mr. COBB moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to strike out
                                all that relates to the duties of school examiners, except that
                                which relates to the signing of certificates by teachers.

                            Mr. COBB. Our school system has been somewhat defective, and we
                                ought, if possible, to remedy that defect. But while we do that, I
                                submit we ought not to burden the bill with such a heavy expense as
                                would follow, unless this amendment be adopted. This school examiner
                                is authorized to do certain works by which he will be able to spend
                                half his time in superintending the schools of the several counties;
                                and while the benefits arising here from will amount to nothing, the
                                expenses would be enormous, and would cripple the system.

                            Mr. CRAVEN. I think the bill should be corrected upon that point.

                            Mr. MILLER. The great defect in the system heretofore has been that
                                there has been no medium of communication between the superintendent
                                of public instruction and the subordinate school officers. * * * The
                                bill provides for but one examiner who will perform all the duties
                                that the three did under the old law, &c.

                            Mr. COBB withheld his motion for-

                            Mr. MILLER, who amended the bill, by unanimous consent, so as to
                                limit the compensation of the examiner to $100; and Mr. MURRAY, who
                                amended the bill, by consent, by striking out the words "if
                                practicable," as he first proposed in his series of amendments above
                                recited. 

                            The motion to recommit was rejected.

                            Mr. ANTHONY made an ineffectual motion to amend the bill so as to
                                provide in all incorporated towns and cities containing not less
                                than. 10,000 inhabitants, there may be appointed an additional
                                number of trustees, &c.

                            Mr. WOLFE moved to recommit the bill with instructions to amend so as
                                to provide for the election of three trustees, for incorporated
                                towns and cities. 

                            On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL-yeas 32, nays 11--- this motion was laid on
                                the table.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL demanded the previous question, and 27 Senators
                                seconding the demand, the bill was finally passed by yeas 30, nays
                                16. 


                            
                                THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.

                                The PRESIDENT announced the special order for 4 o'clock to be the
                                    consideration of a report from the Finance
                                        committee-printed in this forenoon's
                                    proceedings.

                                The report was read by the Secretary-

                                The PRESIDENT. What disposition will the Senate make of the
                                    report ?

                                Mr. MURRAY. I move to strike out all that refers to the
                                    employment of a Reporter.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL. The report simply makes a suggestion with regard to
                                    that-there is nothing of that but a suggestion.

                                Mr. WAGNER. .This is simply a suggestion of the gentlemen making
                                    the report of the propriety of providing by law for a
                                    Reporter-there is nothing binding in that.

                                Mr. MURRAY. I withdraw my motion.

                                The PRESIDENT. There being no objection the report of the
                                    Committee is concurred in. 
                            
                            

                            
                                AID FOR THE SUFFERING IN KANSAS.

                                Mr. CONLEY, from the Committee on Finance,
                                    returned his resolution-see page 233 of these
                                    Reports-recommending that it be laid on the table, for the
                                    reason that the committee are of opinion, from information
                                    recently received, that sufficient aid has already been
                                    obtained.

                                Mr. WAGNER, from a Select Committee, returned the bill [H. R.
                                    199], enabling county agricultural societies to hold real estate
                                    and issue capital stock, recommending passage. 
                            
                            

                            
                                INTEREST LAW.

                                Mr. STEELE from a Select Committee, returned the bill H. R.
                                    84-see page 274 of these Reports-recommending passage.

                                Mr. MARCH. There were some amendments which went to the
                                    committee. I hold them in my hand, and I now move concurrence in
                                    the committee's report, with these amendments in their order.
                                    (He explained the effects of the amendments.) I should prefer,
                                    also, that the proposition of the Senator from Putnam (Mr.
                                    Johnson) be annexed to the bill, making it a criminal offence
                                    for any person to take more than ten per cent., and if the party
                                    take over ten per cent, it should be recovered back. I believe
                                    these amendments are absolutely necessary to carry out in good
                                    faith the object of the bill.

                                The Secretary read the first amendment:

                                Strike out all of the 5th section after the word "if," and insert
                                    "a greater rate of interest than $6 a year for $100 shall have
                                    been paid thereon, whether in advance or not, judgment shall be
                                    rendered only for the amount of the principle, deducting the
                                    excess of interest thus paid at the time paid."

                                Mr. STEELE. I take this bill to be a compromise between six per
                                    cent, and ten per cent. All restrictions with regard to the loan
                                    of money, don't amount to a "hill of beans," as is the common
                                    expression. The discretion is exclusively with the loaner, it is
                                    not with the lender. The bill has been matured well, and passed
                                    by an overwhelming majority in the House.

                                Mr. CARNAHAN. I am entirely opposed to this whole matter. Who is
                                    calling for a  change ? I
                                    have not seen a man in Indiana, unless he is a money-lender-a
                                    shaver. How long did a similar law to this remain on our I
                                    statute book ? Not longer than from one session to another. Why
                                    this eternal call for "change," "change"? This is a very bad
                                    time to make a change of this character. I move to indefinitely
                                    postpone the bill and pending amendments.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL. This bill, if passed, will act to the injury of
                                    banks of deposit, and will redound to the interest of every
                                    private citizen who has money to loan. He objected to the
                                    amendment.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON. I am opposed to the general principles of the
                                    bill. I believe the true interests of our country demand a low
                                    rate of interest, and for that reason I shall vote for the
                                    amendment.

                                Mr. SLACK. Where is the State that has had a high rate of
                                    interest that has not returned to a lower rate ? I approbate the
                                    motion to postpone indefinitely.

                                Mr. WOLFE. I am opposed to the indefinite postponement of the
                                    bill, and in favor of the passage of the bill, with or without
                                    the amendment. I should not vote for any bill that would compel
                                    the payment of more than six per cent. Pass this law, and if the
                                    barrower feels able to pay more, and is willing, it is nobody's
                                    business but his; and should the case get into court the lender
                                    will get his six per cent., which would be his just due.

                                Mr. LANDERS. I am inclined to favor this bill from the fact that
                                    I believe it will tend to lower the rate of interest. Pass this
                                    law, and it will bring about a competition between the bankers
                                    and the farmers to some extent. It is not such a bill as I would
                                    draw up exactly, for I would prefer that no rate of interest be
                                    allowed above six per cent.

                                Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question and there being a
                                    second, the motion to indefinitely postpone the amendment was
                                    rejected by yeas 21, nays 24.

                                The motion to indefinitely postpone the bill was also rejected by
                                    yeas 13, nays 34.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL made an ineffectual motion-yeas 22, nays 34-to lay
                                    the amendment on the table.

                                The amendment was then agreed to.

                                Mr. WILLIAMS made an ineffectual motion to make this subject the
                                    special order for tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock.

                                Mr. MARCH moved further to amend as follows:

                                If the contract has been renewed or the security thereon changed
                                    once or more, in calculating the amount on the judgment, credit
                                    shall be given for the payments made whether in advance or
                                    not.

                                On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL-yeas 24, nays 21-this amendment was
                                    laid on the table.

                                Mr. MELLETT moved that the bill be considered as engrossed and
                                    read the third time now.

                                An ineffectual motion was made to adjourn.

                                Mr. Mellett's motion was agreed to, and the bill was read the
                                    third time.

                                Mr. MELLETT demanded the previous question., and there was a
                                    second.

                                Mr. MARCH, (pro forma,) I am willing to vote
                                    for a fair bill on this subject, but won't, vote for a bill that
                                    holds out one thing and contemplates another.

                                The bill finally passed-yeas 30, nays 15.

                                And then the Senate adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY, March 4, 1861.
                        

                        On motion of Mr. ATKISSON, his bill [90] was taken from the table and
                            placed on the calendar. 

                        
                            PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB presented the memorial of O. L. Lance and others, praying
                                for legislation giving justices of the peace power, and making it
                                their duty to inquire into all violations of law, &c.; which was
                                referred to the Committee on Organizations of
                                    Courts.

                            He also presented a memorial for instructing the Peace Commissioners:
                                which was referred to the Committee of Thirteen.
                            
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES.

                            Mr. RAGAN. from the Committee on Elections,
                                reported Mr. Comb's credentials, heretofore reported as mislaid.

                            Mr. BUNDY, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned a resolution for amendment of the Constitution, and
                                reported thereupon a joint resolution [36] proposing to the next
                                General Assembly, and if two-thirds concur, then to the people, to
                                amend article 4, section 9, of the Constitution of the State of
                                Indiana, so as to require annual sessions of of the General
                                Assembly-commencing on Thursday after the first Monday in January of
                                each year.

                            On motion of Mr. STOTSENBERG, the resolution was made the special
                                order for Wednesday, 10 o'clock.

                            Mr. WOODHULL returned Mr. McLean's drugged-liquor felony bill [253],
                                recommending indefinite postponement.

                            Also, Mr. Stotsenberg's salary bill [276], and Mr. Stotsenberg's
                                assignment bill [278], recommending indefinite postponement: which
                                reports were severally concurred in.

                            Mr. GROVER, from the Committee on Education,
                                returned Mr. Veatch's normal school bill [292], with a motion to lay
                                it on the table the establishment of such a school being inexpedient
                                at this time, owing to the condition of the treasury: which report
                                was concurred in.

                            Mr. MOODY, from the Committee on Swamp Lands,
                                returned Mr. Cooprider's bill [204], with an amendment, striking out
                                all after the enacting clause and inserting new matter, providing
                                that the county commissioners, on the petition of a majority of the
                                legal voters residing in the township, where said ditch or  ditches may be situated, and
                                on newspaper or other notice of 20 days before their session at
                                which time said petition is to be heard, shall have power, if the
                                said board shall be satisfied that the public good requires it, to
                                declare such ditch, &c., a public highway : and the supervisor
                                shall keep it open as other public highways.

                            The report was laid on the table-Mr. Cooprider being absent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THOMAS HALBERT.

                            Mr. ATKISSON, from a majority of the Committee on Claims, returned
                                the petitions, &c., for the relief of Thomas Halbert, treasurer
                                of Martin county, from the repayment of $23,000 taken by burglars
                                from the county safe on the 12th of last December, reporting a
                                resolution discharging him, &c.

                            Mr. SLOAN (with Mr. Boydston), the minority of said committee,
                                reported that the discharge of said Halbert would be not only a
                                violation of the act providing for the safe keeping and disbursement
                                of the public funds, but it would establish a precedent dangerous to
                                the security of the public funds in every department of the
                                government-all public officers having already assumed for themselves
                                and their securities all the responsibilities pertaining to the
                                acceptance of said offices.

                            Mr. PARRETT. To concur in the majority report would be doing what is
                                absolutely wrong. So long as a single man in Martin county
                                remonstrates against that thing, we have no right to pass this joint
                                resolution. &c.

                            Mr. DOBBINS. There was little danger in a precedent established,
                                where there is proof of innocence and honesty. In the session of
                                1855, a bill was passed for the release of the treasurer of Lake
                                county from the repayment of $3,000, &c.

                            Mr. BLACK. Mr. Halbert was keeping the fund in the place where he was
                                directed by the Board of Commissioners to deposit, &c.

                            Mr. SLOAN supposed Mr. Halbert was innocent in the case, but there
                                had been no evidence except the petition and remonstrance before the
                                committee in regard to that.

                            Mr. DAVIS should vote for discharge. He did not care for precedents
                                where the right was clear.

                            Mr. PACKARD supported the majority report.

                            Mr. GROVER said $1,014 50 of this money belonged to the school fund,
                                besides other items. For this reason he objected to the release of
                                Mr. Halbert.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and the majority report
                                was rejected-yeas 19, nays 54.Mr. SLOAN returned the claim of Clark
                                Devoll and Nelson Fordyce for $499 99, recommending that it be paid
                                out of the Boone county swamp land fund.

                            Mr. CASON. This claim was filed here simply that there might be a
                                proper voucher placed in the hands of the accounting officer-the
                                original voucher having being lost. He knew personally that this
                                claim is just. On his motion, the report was recommitted, with
                                instructions to report a joint resolution allowing the claim.

                            Mr. DOBBINS, returned the claim of N. Cunningham for one and a fourth
                                per cent, for receiving and disbursing the swampland fund from the
                                9th of February, 1859, to the 9th of February, 1861, recommending
                                its allowance, as heretofore, and that it be referred to the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means.

                            Mr. SLOAN submitted a minority report, admitting the precedent, but
                                by reference to the act of March 5, 1859, they find that the first
                                section provides that the Treasurer of State shall receive $3,000
                                for his services; and in another section, it is provided that he
                                shall receive no other compensation whatever.

                            On the motion of Mr. CAMERON, the minority was substituted for the
                                majority report, and then it was concurred in.

                            Mr. WELLS, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr. Bundy's bill
                                [321], with the amendments proposed thereto, recommending that they
                                be laid on the table.

                            Mr. ORR returned the remonstrance against the passage of the Fish
                                bill, recommending that it be laid on the table.

                            Which reports were concurred in.

                            Mr. HOLCOMB returned the resolution for amendment of the law for the
                                election of Supervisors, so as to require them to give bond and
                                security, and thereupon reported a bill [335] to amend the 5th
                                section of the act of March 5, 1859, providing for the election or
                                appointment of supervisors, &c.. which was passed to the second
                                reading.

                            Mr. FRASIER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                    Business, returned Mr. Woods' bill [212] to amend
                                sections 123, 136, and repeal sections 138, 139. 140 of the
                                assessment act, recommending its passage. [It authorizes the county
                                auditor to send to the Treasurer of State an abstract, instead of a
                                copy of the delinquent list; and it provides, also, that the
                                delinquent taxes shall be paid into the State Treasury.] It was
                                ordered to be engrossed.

                            Mr. THOMPSON, from a majority of the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned Mr. Fisher's bill [117] appropriating $4,000 a year for
                                1861 and 1862 in addition to the $1,000 a year to the State Board of
                                Agriculture, recommending its passage.

                            Mr. MOORMAN submitted a minority report, recommending that the bill
                                be indefinitely postponed.

                            Mr. CAMERON moved to substitute the minority report for the majority
                                report.

                            Mr. FISHER showed the necessity and advantage of this appropriation.
                                The Board was $9,000 in debt.

                            Mr. GRESHAM supported the bill.

                            Mr. CAMERON and Mr. JENKINSON opposed.

                            Mr. NEBEKER demanded the previous  question, and under its force the minority report was
                                adopted-yeas 50, nays 25 : so the bill was indefinitely
                                postponed.

                            Mr. CAMERON, from the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions, submitted a report in writing on the
                                condition of the various Benevolent Institutions of the State,
                                commending both their financial management, and the present law
                                regulating them.

                            On motion by Mr. ANDERSON, the report was referred to the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means.

                            Mr. PARRETT, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned Mr. Stotsenberg's City Corporation bill [265] recommending
                                that it be laid on the table. He explained that the object of the
                                bill was to go back to the provision of the act of 1857, which was
                                amended at the last session. It was to return to this: " Provided
                                that territory of five hundred acres and upward, belonging to one
                                individual, and used for gardening or agricultural purposes, shall
                                not be annexed without the consent of the owner or owners
                                thereof."

                            Mr. KENDRICK was against the report Because a man owned enough ground
                                to make a corn-field or a clover-field, was he to be exempted from
                                city taxation? We wanted to tax men in cities in proportion to the
                                amount they own.

                            The report, was concurred in, and the bill laid on the table : yeas
                                41, nays 23.

                            Mr. PARRETT, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned Mr. Campbell's University bill [320], with an amendment,
                                striking out"William T. Otto," and inserting "Joseph H. Defrees, of
                                Elkhart county."

                            Mr. GROVER believed this bill provides for the Board being
                                self-perpetuating. He wished to avoid the scramble as between
                                religious denominations for the control of this institution ; and
                                believing that the present law operated satisfactorily, he moved to
                                lay the bill and amendment on the table.

                            The motion was agreed to. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ASYLUM FOR INEBRIATES.

                            Mr. BUNDY, from the Select Committee thereon, returned Mr. Veatch's
                                bill [198] for the erection of an asylum for Inebriates, with an
                                amendment, striking out from the first section all after the
                                enacting clause, and inserting these words:"

                            That so much of the moneys arising from licenses for the sale of
                                spirituous and intoxicating liquors, as may be necessary for the
                                purpose, are hereby set apart and specially appropiated for the
                                purpose of building and conducting an asylum for inebriates."

                            Mr. B. supported this proposition. There were $60,000 yearly
                                collected in this State for liquor licenses.

                            On motion by Mr. GRESHAM, the subject, was laid on the table. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON SCHOOLS.

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on Education, [by
                                unanimous consent,] returned the common school bill [61], with two
                                points of amendment, viz.:

                            1st. To amend section 46, so as to allow the County School Examiner a
                                fee of one dollar for each teacher, and fifty cents for each female
                                teacher examined for license, and be paid by the applicant; and that
                                for all other services he shall be allowed by the County Board a sum
                                not exceeding $100 a year.

                            2d. Amend the bill as to salary of the State Superintendent, so as to
                                make it the same as now allowed by law; and to allow him for clerk
                                hire a sum not exceeding $800 a year.

                            Mr. V said this proposition would not make a difference of ten
                                dollars above the expense of fees now paid to the county auditors.
                                He asked for the sense of the House on these two points.

                            Mr. RAGAN offered various considerations in favor of their
                                adoption.

                            Mr. PROSSER saw in this an annual expense of $9,200 of the school
                                fund.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Sir, it is a strange thing, that a question of dollars
                                and cents is to take the place and be weighed as against the
                                learning and intelligence of the youth of the State. Sir, the State
                                of Indiana has been sunk down on the scale of States under the
                                census report ten years. How often have we been told, that there
                                were severity thousand persons in this State that could not read and
                                write-that these seventy thousand when called upon to sign a note,
                                bond, or whatsoever, were obliged to pick up the pen and. make their
                                mark. How long shall we pursue this policy which has brought shame
                                and reproach upon our State?

                            Mr. PACKARD demanded the previous question, and under its operation
                                the first amendment was adopted-Mr. Smith of Bartholomew asking to
                                be excused from voting, because of his fixed opposition to creating
                                more salaried officers.

                            The vote stood-yeas 63, nays 15. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            The question on the second proposition to amend the school bill,
                                reported from the Committee on Education, viz.:
                                that respecting the salaries in the Superintendent's office, was
                                decided in the affirmative, yeas 59, nays 22: so the proposition was
                                agreed to. 

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend by inserting appropriately' "But
                                nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to hinder the
                                people or the corpoaate authorities of any town or city from
                                electing more than one school trustee, according to the provisions
                                of the ordinances thereof; and said trustees shall be governed in
                                all respects by the provisions of this act:" which was agreed
                                to.

                            On motion by Mr. VEATCH, the bill was now recommitted.

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, the Senate's amendment to the treasury
                                system bill [161J adding the emergency clause, was taken up and
                                concurred in.

                            

                            Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and Means
                                reported a bill [336] making general appropriations for the years
                                1861 and 1862.

                            Mr. KITCHEN : [337] to amend section 1 of the act to regulate the
                                mileage of sheriffs in conveying convicts to the penitentiary, and
                                of country treasurers in making their deposits and settlements, and
                                of the members of the General Assembly.

                            Mr. LEE submitted an order to withdraw from the Senate Mr. Jones of
                                Vermillion's bill [122] for amendment.

                            Mr. JONES, of Vermillion, opposed the order.

                            Mr. McLEAN insisted that the House could not have understood the
                                character of the bill. The law of 1859 reduced the Common Pleas
                                districts from 60 to 20-the judges to be paid by the committees with
                                an average of five counties to a district, and he alleged that this
                                bill proposed to throw an undue burden on the counties of Vigo and
                                Sullivan.

                            Mr. HEFFREN opposed.

                            The order was rejected. 


                            
                                SWAMP LAND FUNDS.

                                The SPEAKER announced the special order, the consideration of the
                                    joint resolution for a joint committee to investigate the swamp
                                    land funds, reported last Thursday night.

                                Mr. MOODY would ask again for the respectful attention of the
                                    House to the importance of ordering the proposed investigation.
                                    He lived in a county particularly interested in this matter,
                                    whose people had been seriously injured by negligences and
                                    frauds upon the swamp land funds. There thousands of acres that
                                    might have been brought up to cultivation, were still useless
                                    because of these things. It would not have required more than
                                    what the lands would have commanded, at a fair sale, to have
                                    done it. &c. Not to order this investigation, would be to
                                    say to all men interested, as these commissioners have been, "go
                                    on and commit all the frauds and peculations you please on the
                                    lands which the State owns; and if you succeed, though there may
                                    be a question as to any recovery, we will say nothing about it;
                                    we will make no investigation; we will not attempt to bring any
                                    of you to justice, &c.

                                Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend by inserting these words in the
                                    proper place : "And they shall have power to attach and punish
                                    for contempt on the part of witnesses, and others, and compel
                                    their attendance before the Committee; and be empowered to do
                                    all that this House might do for the purposes mentioned."He
                                    supported it with a speech.

                                Mr. PACKARD would not stand below any man in earnestness for this
                                    investigation, but he did not approve the method proposed. He
                                    should think the Attorney-the man elected to conserve the legal
                                    interests of the State was the proper man for this service. It
                                    would save two thirds the expense. The matter-would have to go
                                    into his hands to prosecute at last.

                                Mr. WOODHULL intimated that if the Swamp Land
                                        Committee had been diligent this business might
                                    have been in a better state of forwardness. That every dime
                                    expended for the recovery of this kind, would cost the State at
                                    least a shilling, &c.

                                Mr. DOBBINS defended the committee. Part of the object was to
                                    investigate in the several counties, with'reference to the idea
                                    of recovering lands for the school fund which have been
                                    fraudulently conveyed. Certainly, most enormous frauds had been
                                    committed.

                                Mr. JENKINSON wanted this committee appointed, and a full and
                                    fair investigation. If it did not no more than pay the expenses
                                    of the investigation, it, might prevent robberies for the
                                    future.

                                Mr. FRASIER suggested the magnitude of the expense of this
                                    examination if it had been attempted, as Mr. Woodhull suggested,
                                    in this city. He said it was not to be supposed that the
                                    Attorney General could do the work. It was simply
                                    preposterous.

                                Mr. BRETT was a member of the Swamp Land Committee. He knew of
                                    but two meetings of the committee. The proposition was broached
                                    at the first meeting. He also thought the committee might have
                                    acted with more efficiency, and presented matter for action
                                    before this time.

                                Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, concurred with Mr. Woodhull, that every
                                    dime recovered for this fund would cost 15 cents. He was opposed
                                    generally to investigating committees.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG also agreed with Mr. Woodhull. These committees
                                    were made generally for buncumbe. He referred to the case of the
                                    late investigations of the agent of State, the report of which
                                    was not printed and remained useless ; and the swamp lands
                                    report also, which had been printed, but which gentlemen
                                    overlooked in their eagerness to make more reports. He submitted
                                    that these matters were not availed of here. The swamp land
                                    committee had not availed themselves of important
                                    recommendations proposed in the report of two years ago.

                                Mr. BUNDY proposed to add, "provided that no money shall be drawn
                                    from the treasury for the purposes of payment of the expenses of
                                    this investigation; but these expenses shall be chargeable
                                    wholly to the swamp land fund, and be made payable out of no
                                    other fund:" which he supported in speech.

                                The SPEAKER ruled it out of order.

                                Mr. BLACK. Has any fraud been committed since the last
                                    report?

                                Mr. MOODY could not answer. He defended the swamp land committee
                                    more at length. He was unwilling to make any investigation that
                                    should not be thorough. He would accept the proposition of Mr.
                                    Bundy, but the constitution provided how the swamp land fund
                                    should be applied.

                                

                                Mr. BRANHAM. A little over $300,000 had been drawn on account of
                                    swamp lauds. Then was now in abeyance land enough to pay for one
                                    hundred such investigations. But the would not stop on account
                                    of cost for one moment. It was a principle that actuated him. He
                                    would state that two members of the committee to examine the
                                    office of the agent of State, paid their own expenses to New
                                    York and back. All the expense of that investigation was about
                                    $1,500, which the clerk got Their report shows the necessity of
                                    the investigation. It was too voluminous to print, but it was
                                    open for inspection, and would be used to trace discrepancies to
                                    important results.

                                Mr. ATKISSON opposed investigating committees generally, and
                                    complained of the inaction of the standing committee.

                                Under the restraint of the previous question,

                                Mr. PACKARD (pro forma) desired to have had an
                                    opportunity to limit the time of the committee, and to provide
                                    that no member of the standing committee shall serve on the join
                                    select committee.

                                Mr. BRETT and Mr. RANDALL. There had been nothing before this
                                    committee to satisfy them of the necessity for this
                                    investigation.

                                Mr. BRYANT defended the committee from the general charge of lack
                                    of diligence. He should vote for the investigation, not
                                    expecting it to result in any pecuniary advantage to the
                                    State.

                                The vote was reported-yeas 65, nays 22, as follows:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Boydston, Branham,
                                                Brucker, Bryan, Burgess, Cameron, Cason, Collins of
                                                Whitley, Crain, Dashiel, Davis, Dobbins, Epperson,
                                                Erwin, Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher, Fordyce, Fraley,
                                                Frasier, Gore, Gresham, Grover, Hall, Haworth,
                                                Heffren, Henricks, Hopkins, Horton, Hudson, Hurd,
                                                Jenkinson, Jones of Tippecanoe, Jones of Vermillion,
                                                Jones of Wayne, Kendrick, Kitchen, Lee, Lightner,
                                                McLean, Moody, Moorman, Moss, Nebeker, Newman,
                                                Parrett, Pitts, Prosser, Prow, Robbins, Roberts,
                                                Sherman, Sloan, Stevenson, Stotsenberg, Thomas,
                                                Thompson, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Wells,
                                                Williams, Wilson, Woods, and Mr. Speaker65.

                                            NAYS-Messrs. Anderson, Atkisson,
                                                Black, Brett, Bundy, Campbell, Combs, Fleming, Ford,
                                                Hayes, Holcomb, Howard, Lods, Lane, Orr, Packard,
                                                Polk, Eandall, Smith of Bartholomew, Trier, Warrum
                                                and Woodhull22.
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                                So the joint resolution was passed the House of Representatives.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                LAW OF EVIDENCE.

                                Mr. Speaker Allen's evidence bill coming tip, as the special
                                    order-

                                Mr. VEATCH proposed to amend, by inserting after a similar
                                    provision applying to "husband and wife, clergymen, attorneys,"
                                    these words: "Physicians as to any matter confided to them in
                                    the course of the duties of their profession;" which was
                                    adopted.

                                He also proposed: "And provided further, that in all cases where
                                    an executor, administrator, guardian or ward, where judgments
                                    may be rendered, so far as such estates are represented, neither
                                    party shall be allowed to testify as a witness, unless required
                                    by the opposite party or by the court, or unless the case arise
                                    upon contract by the administrator or guardian of said estate;
                                    which was also adopted.

                                The bill being now considered as engrossed.

                                Mr. FRASIER and Mr. FISHER should vote against it, thinking the
                                    door was already opened wide enough for the encouragement of
                                    perjury in our courts.

                                Mr. BUNDY was satisfied that the bill was right in every
                                    particular. It was in conformity with the wishes of the people
                                    as well as the principles of law. It was gaining favor with
                                    courts and people wherever it had been adopted.

                                Mr. Speaker ALLEN (Mr. Branham in the chair.) The law now allows
                                    the plaintiff to swear his cause through, whilst the defendant
                                    is denied the same right to appear in his case. He had
                                    confidence in the general honesty of men. Facts in litigation
                                    could be best ascertained by both parties coming into
                                    court-better generally than in the more circuitous mode of
                                    witnesses. Wherever this has been tried-and it has been
                                    extensively tried-it has given general satisfaction. It was a
                                    popular law-the best example of popular sovereignty.

                                Mr. CRAIN defended the bill from the objection that it would open
                                    the door to perjury, &c.

                                Mr. DOBBINS proposed to amend, by adding by unanimous consent:
                                    "Provided that nothing herein shall be so construed as to repeal
                                    the act of 1853 excluding persons of mixed blood from
                                    testifying," &c.

                                Mr. GRESHAM and Mr. Speaker ALLEN further explained and supported
                                    the bill.

                                Mr. VEATCH asked and obtained unanimous consent to add, after the
                                    matter about confidential communications, these words: "Unless
                                    by the consent of the party making :he communication."

                                Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and thus the bill
                                    passed the final reading in the House-yeas 74, nays 12-with the
                                    title: "An Act in relation to Witnesses,. and to amend section
                                    238 of article 13 of the Practice act; and to repeal all laws
                                    inconsistent therewith; and providing when the same shall take
                                    effect and be in force."

                                On motion by Mr. NEBEKER, the House took up from its place in
                                    calendar the similar bill from the Senate, [No. 5,] and laid it
                                    on he table-Mr. N. saying, if the Senate should fail to pass the
                                    House bill, he desired to be able to call up their bill at any
                                    time.

                                Mr. Thomas' resolution to change the number of the sessions to
                                    three commencing at 8 o'clock, 2 o'clock and 7 o'clock, coming
                                    up-

                                On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, it was amenned by striking out "eight"
                                    and inserting nine."

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG spoke generally against overworking and night
                                    sessions.

                                Mr. BUNDY moved to lay the resolution and amendment on the table;
                                    which was agreed to. 

                                

                                Mr. HOLCOMB submitted a resolution to adjourn the session sine die on Monday, the 11th, at 12 o'clock
                                    M.; which was laid on the table.

                                Mr. BRETT submitted a preamble and resolution, directing the
                                        Committee of Ways and Means to refund the
                                    money furnished by the friends of the inmates of the Lunatic
                                    Asylum, to supply the lack of appropriation by the General
                                    Assembly of 1859 to keep up the Institution. He said Dr. Athon.
                                    could furnish the information without any trouble.

                                It was referred to the Committee on Benevolent
                                        Institutions.

                                Mr. NEWMAN. (by consent) from the Committee on the
                                        Organization of Courts, returned the 3d, 5th and
                                    6th Circuit Court bill, [241] reported by Mr. Black, with a
                                    motion that it be laid on the table; which was concurred in.

                                Mr. FISHER obtained leave to introduce a bill [338] to provide
                                    for taxing the Bank of the State of Indiana for common school
                                    purposes. ["Consent."] It was passed to the second reading.

                                Mr. SHERMAN: [339] Making an appropriation for the purpose of
                                    carrying on the work on the Northern Prison; providing the means
                                    of completing the same, and prescribing the powers and duties of
                                    the Directors thereof.

                                On motion by Mr. SHERMAN, (under a dispensation) it was read
                                    twice; and then referred, by consent, to the Committee
                                        on Ways and Means.

                                Mr. CASON: [340] To amend the act defining a felony and
                                    prescribing punishment therefor; which was passed to the second
                                    reading.

                                Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary, returned Mr. Woods' Calumet Dam bill,
                                    with an amendment: "That no such warrant shall be drawn till a
                                    detailed statement of the cost shall be filed with the Auditor
                                    and certified by the Governor;" which was adopted.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG moved further to amend the bill, by striking out
                                    "$2,000," [cost of suit] and insert in lieu "$3000." 

                                The House adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            TUESDAY, March 5, 1861.
                        
                        On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the reading of yesterday's journal was dispensed
                            with. 

                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, &C.

                             By Mr. DEHART : In behalf of citizens of Cass county, raying an
                                adjustment of our national difficulties upon the basis set forth in
                                President Lincoln's Inaugural Address.

                            By Mr. WILLIAMS :From 70 citizens of Knox county, without respect to
                                party, praying for an adjustment of our national troubles upon the
                                basis of the Crittenden amendments, or some other basis equally fair
                                and honorable.

                            Which were referred to the Committee on Federal
                                    Relations under the Rules.

                            By Mr. RAY: From the late Attorney General, objecting to some words
                                in debate having a personal reflection upon him: which was laid upon
                                the table, and ordered not to be spread upon the journals.

                            By Mr. GRUBB: Praying the Legislature to make a liberal appropriation
                                in aid of the suffering in Kansas; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Finance.


                             On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the Senate proceeded to the consideration
                                of Senate bills on the last reading.

                            Senator O'Brien's bill 85-see page 104 of these Reports-was read, (he
                                said the only object of the bill is to legalize assessment lists
                                where they are not returned in the time prescribed by law) and
                                finally passed by yeas 37, nays 1.

                            Senator Cobb's bill 119-see page 163-was read, (he said there was but
                                one change in the present law made, viz: striking out the word
                                "incorporated") and finally passed by yeas 40, nays 1.

                            Senator March's bill 111 was read.

                            Mr. MARCH. I desire only to say that this bill was introduced at the
                                request of those who have the University in charge. It is an
                                amendment to the 23d section of a law passed at the last session Of
                                the Legislature. The bill authorizes the appropriation of $20,000 of
                                the fund arising from the sale of University lands for the payment
                                of its debts. The University is in debt nearly that much, the
                                interest is becoming due, and is harrassing and obstructing the
                                operation of the institution; so that it is thought best to pay off
                                the debt at once.

                            The bill finally passed-yeas 42, nays 0.

                            Senator Beeson's bill 169-described on page 212 of these Reports-was
                                read the third time.

                            Mr. BEESON. This bill simply alters the old law incorporating
                                companies for manufacturing purposes, by giving them the power to
                                increase their capital stock.

                            Mr. CRAVEN, by unanimous consent, amended the bill by a provision
                                authorizing the consolidation of certain offices of said companies,
                                &c.

                            The bill finally passed: yeas 38, nays 1.

                            The Committee on Roads' bill 129-described on page
                                184 of these Reports-was read the third time.

                            Mr. WHITE. This bill is certainly proposing to amend a law that has
                                been repealed. I have a bill on the files which ean be amended so as
                                to cover the object of this bill, and I move to lay this bill on the
                                table.

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            Senator Culver's bill 108 was read the third time.

                            Mr. CULVER. This bill proposes that a certain number of property
                                holders may petition county commissioners to organize turnpike
                                companies. If the county commissioners deem the road of public
                                utility, they may grant the petitioners power to organize a company.
                                It takes a majority of the property holders within three quarters of
                                a mile on each side of the road, with the consent of the county
                                commissioners, who shall appoint an assessor who shall assess the
                                cost of the road. It provides that the road after a certain length
                                of time shall be free, thus avoiding any constitutional objection. I
                                think the law proposed  by the
                                bill is a good one. It does not tax any property inside of any
                                incorporated town or village.

                            The bill finally passed : yeas 26, nays 13.

                            Senator Newcomb's bill 144-see page 185 of these Reports-was
                                read.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL, by consent, amended the bill, by providing that all
                                lands owned by any county for a poorhouse be situate in the county
                                owning the same.

                            Mr. JOHNSON made an ineffectual motion to recommit the bill, with
                                instructions to amend as follows:

                            Section -. Every building used for the purpose of raising a family,
                                in compliance with the commands of Heaven, that man should be
                                fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth, and the land whereon
                                such building may be situate, not exceeding 160 acres.

                            Mr. MILLER. A bill has passed the Senate amending this same section,
                                in which the amount of land exempt to manual labor-schools was 160
                                acres. This bill leaves it as in the present law, 320 acres. I move
                                to amend this bill in that particular, that it may not repeal my
                                bill which has already passed.

                            No objection being made, the bill was amended, and then finally
                                passed, by yeas 27, nays 16.Senator Conner's 187see page 233was read
                                and finally passed by yeas 37, nays 2.

                            The Judiciary Committee's bill 166-see page 212 of
                                these Reports-was read the third time.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL moved to recommit the bill with instructions, viz.: "if
                                he be a married man, save and except his household goods to the
                                amount of $300." Unless this amendment be adopted, the bill would be
                                as inhuman as imprisonment for debt.

                            Mr. MILLER thought the bill good enough as it is, and objected to the
                                amendment.

                            The motion to recommit was agreed to.

                            Senator Anthonys' bill 146-described on page 185 of these Reports-was
                                read.

                            Mr. ANTHONY. This bill can be explained in a few words. It is to
                                prevent hangers on about, court-houses to be eternally put upon
                                juries. If they have served upon a jury within the past year, it
                                makes that a good ground for challenge.

                            Mr. WOLFE thought the law would operate badly.

                            The bill finally passed: yeas 27, nays 12. .Senator March's bill
                                [206] to amend section 99 of the Practice act, was read the third
                                time.

                            Mr. MARCH. The Supreme Court have recently decided that unless the
                                court act upon a motion to correct judgment within one year it
                                cannot be acted upon at all. The object of this amendment is that if
                                this proceeding is applied for within the year, then the court can
                                act at any time when it comes in order upon the docket.

                            The bill finally passed: yeas 38, nays 0. 

                            Senator Bearss' [214] to raise the salary of common pleas judge from
                                $1,000 to $1,200, was read the third time, and on motion by Mr.
                                MURRAY-yeas 27, nays 11-laid on the table.

                            On motion by Mr. LINE, the bill S. 210, appropriating $500 annually
                                in aid of the Indiana Historical Society was read.

                            Mr. LINE. Minnesota appropriates annually $1,000, Iowa $500, and it
                                does seem to me Indiana can be as liberal as they.

                            Mr. RAY. The bankrupt condition of those States is a poor commentary
                                upon their liberality. This Historical Society is a mere sinecure to
                                support one or two literary gentlemen to enable them to get along
                                without much exertion mentally or physically. He should have to vote
                                against the bill.

                            Mr. HAMILTON was in favor of the passage of the bill.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN had visited the rooms of this association since the
                                subject was last before the Senate; was gratified at what he saw,
                                and thought he should now vote for the pass- age of this bill.

                            Mr. MARCH, in a matter of this kind, was willing to follow the
                                venerable gentleman from Posey, (Mr. Carnahan.)The bill finally
                                passed; yeas 26, nays 12.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, his bill 245, for the relief of Joseph Moore,
                                was read and finally passed by yeas 39, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. WHITE, his bill 193-described on page 237 of these
                                Reports-was taken up and read the third time, and finally passed by
                                yeas 37, nays 1. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE END OF THE SESSION-LEGALLY.

                            Mr. CONLEY offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Committee
                                                on the Judiciary be requested to report to
                                            this General Assembly, at an early day, their opinion as
                                            to the length of time that this Legislature may legally
                                            and constitutionally pass bills and present them to the
                                            Governor for his signature.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.

                            Mr. LINE offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the number of copies of
                                            the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS which
                                            the Senate has agreed to take, shall be held subject to
                                            the written directions of each Senator, without any
                                            additional expense of the publishers.
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted, nem. con.

                            Senator Conley's bill 55, appropating $30 to each Senator and
                                Representative of future legislatures for the purpose of furnishing
                                newspapers, stationary and postage was finally passed by yeas 33,
                                nays 8.Senator Bearss' 233-see page 272 of these reports-was read
                                the third time and finally passed by yeas 29, nays 6.

                            Mr. MILLER, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the bill H. R. 64-see page 71 of these reports-recommending passage
                                with amendment.

                            Mr. DEHART, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                a resolution of inquiry concerning a law fixing a uniform price for
                                publishing the delinquent tax list, with a report recommending the
                                passage of Senator Bearss 8 bill 233 just passed. 
                        
                        

                    
                    
                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, MARCH 12, 1861
                        No. 22
                    

                    
                        

                        
                            

                            Mr. WOLFE, from the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts returned Senator Wagner's bill 270 recommending
                                that it lay on the table.

                            Mr. WAGNER opposed concurrence in the report and urged the passage of
                                his bill.

                            Mr. WOLFE sustained his report.

                            Mr. TURNER hoped the report would not be concurred in.

                            Mr. WAGNER again obtained the floor-

                            And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. JOHNSON introduced a bill [277] to amend sections 54 and 66 of an
                                act dividing the State into counties, &c., approved June 7,
                                1852, defining the boundaries of Morgan and Putnam counties ; which
                                was read and passed to the second reading.

                            [A message from the House invited the Senate to a joint Convention
                                instanter. The invitation was accepted and accordingly Senators
                                vacted the chamber for the purpose of repairing to the Hall of the
                                House. When the Senate returned-]

                            On motion by Mr. JOHNSON-the rules were suspended-yeas 36, nays 8-his
                                bill [277], was read the second time by title only; and on his
                                further motion the bill was read the third time and finally passed
                                by yeas 27, nays 18. 


                            
                                ELECTION OF ASYLUM OFFICERS.

                                Mr. BLAIR introduced a concurrent resolution [similar in form to
                                    the one printed on page 53 of these reports] providing for the
                                    election at once of two trustees for the Asylum for the Blind,
                                    two trustees for the Institution of the Deaf and Dumb, two
                                    commissioners for the Hospital of the Insane, and a President
                                    for said several boards of commissioners.

                                The resolution was adopted.

                                On motion by Mr. BLAIR the election of a President was declared
                                    to be the first in order.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB nominated for that office Andrew Wallace, of Marion
                                    county.

                                There being no other nomination, the roll was called with the
                                    following result:

                                
                                    Andrew Wallace received.........26 votes.
                                    W. H.Talbott received ......... 7 votes.
                                    George K. Steele received ......... 3 votes. 
                                

                                The PRESIDENT. Mr. Wallace has received a majority of all the
                                    votes cast.

                                On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the Senate proceeded to an election for a
                                    trustee of the Blind Asylum.

                                Mr. WHITE nominated John Beard, of Montgomery county.

                                Mr. SLACK nominated Harvey G. Hazlerig, the present
                                    incumbent.

                                
                                    John Beard received...............28 votes.
                                    Harvey G. Hazelrig received............17 votes
                                

                                The PRESIDENT. Mr. Beard has received a majority of all the votes
                                    cast by the Senate.

                                The PRESIDENT announced nominations for another trustee for the
                                    Institution of the Blind to be in order.

                                Mr. CLAYPOOL nominated Wm. M. Smith, of Fayette county.

                                Mr. SLACK nominated Michael Fitzgibbon, of Marion county, the
                                    present incumbent.

                                
                                    Wm. M. Smith received...............26 votes.
                                    Michael Fitzgibbon received...............20 votes.
                                

                                The PRESIDENT. Mr. Smith has received a majority of all the votes
                                    cast by the Senate.

                                On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the Senate proceeded to the election of
                                    the other officers in the order named in the resolution.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB nominated as a trustee for the Deaf and Dumb Asylum,
                                    James C. Burt, of Jennings county.

                                Mr. SLACK nominated Dr. John M. Kitchen.

                                
                                    James C. Burt received..............27 votes.
                                    John M. Kitchen received .............19 votes
                                

                                The PRESIDENT. Mr. Burt has received a majority of all the votes
                                    cast by the Senate.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB nominated John M. Kitchen.

                                Mr. SLACK nominated Thos. L. Woollen, of Johnson county.

                                
                                    John M. Kitchen received ............35 votes,
                                    Thos. L. Woollen received ...........11 votes.
                                

                                The PRESIDENT. Mr. Kitchen has received a majority of the votes
                                    cast by the Senate.

                                [The Senate will now proceed to make nominations for
                                    Commissioners of the Insane Asylum.]

                                Mr. TARKINGTON nominated E. J. Peck.

                                Mr. NEWCOMB nominated Dr. Patrick H. Jameson, of Marion
                                    county.

                                

                                
                                    Patrick H. Jameson received......25 votes.
                                    E. J. Peck received..................22 votes.
                                

                                The PRESIDENT. Dr. Jameson has received a majority of the votes
                                    cast by the Senate.

                                Mr. CONNER nominated Dr. John W. Moody of Decatur.

                                Mr. SLACK nominated Henry Brady of Marion county, the present
                                    incumbent.

                                
                                    John W. Moody received.........25 votes.

                                    Henry Brady received...............22 votes
                                

                                The PRESIDENT. Dr. Moody has received a majority of the votes
                                    cast by the Senate. The election is over. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE STATE PRISONS.

                                Mr. WHITE introduced a bill [278] to make appropriations for
                                    carrying on the work of the Northern State Prison, to provide
                                    the manner of completing the same, and prescribing the powers
                                    and duties of the Board of Directors in relation thereto.

                                He made an ineffectual motion-yeas 27, nays 17-two-thirds not
                                    voting in the affirmative, to suspend the rules that the bill
                                    may be read a second time now.

                                Mr. BEARSS asked leave to submit a report from the State
                                        Prison Committee.

                                Senators Slack, Wolfe and Tarkington, members of the Committee,
                                    objected, each in a few remarks.

                                Senators Mellett and Hamilton, also members of the Committee,
                                    desired that the report should be presented now.

                                Mr. WAGNER demanded the previous question, and the demand being
                                    seconded by 27 Senators, the rules were suspended and the report
                                    received.

                                Mr. WAGNER moved to lay the report on the table without reading,
                                    and print 500 copies.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON made an ineffectual motion to lay this motion on
                                    the table.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON moved to include the evidence in the printing
                                    order.

                                On motion, by Mr. BEARSS-yeas 25, nays 22-this motion was laid on
                                    the table.

                                Mr. SLACK made an ineffectual motion to postpone this subject
                                    until a minority report can be made-probably to-morrow.

                                On motion, by Mr. BEARSS-yeas 25, nays 20-this motion was laid on
                                    the table.

                                Mr. 'HAMILTON made an ineffectual demand for the previous
                                    question-yeas 255 nays 20.

                                Mr. TARKINGTON moved to amend the motion to lay on the table and
                                    print, as follows: "That it is to the interest of Indiana that
                                    the Northern Prison be abandoned, and that the contractors be
                                    paid according to contract fer the-work already done."

                                On motion by Mr. BEARSS-yeas 28, nays 19-this amendment was laid
                                    on the table.

                                Mr. BEARSS demanded the previous question, the demand was
                                    seconded by yeas 28, nays 18, and the motion to lay on the table
                                    and print was agreed to by yeas 81, nays 14.

                                Mr. COBB moved to suspend the order of business in order to
                                    enable him to introduce a motion that 500 copies of the evidence
                                    be printed with the report taken by the Committee.

                                On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL, this motion was laid on the table.
                                
                            
                            

                            
                                BILLS ON THE THIRD READING.

                                Senator Carnahan's bill [153] for the relief of Catharine P.
                                    Whittlesly, was read the third time and finally passed by yeas
                                    45, nays 0.

                                Senator Ferguson's bill [109]-see page 159 was read the third
                                    time [he said its effect was to reach deaf and dumb persons
                                    whose infirmity render them incapable of conducting their own
                                    affairs], and finally passed by yeas 38, nays 5.

                                Senator Carnahan's bill 164-described on page 208 of these
                                    Reports-was read the third time and finally passed by yeas 42,
                                    nays 2.

                                Senator Newcomb's bill 170-see page 212 of these Reports-was read
                                    the third time, and finally passed by yeas -, nays -.

                                Senator Claypool's bill [150]-see page 194 of these Reports-was
                                    read the third time [he said the purpose of the bill was to save
                                    costs to the public treasury, &c.,] and finally passed by
                                    yeas 34, nays 3.

                                Senator Miller's bill 142-see page 185 of these Reports-was read
                                    the third time.

                                Mr. MILLER. The bill authorizes the Trustees of the Indiana
                                    University to appropriate $1,000 for the enlargement of the
                                    University Library ; $5,000 for the improvement of University
                                    Square in Indianapolis whenever a like amount is subscribed by
                                    the citizens; makes the State Geologist a member of the faculty,
                                    and authorizes the State Librarian to send to the University
                                    library copies of all books in the State Library of which there
                                    are duplicates.

                                On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON the 2d section, having reference to
                                    the improvement of University Square in Indianapolis, was
                                    stricken out by consent.

                                The bill finally passed: yeas 28, nays 8.

                                Senator Conley's bill 112-see page 163 of these Reports-was read
                                    the third time and finally passed by yeas 27, nays 7.Senator
                                    Cobb's bill 199-see page 243-was I read the third time.

                                Mr. COBB. Where the words "his or her real estate"; is used in
                                    the law of 1859, I add the words " personal property." That is
                                    the only amendment.

                                The bill finally passed: yeas 27. nays 8.

                                Mr. CAMPBELL offered the following :

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                Resolved, That the
                                                  Finance Committee be instructed
                                                to inquire into the expediency of amending the
                                                revenue law so as to defer the collection of taxes
                                                from March till the first of June of the present
                                                year.
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                                Which was adopted by consent. 
                            
                            

                            
                                BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS, LAWS, AND
                                    JOURNALS.

                                Mr. LINE offered the following : 

                                

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Secretary of
                                                State, be, and he is hereby authorized to procure,
                                                and have bound in sheep, at the earliest day
                                                possible, one copy each of the Journals of the
                                                Senate and the House of Representatives, one copy of
                                                the Documentary Journal, and one copy of the laws
                                                passed at the present Session; also one copy of the
                                                  BREVIER LELISLATIVE REPORTS of
                                                the present session, for each Senator and elected
                                                officer of the Senate, and to forward the same to
                                                their post-office address. 
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                                After discussion, the resolution was adopted.

                                And then came a recess till 7 1/2 o'clock. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.

                            The PRESIDENT announced the special order for this hour to be the
                                consideration of the minority report of the Committee on Federal
                                Relations, identical with the joint resolution ]S. 4]-see pages 44
                                and 45 of the BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.

                            Mr. TURNER moved to indefinitely postpone the consideration of the
                                report.

                            Mr. SHIELDS demanded a call of the Senate.

                            Pending the call-

                            Mr. DICKINSON, from the Committee on Organization of
                                    Courts, returned Senator Ray's bill 247-see page 289
                                of these Reports-recommending that it lie on the table.

                            Mr. BEESON, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned Mr. Conner's bill 200-see page 243-recommending
                                passage.

                            The Secretary reported a quorum present, and on motion by Mr. LINE,
                                further proceedings under the call were dispensed with.

                            Mr, TURNER then withdrew his motion.

                            Mr. LINE moved to make this subject the special order for Saturday
                                morning, at 10 o'clock.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER proposed "Friday."Mr. MARCH proposed "Monday."

                            The yeas and nays were demanded on the motion to postpone till
                                Monday; and they were ordered.

                            Pending the roll call-

                            The Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            TUESDAY, March 5,1861.
                        

                        Mr. GROVER said he desired to introduce two bills to amend the assessment
                            act, so as to make it conform to the new school bill, if it should pass;
                            and he obtained leave to introduce them, viz :

                        A bill [341] to amend the 103d section of the assessment act of, June 21,
                            1852, amended in section one of the act of March 5, 1859: and

                        A bill [342] to amend section 124 of the assessment act: which were
                            passed to the second reading.

                        Mr. McCLURG: [343] Authorizing county commissioners to levy a tax [not
                            exceeding 25 cents on the $100] in certain cases, for the completion of
                            local improvement, and defining how the same shall be collected and
                            disbursed and on his motion, (the rules and constitutional provision
                            being suspended for the purpose,) it was read twice, and referred to a
                            select committee-Messrs. McClurg, Black and Brett.

                        Mr. BRYANT: [344] To provide for the payment of witnesses and sheriff
                            fees in criminal cases : which was passed the first reading.

                        Mr. CAMERON obtained leave to submit a concurrent resolution, which was
                            adopted, that the General Assembly go into a joint convention in the
                            Hall of the House of Representatives at 2 o'clock this day, for the
                            purpose of going into an election of two Sinking Fund Commissioners.

                        Mr. VEATCH, from, the Committee on the Judiciary,
                            returned Mr. Shoemaker's bill [S. 26] supplemental to the act *to
                            provide for the re-location of county seats &c., of December 23,
                            1859, so as to provide that the trustees created by the act to which
                            this is a supplement shall constitute bodies politic, with an amendment
                            adding:

                        SEC. 6. Each and every organization effected under the provisions of this
                            act shall take the name and style of --- Academy.

                        Which amendment was ordered to be engrossed.

                        Mr. JONES of Tippecanoe, from the Committee on the Organization
                                of Courts, returned Mr. Prow's resolution, for allowing
                            excutors and administrators to sue before a justice of the peace, and
                            reported that the existing statutes are sufficient: which was concurred
                            in.

                        Mr. GRESHAM, from the Committee on Military Affairs,
                            returned his bill to authorize the Governor to obtain possession of all
                            government arms and military equipments belonging to the State,
                            recomending its passage.

                        Mr. DAVIS proposed to amend by inserting: " within the last 12 years." He
                            did not want the old, no account arms.

                        Mr. BLACK, said he had had the care of a stand of arms for the last 18
                            years, and that they were still in good order.

                        On motion of Mr. GRESHAM, the amendment was laid on the table-yeas 54,
                            nays 23, and the bill was ordered to be engrossed. On his further
                            motion, the bill was considered as engrossed and passed the third
                            reading-yeas 57, nays 29.

                        Mr. Hurd had leave of absence-sick.

                        Mr. PROW, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr.
                            Ferguson's fence bill [55] with an amendment by way of substitute,
                            entitled a bill [345] for the erection of swinging gates across county
                            and township roads, where such roads cross streams of water large enough
                            to ferry, but where no ferry is kept; and providing a penalty for
                            leaving such gates open: which was passed to the second reading.

                        Mr. WELLS, from the Committee on Roads, returned Mr.
                            Anderson's bill [141] to amend the supervisors' act, recommending
                            legislation inexpedient: which was concurred in.

                        He also returned Mr. Bundy's road bills  [267, 271] recommending passage: and they
                            were ordered to be engrossed.

                        Mr. BRETT, from the Committee on County and Township
                                Business, returned the committee's assessment bill [262]
                            recommending passage. It was ordered to be engrossed.

                        Mr. PARRETT, from the Committee on Corporations,
                            returned Mr. Speaker Allen's Louisville and St. Louis bill [326],
                            recommending its passage. It was ordered to be engrossed.

                        On motion of Mr. PARRRTT, it was considered as engrossed.

                        Mr. GRESHAM explained the bill. The change of name was to make it
                            intelligible to European capitalists, whose money was expected to build
                            the road principally.

                        The publication clause was stricken out, by unanimous consent, and so the
                            bill was passed the third reading: yeas 86, nays 1.

                        Mr. STOTSENBERG made an ineffectual motion to dispense with the order of
                            business, and take up the General Appropriation bill. 

                        
                            APPORTIONMENT OF REPRESENTATION.

                            Mr. CAMERON, from the Select Committee hereon, obtained leave to
                                return his apportionment bill [285], which he did, with an
                                amendment, by way of new matter.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend the amendment reported, by striking out
                                all after the enacting clause, and inserting new matter.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to postpone the consideration of the bill (the
                                first amendment), till Thursday. He wanted time to examine it. 

                            Mr. BUNDY. That would be to defeat it. 

                            Mr. DAVIS. Saw great injustice in the bill-giving too much to
                                Jefferson county, &c. 

                            Mr. SMITH complained of injustice to Bartholomew county.

                            Mr. McLEAN objected to the apportionment allowing but one
                                representative to Vigo county.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG was willing to say, 9 o'clock to-morrow.

                            Mr. FRASIER proposed 3 o'clock to day.

                            Mr. CAMERON moved to lay the motions to postpone on the table ; which
                                was agreed to : yeas 55, nays 35.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to lay the whole subject on the table.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded a division of the question. The first branch of
                                the motion, to lay the substitute on the table, was agreed to: yeas
                                55, nays 36-and the second branch was rejected: yeas 32, nays
                                60.

                            Mr. GRESHAM proposed to amend, by giving Jefferson two members and
                                Jefferson and Scott one; which was agreed to.

                            Mr. CAMERON now demanded the previous question.

                            Mr. HEFFREN demanded a call of the House; but the House refused to
                                order the call: yeas 33, nays 55.

                            Mr. HEFFREN objected to the demand for the previous question, and
                                demanded the yeas and nays on the second; which being ordered and
                                taken, resulted-yeas 57, nays 35: so there was a second to the
                                previous question Pending the ordering of the main question : "shall
                                the report of the Select Committee be concurred in, and their
                                amendment adopted ?"

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved that the House adjourn [recess].

                             Mr. DOBBINS demanded the yeas and nays.

                            Mr. VEATCH made the Constitutional point, that on a motion to adjourn
                                it requires one-tenth of the members present to second the demand
                                for the yeas and nays.

                            Mr. DOBBINS demanded the yeas and nays on ordering the main question,
                                which being ordered and taken resulted : yeas 58, nays 2.

                            The SPEAKER, before announcing this vote said : After the highly
                                conservative and eminently national document emanating yesterday
                                from the President of the United States, the Chair was sorry so soon
                                to see that secession had taken place in this hall.

                            Mr. HEFFREN asked unanimous consent that the bill be postponed till 3
                                o'clock. He wanted an opportunity to look over it.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. Will the gentleman agree to vote then, without bolting
                                ?

                            Mr. HEFFREN. I will not: because I know nothing of the bill. But I
                                will say to the gentlemen, that I doubt whether the bill can pass
                                unless we have opportunity to examine it.

                            The SPEAKER. Certain members not voting being now in their places,
                                the clerk will call the roll again.

                            Mr. HEFFREN (Mr. Prosser joining him), appealed in writing, That it
                                was not competent for the chair to make this order to repeat the
                                roll.

                            On motion by Mr. GRESHAM, the appeal was laid on the table-yeas 58,
                                nays 12.

                            The vote was now again taken-yeas 56, nays 2-no quorum voting.

                            Mr. CAMERON asked leave to withdraw the demand for the previous
                                question, but the House refused.

                            Mr. MOODY demanded a call of the House, which proceeded, showing 87
                                members present.

                            Mr. MOODY moved that further proceedings in the call be dispensed
                                with.

                            Mr. FORD. Seeing no farther use for Democratic members here, I move
                                that we retire-adjourn. (It was 12 noon, and he left.)

                            Mr. HORTON demanded the yeas and nays, which resulted-yeas 56, nays
                                33 : so proceedings in the call were dispensed with. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. CAMERON had leave now to withdraw his demand for the previous
                                question; and on his further motion, the consideration of the report
                                and bill was postponed and made the special order for to-morrow
                                morning, 9 o'clock.

                            Mr. BUNDY submitted a resolution, inviting Senators forthwith to the
                                joint Contention for this hour, to choose two Commissioners of the
                                Sinking Fund in the place of Commissioners Parks and
                                Bemusdaffer.

                            

                            On the motion of Mr. STOTSRNBERG, the order was dispensed with, and
                                the General Appropriation bill was taken up and considered on the
                                second reading, passed the second reading, and referred to the
                                    Committee on Ways and Means. 


                            
                                IN JOINT CONVENTION---SINKING FUND
                                    COMMISSIONERS.

                                The PRESIDENT of the Senate called the Convention to order, read
                                    the act of 1859, under which the election is held, and called
                                    for nominations.

                                Mr. HEFFREN. The elections were to fill the places to be vacated
                                    by Mr. Parks and Mr. Bemusdaffer. He nominated Joseph B.
                                    Bemusdaffer, of Decatur county.

                                Mr. FRASIER nominated Isaac Jenkinson, of Allen county.

                                The vote proceeded vive voce, and it was reported---

                                
                                    For Jenkinson.........................82 votes.
                                    For Bemusdaffer......................54 votes.
                                

                                Isaac Jenkinson, of the county of Allen, having received a
                                    majority, was declared by the President to be elected a
                                    Commissioner of the Sinking Fund, to serve four years.

                                The PRESIDENT then called for nomination, to fill the other
                                    vacancy in the Board.

                                Mr. HEFFREN nominated Parmenter M. Parks, of Morgan county.

                                Mr. Senator STONE nominated Nathaniel Kemp, of Randolph
                                    county,

                                The vote was reported---

                                
                                    For Kemp..............................82 votes.
                                    For Parks............ ..................54 votes.
                                

                                The PRESIDENT. Nathaniel Kemp, of Randolph county having received
                                    a majority of all the votes cast, I declare him to be duly
                                    elected---to serve for four years.

                                The Convention having completed the object for which it was
                                    called, Senators will now retire to their chamber. 
                            
                            

                            
                                THE MILITIA.

                                The SPEAKER announced the special order, viz: the consideration
                                    of Mr. Gresham's military bill (105)-the question being on the
                                    engrossement of the bill as it was reported.

                                Mr. HEFFREN made an ineffectual motion to take up the
                                    consideration of bills on the 3d reading.

                                Mr. KNOWLTON proposed to concur in the reported bill with an
                                    amendment, striking out after the enacting clause, and inserting
                                    new matter. He said his amendment had been submitted to the best
                                    military minds in Indianapolis, and approved by them. The
                                    committee's bill was imperfect in many particulars. It provides
                                    for the election or appointment of officers whose salaries, and
                                    the cost of administration under them would be excessive. It
                                    provides also that the Governor shall prescribe rules and
                                    regulations of the militia. He considered the Legislature
                                    capable of proscribing these rules, and that was their duty
                                    also.

                                His amendment was read. It is based on the present law, of June
                                    14, 1852, repealing sections 3 to 20 inclusive thereof, and
                                    "providing for a more perfect organization of the Indiana
                                    Miltitia for military fund and its disbursement "for punishing
                                    failures and negligence of duty in the service, and for matters
                                    properly connected therewith."

                                Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and there was a
                                    second-the main question being on the adoption of Mr. Knowlton's
                                    amendment, the vote was reported-yeas 29, nays 62.

                                The next question under the previous question was on concurring
                                    in the report of the Military Committee and
                                    adopting their amendment.

                                [A message from the Senate announced the concurrent vote in that
                                    body, for President of the Board of Trustees and two trustees
                                    for each of the Benevolent Institutions-under the appointment of
                                    a concurrent resolution before reported from that body.]

                                Mr. HEFFREN inquired whether negroes, Indians, and mulattoes were
                                    to be included in the "State troops" of the second section,
                                    which were to be "composed of such citizens or residents of the
                                    State over the age of eighteen years," &c. ?

                                Several voices"No." "order."

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG, (pro forma,) had too much
                                    regard for his Republican friends to help them to pass this
                                    bill, by which they would kill themselves. The bill required
                                    amendments which could not be applied under the restraints of
                                    the previous question.

                                The vote stood: yeas 54, nays 38, as follows:

                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                YEAS-Messrs. Bingham, Boydston,
                                                Branham, Brucker, Bryan, Bundy, Burgess, Cameron,
                                                Cason, Collins of Whitley, Cram, Dashiel, Epperson,
                                                Erwin, Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher, Fordyce, Fraley
                                                Frazier, Gore, Gresham, Grover, Haworth, Henricks,
                                                Hopkins, Hudson, Jones of Tippecanoe, Jones of
                                                Vermillion, Jones of, Wayne, Kendrick, Lee,
                                                Lightner, Moody, Moorman, Nebeker, Newman, Orr,
                                                Parrett, Ragan, Randall, Sherman, Sloan, Smith of
                                                Miami, Thomas, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Wells,
                                                Williams, Wilson, Woodhull, Woods, and Mr.
                                                Speaker-54.

                                            NAYS-Messrs. Atkinson, Black,
                                                Brett, Campbell, Collins of Adams, Cooprider, Davis,
                                                Dobbins, Fleming, Ford, Gifford, Hayes, Heffren,
                                                Holcomb, Horton, Howard, Jenkinson, Kitchen,
                                                Knowlton, Lods, Lane, McClurg, McLean, Moss, Mutz,
                                                Owens, Packard, Pitts, Polk, Prosser, Prow, Bobbins,
                                                Roberts, Smith of Bartholomew, Stevenson,
                                                Stotsenberg, Trier, and Warrum-38.
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                

                                So the amendment of the committee was adopted; and then the bill
                                    as amended was ordered to be engrossed, and read the third time:
                                    yeas 53, nays 36.

                                The bill was read the third time.

                                Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and the vote stood :
                                    yeas 56, nays 10-2 present and refusing to vote : so the bill
                                    passed, having the following title, viz.:

                                An act for the organization of the Indiana Militia, prescribing
                                    duties of certain officers, for punishing failures, refusals,
                                    and negligences in connection with the service, and for the
                                    repeal of all existing laws having reference to said militia. 

                                

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG proposed to amend the title, by substituting
                                    these words: 'An act making provision for the complete route of
                                    the Republican party at the next and all succeeding popular
                                    elections," &c.; which was ruled out.

                                And then the House adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, March 6,1861.
                        

                        Mr. MURRAY moved that the reading of the journal be dispensed with.

                        Mr. SLACK and others objecting The yeas and nays were demanded, and being
                            ordered and taken resulted: yeas 24, nays 12.

                        So the motion was agreed to. 

                        
                            BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.
                            The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a communication from the
                                Doorkeeper, as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        SENATE CHAMBER, March
                                                5,1861.
                                        
                                            To the Hon. John R. Cravens,
                                                President of the Senate of Indiana:
                                        

                                        SIR:-I have the honor to announce to the Senate that, in
                                            accordance with its resolution of yesterday, I have
                                            contracted with Messrs. ARIEL and W. H. DRAPIER for 600 copies of the
                                                BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS for
                                            the use of the Senate.

                                        Very Respectfully,
                                            S. G. THOMPSON, Doorkeeper of
                                                the Senate. 
                                    
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            PETITIONS, MEMORIALS, ETC.

                            By Mr. WOLFE: From about 100 citizens of Harrison county, without
                                respect to party, praying for an adjustment of our national troubles
                                upon the basis of the Crittenden amendments, or some other basis
                                equally fair and honorable; which was referred to the
                                    Committee on Federal Relations under the
                                rules. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES
                            Were made and concurred in as follows:

                            
                                By Mr. CRAVEN: Finance-returning Senator
                                    Dickinson's bill 168-see page 212 of these Reports-recommending
                                    indefinite postponement.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Judiciary-returning a
                                    select committee's bill 250-see page 294 of these
                                    Reports-recommending passage with amendments giving lien on
                                    crops to owners of the land to secure rent.
                            

                            Mr. SLACK and Mr. SHIELDS objected to concurrence in the committee
                                report, and Mr. CLAYPOOL sustained the recommendation of the
                                committee.

                            Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question, and the demand being
                                seconded-yeas 27, nays 13-the committee report was concurred in by
                                yeas 29, nays 15.

                            On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN-yeas 28, nays 14-the bill was considered as
                                engrossed and read the third time.

                            Mr. LANDERS considered the provisions of this bill were both proper
                                and right.

                            Mr. JOHNSON. The practical operations of this law would oppress the
                                poor man.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN. The present law has never been of advantage to any
                                class of men but lawyers. The people of his county demand such a
                                bill as this, and he hoped it would pass.

                            Mr. COBB. Such a law ought not to pass. The rich farmer ought to take
                                his chance with the poor creditor of his tenant. He believed the
                                principle of this bill wrong, and should vote against it.

                            Mr. BEARSS was in favor of the bill, believing it to be the best
                                thing that could be proposed for both parties-landlord as well as
                                tenant.

                            Mr. HAMILTON thought this bill just. He demanded the previous
                                question, and the demand was seconded by yeas 32, nays 12.

                            The bill finally passed by yeas 31, nays 12.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the bill [H. R. 325] to raise a revenue for
                                State purposes for the years 1861-2, was read the third time, and
                                finally passed by yeas 39, nays 2.

                            By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Finance-returning a copy of his
                                bill 121-see pages 163 and 294 of these Reports[the original was
                                lost, but this copy was substituted, by consent], recommending
                                passage with amendments.

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the committee's report was concurred in,
                                the bill considered as engrossed, and put upon its passage.

                            The bill finally passed-yeas 27, nays 15.

                            By Mr. SHIELDS: Corporations-returning Senator
                                Wolfe's bill 34-see page 46 of these Reports-recommending that it be
                                laid on the table.

                            Mr. WOLFE. In the limited time of five minutes allotted to
                                discussion, I shall be unable to give my views as fully as I should
                                desire on this subject; and shall therefore only attempt a brief
                                statement of the reasons why I am opposed to concurring in the
                                report to lay this bill on the table. The bill was introduced by
                                myself, and I am satisfied it ought to become the law. It proposes,
                                in the first place, to so change the law that a license shall not be
                                required for the sale of any other than ardent spirits. This, I
                                think, would, be promotive of temperance, by leaving the
                                comparatively harmless beverages, like wine and beer, to free and
                                unrestricted sale, and thereby discourage the use of ardent spirits.
                                If the use of these less hurtful beverages were left free, it would
                                in a few years almost supplant the traffic in ardent spirits. The
                                history of all nations shows that where wines and beer are the
                                prevailing social beverages, drunkenness is much less frequent. I
                                believe it would have the same effect here.

                            But again : the bill further proposes to lower the price of licenses
                                to twenty dollars. The object of this is to induce all who sell
                                ardent spirits to do so under the restrictions and regulations of
                                the license law, thereby doing away with the "doggery system." My
                                experience satisfies me that much less evil results from the sale by
                                licensed sellers, than by those not licensed; for the reason, that
                                the former are required to execute bond, and are otherwise under
                                restraints not imposed on unlicensed sellers. I submit, if these
                                restrictions are beneficial for those who sell by the gill, it is
                                equally beneficial for those who sell by the quart or larger
                                quantities. For these reasons I am opposed to concurring in the
                                report of the committee to lay the bill on the table.

                            

                            Mr. SHIELDS. It was thought by the committee that the bill would
                                entirely destroy the license law. If this bill was passed, the
                                license law would not be worth four bits.

                            The report was concurred in, by yeas 28, nays 13, as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS---Messrs. Bearss, Beeson, Berry,
                                            Blair, Campbell, Carnahan, Claypool, Conner, Cravens of
                                            Jefferson, Culver, Dickinson, Ferguson, Grubb, Hamilton,
                                            Jones, March, Mellett, Murray, Newcomb, Odell, Ray,
                                            Shields, Stone, Tarkington, Teegarden, Turner, White and
                                            Williams-28.

                                        NAYS---Messrs. Anthony, Cobb, Conley,
                                            Hull, Johnson, Landers, Line, O'Brien, Slack, Steele,
                                            Studabaker, Wilson, and Wolf-13.
                                    
                                
                            

                            By Mr. CONNER: Organization of Courts-returning
                                the bill [H. R. 243] fixing the time of holding courts in the first
                                Judicial Circuit-recommending passage with an amendment, striking
                                out "3," and inserting "4."

                            On motion by Mr. CONNER, the bill was read the third time and finally
                                passed, by yeas 39, nays 0. 

                            By Mr. CULVER: County and Township
                                Business-returning the bill H. R. 173-see page 183 of
                                these Reports- recommending passage.

                            Mr. RAY moved to recommit the bill, with instructions to amend, as
                                desired by certain parties in Newton county.

                            Mr. CULVER. We had the same propositions before the committee.

                            Mr. MARCH moved to amend by inserting the words "or counties," after
                                the second word "county" in the first section.

                            On motion by Mr. CULVER, this amendment was laid on the table.

                            Mr. WAGNER opposed the motion to Recommit, and desired these people
                                should have redress for their grievances.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL was in favor of the passage of this bill, upon a
                                principle of justice, although his personal interest would suggest
                                opposition to it.

                            On motion by Mr. TURNER, the motion to recommit was laid on the.
                                table, by yeas 28, nays 11.

                            On motion by Mr. TURNER, the bill was read the third time, and
                                finally passed by yeas 27, nays 14.

                            
                                By Mr. CULVER: County and Township
                                    Business-returning Senator March's bill 241-described
                                    on page 272 of these Reports-recommending that it lie on the
                                    table.

                                By Mr. GRUBB: Rights and
                                    Privileges-returning the bill H. R. 139-see page
                                    136-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. DEHART: Judiciary-returning the bill
                                    H. R. 81-see page 72-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. MILLER: Select Committe-returning his resolution-see
                                    page 270 of these Reports-recommending the appropriation of a
                                    sum sufficient to purchase a large fire-proof and burglar proof
                                    safe, or the building of a vault for the State Treasurer not
                                    exceeding $1.500; and that this report be referred to the
                                        Committee on Finance, that they may make
                                    provision therefor in the specific appropriation bill.

                                By Mr. JOHNSON: Select Committee-returning Senaator Hamilton's
                                    bill [260] for the relief of Wm. Rockhill, recommending
                                    passage.

                                On Mr. JOHNSON'S motion, the bill was read the third time, and
                                    finally passed by yeas 38, nays 6.

                                By Mr. MELLETT: From a majority of the joint
                                        Committee on apportionment-returning
                                    Senator Wagner's bill 269; recommending passage, with an
                                    amendment, striking "Howard Co." from the 11th district, and
                                    inserting in lieu "Madison;" striking "Madison" from the 6th,
                                    and inserting "Howard." 

                                By Mr. STUDABAKER; From a minority of the same Committee -
                                        Congressional Apportionment returning,
                                    Senator Murray's bill 276, recommending passage.
                            

                            Mr. MELLETT made an ineffectual demand-yeas 22, nays 21-for the
                                previous question.

                            Mr. MURRAY. We are not going to be gagged in that kind of style. We
                                want some consideration of this question. I am perfectly willing
                                when I understand a measure to vote either one way or the other, but
                                am opposed to taking snap judgment in this kind of style.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER. The bill submitted by the minority is a fair bill.
                                The bill of the majority is not. In the southeastern part of the
                                State it makes a district 100 miles in length-almost the entire
                                width of the southern part of the State.

                            Mr. CONNER moved to concur in the majority report by striking out "
                                Madison county" from the XIth District, and inserting in lieu
                                thereof "Howard county."

                            Mr. LANDERS. I had hoped the Republicans would give us a bill that
                                would be fair and honorable; and I say to them now they had better
                                do it.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB. I am opposed to the amendment. Ten years ago the
                                Democrats had the power in the Legislature, and they used it.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I do not think there is any use of whipping the devil
                                round the stump. We are in the majority, and I am for putting the
                                rowels into the Democratic party pretty strong. I know if they had
                                the majority they would make every district in the State Democratic
                                if they could. I have but one objection to the bill-it gives them
                                three Congressional districts where they should have but two. If the
                                gentlemen want to bolt, I say let them bolt. If this thing is to be
                                held over the Legislature, as it has been from the commencement of
                                this Legislature down, let it come, and come quickly. These
                                gentlemen are demanding that we shall legislate according to the
                                will and behests of the minority here. I won't do it. It is useless
                                to bandy words. We have got to come to the point, when the Democracy
                                had the power-the rope around our necks-they used the power and
                                tightened the ropes; now we have the ropes around their necks. We
                                have done all that is just and fair, and I would as soon see it
                                occur to-day as three days hence. I am willing to take the
                                responsibility.

                            Mr. MELLETT. If we pass this bill at all, it is necessary that it
                                should pass this House to-day. I apprehend we cannot gain anything
                                by making speeches, and I hope the Senate will consent to a direct
                                vote upon the question.

                            And then the Senate took a recess till two o'clock-affirmative 22,
                                negative 21. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. MURRAY spoke against the majority report.

                            Mr. CONNER withdrew his motion. 

                            

                            Mr. RAY spoke against the majority report.

                            Mr. CONLEY offered a substitute.

                            Mr. WAGNER spoke in favor of the majority report.

                            On motion of Mr. MURRAY the substitute was laid on the table-yeas 26,
                                nays 17.

                            Mr. MELLETT made an ineffectual demand for the previous question-yeas
                                23, nays 22.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS offered a substitute.

                            On motion of Mr. CLYPOOL it was laid on the table-yeas 34, nays
                                22.

                            Mr. COBB spoke against the majority report.

                            Mr. MARCH spoke in favor thereof.

                            Mr. WOLFE spoke against the majority report.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS. It seems to me we might get along with this matter. Let
                                us postpone it till to-morrow morning at 10 o'clock. I am willing to
                                act fair; I am willing to compromise. Let us make another effort. I
                                would like to see this matter settled. If you had the districts
                                placed in a fair shape, I would have no objections. The amendment
                                presented by the Senator from Greene (Mr. Conley) was drawn up by
                                himself and me, and indeed I did not count how many Democratic or
                                Republican districts it would make. Now let us deliberate over this
                                matter, and I think we might come to some settlement. I therefore
                                make a motion to postpone it till to-morrow.

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT-yeas 26, nays 13-the motion was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. For the purpose of giving more time for
                                consideration, I move to postpone this question till to-morrow at 2
                                o'clock.

                            On motion by Mr. BEARSS-yeas 26, nays 18-this motion was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. MURRAY. While I Intend to vote against this bill, I have do
                                disposition to retard its progress. I therefore move the previous
                                question.

                            The demand was seconded: yeas 26, nays 17.The majority report was
                                then concurred in, by yeas 23, nays 19.

                            Mr. MELLETT. I move that the bill be considered as engrossed and read
                                the third time now.

                            Mr. COBB made an ineffectual motion-yeas 15, nays 26-to lay this
                                motion on the table.

                            Mr. MELLETT demanded the previous question, and the demand was
                                seconded, by yeas 26, nays 12.

                            The question being on Mr. Mellett's motion to read the bill a third
                                time now-

                            The yeas and nays were demanded and being ordered and taken,
                                resulted-yeas 25, nays 5.

                            The PRESIDENT. There is not a quorum voting.

                            Mr. WAGNER moved a call of the Senate.

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            On motion by Mr. BLAIR the absentees were sent for.

                            After ten or fifteen minutes-

                            The PRESIDENT said: I am informed by the Doorkeeper that the
                                Democracy has seceded. Upon the call of the Senate, 30 Senators
                                answered to their names.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. I had just as soon the roll should stand just where it
                                is till this session expires by limitation. I can stand as much
                                hell-fire as any of them can. I can stand as long without the
                                passage of the appropriation bills as they can. I do not rely upon
                                the appropriations of this Legislature for a living. If they want to
                                stop the wheels of government, let them do it. The idea that we are
                                to submit to a minority, certainly is not within the rules of
                                parliamentary law. I am willing to forego any further remarks that I
                                might make.

                            The PRESIDENT. I would ask if the Doorkeeper found the absentees?

                            The Assistant Doorkeeper. (From the Doorkeeper's chair at the door.)
                                I saw them pretty nearly all in a batch, and the answer was, "Tell
                                them to go to hell."

                            Mr. WHITE. I move we don't do that.

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I presume it is understood by Republican Senators
                                that Democratic Senators think this is an erroneous bill, and they
                                ask a proper one. I propose to say, upon the part of Democratic
                                Senators absent, that they will be willing to remain in their seats
                                if we can get one that is anywhere near right. If we could get even
                                the old apportionment of 1852, I believe the Democratic party would
                                abide by it.

                            Mr. WAGNER. (Interrupting.) Allow me to say, in answer, that a
                                compromise, after breaking a quorum of this Senate, cannot be
                                accepted.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON. I am willing to say that we are ready to meet any
                                regular Committee for the purpose of getting up a bill that will
                                meet the object of the Republican party, giving them their full
                                share. I would like to see the business of the Senate go on, but I
                                believe no vote I could give, or action of mine would better please
                                my constituents, or the Democratic party of Indiana than to kill
                                this bill in any manner. I have no fears of meeting them and
                                accounting to them at any time and at all times.

                            Mr. MURRAY. I would like to know how the gentleman can justify his
                                party in bolting, when, if they had staid in their places the bill
                                could not have passed ? Twenty-three is the highest vote that has
                                been cast for it.

                            Mr. CONNER. The Democrats have broken a quorum, have been waited upon
                                by the Doorkeeper and refuse to return to the Senate chamber, I
                                therefore move to adjourn.

                            The motion was agreed to.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            WEDNESDAY, March 6, 1861.
                        

                         The journal of yesterday was read. 

                        

                        Mr. DAVIS said he was recorded as present and refusing to vote on the
                            final passage of the military bill. He was not within the Hall when his
                            name was called, and moved to amend the journal by striking that part
                            out.

                        The SPEAKER. The roll-call had proceeded beyond the name of the gentleman
                            from Scott. The gentleman was not in the Hall at the time his name was
                            called in the regular progress of the call; but he came in afterwards,
                            and the Chair seeing him in the Hall, directed the Clerk to call his
                            name. The Chair recollects that the gentleman was going out of the Hall
                            at the time his name was called the second time, and quite probably, as
                            he says, the gentleman did not hear the call.

                        Mr. DAVIS. Does not the Speaker put the question, "was the gentlemen
                            within the bar when his name was called?" to a member when he desires to
                            vote after the roll is called?

                        The SPEAKER. The rules require that, when it becomes necessary for the
                            Chair to decide the question officially, it will decide that a member is
                            within the bar when he is within the walls of the Hall.

                        Mr. CAMERON spoke against the motion to correct the journal, and, for
                            reason, read the following remains of the proceedings of a caucus of
                            Democratic members on this subject last night, viz.:

                        
                            
                                
                                    "Resolved, That we, the Democratic members
                                        of the Senate and House of Representatives, do hereby pledge
                                        ourselves to each other to bolt if necessary to prevent
                                        apportionment and military bills pending in this
                                        Legislature. 
                                    HEFFREN"
                                
                            
                        

                        They proposed here, as a body, to break up the Legislature in an
                            unconstitutional manner, and as he conceived, in violation of their
                            oaths. That was the way they were prepared to oppose any measure here
                            which they deem odious-which does not suit them. They do not propose to
                            sit in their places and vote against it. No, but to break up, in a
                            revolutionary way, the highest branch of the government. Sir, our party
                            would not do that. When we are in the minority, we will remain on the
                            floor and vote against odious measures; and when we are beaten, we will
                            appeal to the people for the rectitude of our course. He was not
                            prepared to see the spirit of South Carolina secession exhibited in this
                            Hall. But it did seem that the day had come, when it was to be the rule
                            "for the minority, when beaten, to come up here and attempt to break up
                            the government. When any measure does not suit them, they propose to go
                            home, and leave the wheels of government blocked-lock every office door,
                            and leave the State without a government, exposed to anarchy and
                            confusion. They will allow us to pass such bills as please them. They
                            must be suited, forsooth, or legislation must stop. No doubt the
                            military bill is odious to many individuals, because it rotates them out
                            of office-it takes away from them their titles. It wipes out their
                            colonels, and takes down their brigadier generals, in cases where they
                            know the people of Indiana would never elect them to hold such trusts.
                            This bill provides that the people shall elect their officers.

                        Mr. PARRETT here made a point of order against the discussion of the
                            military bill. 

                        Mr. CAMERON. Who were the parties here proposing to correct the journal ?
                            Gentlemen came in here, and proposed to change the journal when they
                            were not present in the proceedings, and cannot know whether it is right
                            or wrong. He corroborated the stasement of the Speaker with reference to
                            the presence of the gentleman from Scott. He read another resolution
                            picked up from the table, where it had been left in the Democratic
                            caucus. It might have been the same proposition in the amended form. It
                            was in these words:

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That we hereby pledge ourselves
                                        to abide by the decisions of this caucus, and will most
                                        solemnly carry out all its decisions.
                                
                            
                        

                        Now, when gentlemen come here pledged to break up the legislative branch
                            of the Government, how could they ask it as a matter of courtesy that
                            the journal should be corrected? It was not a question of courtesy. The
                            record was correct. They could not go behind this legislation, and find
                            anything in the journal or in the facts to invalidate it.

                        Mr. HEFFREN had been amused very much at the sonorous, whangdoodle wail
                            of the gentleman from Porter. The gentleman certainly got up this
                            morning wrong end foremost. With reference to the resolutions picked up
                            from the table of the caucus held last night, " he told the gentleman
                            that those resolutions were unanimously adopted in that caucus. He would
                            tell the gentleman further, that the members in that caucus were here as
                            honorable men; and he would say to the gentleman from Porter, that when
                            he insinuates that I or any Democratic member here upon this floor has
                            been or would be guilty of perjury, he simply tells an untruth.

                        Mr. CAMERON, [interposing.] I wish that to be taken down.

                        Mr. HEFFREN. Take it down, sir-

                        Mr. RAGAN made the point, that the gentleman should be required to
                            address the House in courteous language, as he had violated it once.

                        The SPEAKER. The Clerk is now reducing to writing the words of the
                            gentleman from Washington and Harrison referred to.

                        Mr. HEFFREN. Sir, it is strange the gentleman from Putnam can sit here
                            and listen to the beautiful language used by the gentleman from Porter
                            in regard to Democrats here, and when I retaliate in language no more
                            severe, his sensitive nature is touched, and the remarks fall grateingly
                            and harshly upon his ear. I believed the ruling of the Chair was correct
                            in regard to the presence of any member within the walls of the House.
                            But the gentleman from Scott had said that he did not hear the name
                            called. Upon this he considered it better to have the journal corrected. It was but common justice
                            He did not ask it as a courtsey. I scorn it. With reference to the
                            proceedings yesterday, he said the Democratic members would not have
                            bolted, if they had been allowed a chance to examine the bill. They
                            asked only a delay till three o'clock. The gentleman preferred to rise
                            up and place the gag in our mouths. Thirty-seven Democratic members here
                            were told that they would not be heard-were compelled to submit to have
                            their mouths hushed. They were told, as a school-master tells his
                            children-"Take your seats and behave yourselves, and do as you are bid."
                            Sir, when it comes to that I am for revolution, and to meet revolution
                            by revolution. I have met the same issue in the other end of the
                            building; and I say here, that the Democrat who has not backbone enough
                            to stand by his fellow-democrats in such a case,, had better go over to
                            the Republicans and make common cause with them, and claim the name of
                            Democrat no more.

                        Mr. FRASIER. Was not one hour and a half consumed in reading an
                            amendment.

                        Mr. HEFFREN. There was an amendment by the gentleman from Cass. He also
                            desired to offer one, and if he could have got it in, he would not have
                            left the Hall as he did, even if it had been voted down. There was no
                            opportunity for discussion, examination or amendment. When we asked for
                            time till 3 o'clock, it was denied.

                        Mr. WOODHULL. Was there riot a motion to postpone?

                        Mr. HEFFREN. And nearly every Republican on the floor voted against it
                            and defeated it. He would say to the Chair and his Republican friends: I
                            respect you, and expect to treat you as gentlemen, because it is my duty
                            to do so; common courtsey demands it. We may differ politically-differ
                            on questions in legislation, but we shall not forget what is due to
                            gentlemen. It has been intimated that we are prepared to make opposition
                            to everything that does not suit us. But the fact is we have had an
                            agreement only as to these bills-the apportionment and the militia
                            bills. These we have determined to oppose and do what we may to defeat
                            them in their present shape; and this we will do, though the heavens
                            fall, if we bolt until the last moment. He held that the militia bill
                            had not passed the House as the Constitution requires, but would leave
                            the question to the Courts.

                        Mr. CAMERON. Does the gentleman mean to accuse me of falsehood?

                        Mr. HEFFREN. I stated to the House, that I understood the gentleman as
                            stating substantially, that Democratic members here had both failed in
                            their duty and violated their oaths by going outside of the Hall
                            yesterday.

                        Mr. CAMERON. I said that in my opinion it was a violation of our oath
                            here.

                        Mr. HEFFREN. That, I said, if insinuated or charged, was an untruth, and
                            I still say so. I repeat it.

                        Mr. HOLCOMB, (pro forma) said he was in his seat and
                            knew what was done as well as any man, and considered that the journal
                            ought to be corrected.

                        Mr. CRAIN demanded the previous question, and under its force the motion
                            to correct the journal was rejected-yeas 41, nays 55. 

                        
                            REVENUE BILL.
                            On motion of Mr. FRASIER, the special order (the apportionment bill)
                                was suspended for the consideration of the revenue bill;
                                whereupon-

                            Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                reported a revenue bill in place of that of Mr. Branham, [325] which
                                has been lost from the files, entitled, a bill [345] in relation to
                                the application of certain funds to the payment of the public debt,
                                and raising a revenue for the support of common schools ; and it was
                                passed to the second reading. It levies two cents on the $100 for
                                1861, and five cents on the $100 (and fifty cents poll) for 1862,
                                and five years thereafter. It also levies ten cents on the $100, and
                                fifty cents poll for school purposes.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. It levies two cents on the $100 for 1861, as by the act
                                of 1852. For the purpose of liquidating the State debt, after 1861,
                                it provides five cents on the $100 shall be levied. The
                                Commissioners are directed to pay into the general fund the proceeds
                                of the tax this year under the act of 1852. It also provides 10
                                cents on the $100 for school purposes, and 50 cents poll tax. And
                                $50,000 a year of the general fund are to be appropriated toward the
                                liquidation of the $303,000 which the State owes to the school fund.
                                The Committee think that this payment had better be made gradually.
                                The balance of their proceeds-all the surplus of the general fond-to
                                be invested by the Commissioners in the bonds of the State of
                                Indiana at the end of each year. The $50,000 to be distributed
                                annually for the support of common schools.

                            He asked the House to suspend the rules and constitutional provision,
                                and allow the bill to be passed now. The rules were suspended-yeas
                                90, nays 0; and thereupon the bill passed the second reading. It was
                                then considered as engrossed,"and passed the final reading-yeas 91,
                                nays 1-with an amendment of title proposed by Mr. Veatch, viz: "And
                                to repeal all laws in conflict therewith."

                            Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                returned the General Appropriation bill [336], with sundry
                                amendments , which were concurred in.

                            Mr. OWENS suggested that there was nothing in the bill for the
                                completion of the northern prison.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. We had no data before the committee for making that
                                item. We waited as long as we could for the report of the committee.
                                On his motion, the bill was considered as engrossed. 

                            

                            Mr. SHERMAN desired to amend by adding a northern prison item.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. The only item before the committee to base an
                                appropriation upon was the statement of the Auditor of State of the
                                amount overdrawn by the northern prison, which he presented to the
                                House. The sum is over $13,000.

                            On motion by Mr. CRAIN, the statement was referred to the
                                    Committee on Claims.

                            Mr. SHERMAN moved that that sum be included in the bill.

                            Mr. BRANHAM and Mr. CRAIN suggested that the amendment could be as
                                well applied in the Senate, as it might be added to the specific
                                appropriation bill. The Northern Prison Committee
                                had reported there, and 500 copies of their report were ordered to
                                be printed.

                            Mr. SHERMAN complained that his bill for a specific appropriation to
                                the northern prison had been ignored by the Committee on
                                    Ways and Means. He thought this item ought to be in
                                the General Appropriation bill. Not a word of comment had been made
                                in the over draft of twelve or fifteen thousand on account of the
                                Jeffersonville prison.

                            Mr. BRANHAM explained. The committee had been requested by one of the
                                northern prison men to withhold action, till they should make a
                                proposition to settle the whole question.

                            Mr. SHERMAN. That proposition was in his bill.

                            After some conversation between Messrs. Roberts, Branham, Kendrick,
                                and Orr, respecting the $2,000 item for the Governor's House, the
                                bill was passed the third reading : yeas 88, nays 2. 
                        
                        

                        
                            MICHIGAN CITY PRISON.
                            Mr. BURGESS, from a majority of the Special Committee on the affairs
                                of the Northern State Prison, submitted a report in writing-stating,
                                that it would require about $114,000 to complete the northern
                                prison, and make it sufficient for 300 convicts. Two of the
                                Committee were prepared to recommend an appropriation, and go ahead
                                with the work; the majority dissent. On his motion, the report was
                                laid on the table, and it was ordered that 500 copies thereof be
                                printed.

                            Mr. WOODS moved ineffectually to take up the bill 294.

                            On motion of Mr. BUNDY, the Senate's amendment to the interest bill
                                [H. R. 84] "the judgment shall be only . for the principal and
                                interest at six per cent.," &c., was concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON SCHOOL LAW.
                            On motion by Mr. GROVER, the school bill [S. 217] the same as the
                                bill of the House No. 61| was taken up; and (the constitutional
                                Provision being suspended for the purpose) it was passed the first
                                and second readings, and Referred to the Committee on
                                    Education, with, instructions to report immediately;
                                whereupon-

                            Mr. GROVER, from said Committee, returned the bill [S. 217] with
                                sundry amendments of the verbiage, and adding the matter with
                                reference to county examiners and city trustees, reported Monday,
                                and concurred in by the House.

                            The amendments were concurred in. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. CAMERON asked leave to correct the majority report from the
                                    Committee on Apportionment.

                            Mr. BRETT asked leave to file for copy into the journal a statement
                                by himself and Mr Hays that they had not assented to the report nor
                                seen it, and that examination had been denied to Mr. Hays,
                                &c.

                            The matter was ruled out.


                            
                                COMMON SCHOOL LAW.
                                The House resumed the common school bill, [S. 217] as amended;
                                    and it was read through, and further amended in its
                                    verbiage.

                                Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew opposed the bill on the score of the
                                    expensiveness of administration under it, speaking in reply to
                                    Mr. Heffren.

                                Mr. CRAIN. It was a great improvement . on the present school
                                    law. It proposed to leave the school funds at home; that was a
                                    high recommendation.

                                Mr. VEATCH said we provided this morning for the paying back of
                                    those $303,000 which have gone into the general expenses of the
                                    State; and we connected the terms of that with this bill in such
                                    a manner as to provide for the repayment of that money. Now, if
                                    we fail to pass this bill, the old school law will not connect
                                    itself with that revenue bill, so as to get that $303,000 back
                                    to the people.

                                Mr. BUNDY demanded the previous question, and under its force,
                                    the bill was passed the final reading-yeas 74, nays 20.

                                On motion by Mr. GROVER, his bills [341, 342] amending the
                                    assessment laws were considered and passed the second
                                    reading(changing the time of the Treasurer's return of the
                                    delinquent list and settlement from the 15th to the 1st of
                                    October.)

                                Mr. PROSSER opposed; and Mr. BRETT supported the proposed
                                    change.

                                The bill No. 341, was passed the final reading-yeas 88, nays
                                    3.

                                The bill 342 was passed to the third reading. 
                            
                            

                            
                                JEFFERSONVILLE PRISON.
                                Mr. JONES of Vermillion, from the Committee on the
                                        Penitentiary, submitted a written report,
                                    recommending an investigation into the demand for reducing the
                                    price of convict labor, and an appropriation of $12,000. 2. A
                                    regulation prohibiting convicts from being worked outside the
                                    prison walls. 3. The purchase of four acres of ground for a
                                    prison grave yard. 4. An enlargement of the female department of
                                    the prison. 5. A law authorizing a transference of insane
                                    convicts to the Insane Asylum

                                

                                Mr. DOBBINS said the body of the report shows the financial
                                    operations of the prison since 1856.

                                On motion of Mr. McLEAN and Mr. BRANHAM, the report was laid on
                                    the table and the committee was directed to report a bill in
                                    accordance with the recommendations of the report.

                                On motion of Mr. McLEAN, (the orders and constitutional provision
                                    being suspended for the purpose,) the House took up the
                                    consideration of the Sinking Fund bill [S. 114] amendatory of
                                    the 2d and 5th sections of the act of January 28, 1847, was
                                    passed the first and second readings. It was then passed the
                                    third reading-yeas 87, nays 0. 
                            
                            

                            
                                TRUSTEES OF THE BENEVOLENT INSTITUTIONS.
                                On motion of Mr. CAMERON, the concurrent resolution from the
                                    Senate for the election of two Trustees each for the several
                                    Benevolent institutions, and a President of the several Boards,
                                    was taken up and adopted.

                                The SPEAKER announced order of nominations for President of the
                                    Boards.

                                Mr. McLEAN nominated William H. Talbott, of Marion county.

                                Mr. KENDRICK nominated Andrew Wallace, of Marion county. 

                                The vote was reported-

                                
                                    For Wallace...........................57 votes.
                                    For Talbott............................31 votes
                                

                                The SPEAKER thereupon declared Andrew Wallace duly elected-so far
                                    as the House is concerned.

                                Mr. McLEAN nominated Edwin J. Peck, the present incumbent, for
                                    one of the Commissioners of the Asylum for the Insane.

                                Mr. KENDRICK nominated Patrick H. Jameison, of the county of
                                    Marion.

                                
                                    Jameison received...................57 votes.
                                    Peck received ...................29 votes;
                                

                                So, Patrick H. Jameison was declared elected, so far as the House
                                    is concerned.

                                Mr. McLEAN. For the other Commissioner, I nominate Henry Brady,
                                    of Marion.

                                Mr. GROVER. I nominate John W. Moody, of Decatur county.

                                
                                    Moody received.......................47 votes.
                                    Brady received ......................32 votes
                                
                                 So John W. Moody was declared elected, so far as the House is
                                    concerned.

                                Mr. GRESHAM stated that he was now convinced of the wisdom of
                                    carrying politics into these elections. He had not participated
                                    in the caucus that made these nominations, because he thought
                                    the principle wrong-that it would operate injuriously on the
                                    institution. He voted for Henry Brady.

                                Mr. WILSON voted for Brady. It was justice.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            THURSDAY, March 7,1861.
                        

                        The PRESIDENT called the Senate to order at 9 o'clock. 

                        At 10:20 o'clock, the Senate adjourned till 11 o'clock, when the
                            PRESIDENT again called Senators to order.

                        At 11:30 o'clock, the call of the Senate, commenced yesterday afternoon,
                            was proceeded with, and the PRESIDENT announced 41 Senators as
                            present.

                        On motion of Mr. WAGNER, further proceedings in the call were dispensed
                            with.

                        On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the further consideration of the Congressional
                            Apportionment bill was postponed till to-morrow, at 2 o'clock.

                        On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the bill [H. R. 336], making general
                            appropriations for the years 1861 and 1862 was taken up, read the first
                            time, the rules suspended-yeas 42, nays 0-the bill read the second time
                            by title only, and referred to the Committee on
                                Finance.

                        Mr. NEWCOMB submitted instructions to the committee to strike out
                            "$3,000" for contingent fund, and insert "6,000" for this year: $1,000
                            for the Governor's House this year, and "$4,000" for the contingent fund
                            of 1862 instead of "$3,000."

                        Mr. ANTHONY submitted instructions to strike out "$14,000," appropriated
                            for the prison south, and insert "$20,000."These instructions were
                            referred to the committee.

                        On motion by Mr. HAMILTON, the Senate concurred in the House amendment to
                            his bill [107] for the relief of Michael O'Brien.

                        Mr. WAGNER submitted a communication from Talbott & Costigan,
                            contractors of the northern prison, proposing to surrender their
                            contract in consideration of their being paid $13,574 27 and $5,298 50,
                            which was laid on the table, awaiting the printing of the State
                                Prison Committee's report.

                        Mr. MELLETT offered a concurrent resolution, rescinding the above
                            contract, and declaring it to be null and void.

                        Mr. TARKINGTON. The word "fraudulently" is in that resolution, and I move
                            to strike that word out.

                        Mr. MELLETT. When he strikes that word out of the resolution, he strikes
                            out all that there is in it.

                        The resolution was laid on the table.

                        Mr. WAGNER offered a concurrent resolution, accepting the proposition of
                            the contractors, and directing the Committee on
                                Finance to make provision in the appropriation bills for
                            the sums of money-named ; which was also laid on the table.

                        And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Reports from Committees were made and concurred in as follows:

                            
                                By Mr. MELLETT: Judiciary-returning the
                                    bill H. R. 129-see page 121 of these Reports-recommending
                                    pas-sage.

                                By Mr. DE HART: Judiciary-returning the
                                    Senate bill [176] regulating the granting of pardons,
                                    recommending that it lie on the table. 

                                

                                By Mr. MARCH: Judiciary-returning his bill
                                    [273] recommending passage.
                            

                            A message from the House, inviting the Senate to a joint convention
                                at two o'clock, for the purpose of electing three Directors of the
                                Northern State Prison and one Director of the Southern State Prison,
                                was received and concurred in.

                            
                                By Mr. CULVER: County and Township
                                    Business-returning the bill H. R. 76-see page 72 of
                                    these Reports-recommending passage.

                                By Mr. ODELL: Select Committee-returning his bill 89
                                    establishing Probate Courts, recommending passage.

                                By Mr. MILLER: Select Committee-returning the bill H. R.
                                    263-see page 255 of these Reports-recommending that it lie on
                                    the table.

                                By Mr. NEWCOMB: Select Committee-returning his bill 145-see
                                    page 185 of these Reports-recommending passage with
                                    amendments.

                                By Mr. CLAYPOOL: Finance-returning Senator
                                    Newcomb's bill 69-see page 89-recommending passage with
                                    amendments.
                            

                            On motion, by Mr CLAYPOOL, the rules were suspended, the bill read
                                the third time and finally passed by yeas 37, nays 8.

                            Mr. ANTHONY offered a joint resolution authorizing the State
                                Librarian to make and publish a catalogue of the Indiana State
                                Library for the years 1861-2, and procure the necessary book-binding
                                for said Library; which was rejected by yeas 14, nays 27.

                            An invitation from the House desiring the attendance of Senators
                                instanter on the joint convention, was accepted and the Senate left
                                the Chamber for that purpose. On the return of Senators-

                            The bill [H. R. 283] to provide for the payment of the interest on
                                the State debt due January, 1861, was read the third time and
                                finally passed by yeas 43, nays 0.

                            The bill [H. R. 346] was read the first time, the rules
                                suspended-yeas 46, nays 0-and the bill read the second time by title
                                only.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to amend by striking out 'five " cents and
                                inserting in lieu thereof "two" cents as the amount of tax to be
                                levied for the years after this year to liquidate the State
                                debt.

                            The motion was agreed to by yeas 36, nays 10.The bill was referred to
                                the Finance Committee.

                            Senator Shield's bill 87see page 105 of these Reports-was read the
                                third time.

                            Mr. SHIELDS. This bill is one that contemplates taking $1,000 out of
                                the Swamp Land Fund of Jackson county. It is well understood there,
                                and will be the means of draining hundreds of acres of swamp
                                lands.

                            The bill finally passed-yeas 31, nays 14.

                            Senator Line's bill 54-see pages 69, 171, and 192 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time and finally passed, by yeas 33, nays
                                14.

                            Mr. STEELE, from the Committee on Banks, returned
                                the bill H. R. 62, with a report that the committee were unable to
                                agree.

                            Mr. STEELE said the committee were equally divided. He thought the
                                measure a just one, and hoped it would be passed.

                            Mr. MELLETT moved to indefinitely post-pone the bill.

                            Mr. CONNER made an ineffectual motion-yeas 22, nays 26-to lay this
                                motion on the table.

                            The motion to postpone indefinitely was rejected by yeas 22, nays 22. 

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH-yeas 25, nays 22-the bill was laid on the
                                table.

                            Senator March's bill 1-see pages 6, 74, and 226 of these Reports-was
                                read the third time.

                            Mr. MARCH. As originally introduced, this bill embraced State as well
                                as county officers, but afterwards amended so as to include township
                                officers. All that part in relation to State officers has been
                                stricken out. This is simply an embezzlement bill, upon the same
                                principles as the one we have passed.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL. If this bill is passed, there ought to be an
                                appropriation for the purchase of safes for every county and
                                township officer in the State. Senators ought to consider before
                                passing this bill. It will create an annoyance and disturbance
                                throughout the whole system.

                            Mr. WAGNER. The object of this bill is to lock up money all over this
                                State. Our people are sufficiently oppressed with hard times now and
                                such a bill as this should not be passed at this time. I move to
                                indefinitely postpone the bill.

                            The motion was agreed to, by yeas 25, nays 19.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Finance,
                                returned the bill H. R. 336 with amendments, appropriating $15,000
                                for the salary of officers of the State's prison north, and $14,000
                                for the current expenses of the prison south for the year 1862.
                                Also, making the contingent fund "$5,000" instead of "$1,000," and
                                allowing $1,200 for furniture for the Governor's house.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN moved to concur in the committee's report, with an
                                amendment appropriating $50,000 for the purpose of furnishing
                                material to prosecute the work on the northern State prison for the
                                years 1861 and 1862.

                            On motion by Mr. JOHNSON, this amendment was laid on the table-yeas
                                30, nays 16.

                            Mr. TEEGARDEN moved to concur with an amendment appropriating $1,000
                                for the purpose of procuring wrought iron bedsteads for the Insane
                                Hospital.

                            This motion was agreed to.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the bill was considered as engrossed, and
                                read the third time.

                            Mr. BEARSS moved to recommit with instructions to amend by striking
                                out u $15,000 " where it occurs as an appropriation for the Northern
                                Prison, and insert "$10,000."

                            Mr. LANDERS submitted further instructions to strike out all that
                                relates to appropriating money to furnish the Governor's house.

                            Mr. TURNER moved to lay these motions on the table.

                            A division of the question being called for-

                            

                            The motion to recommit was laid on the table by yeas 25, nays 14.

                            Mr. WAGNER demanded the previous question, and the motion being
                                seconded by 30 Senators, the bill finally passed by yeas 30, nays
                                13.

                            The Senate took a recess till 7 1/2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.
                            The bill H. R. 294 was read the first time, the rules suspended-yeas
                                34, nays 2-read the second time by title only, and ordered engrossed
                                for a third reading to-morrow. 

                            The bill [H. R. 64], to authorize aliens to hold lands in the State
                                of Indiana by purchase or otherwise, was read the third time, and
                                finally passed by yeas 36, nays 1.

                            On motion by Mr. FERGUSON, the bill [H. R. 236] to revise the act
                                incorporating the Alton, Mount Carmel and N. A. R. R. Co., &c.,
                                was read the first time, the rules suspended-yeas 86, nays 1-read
                                the second time by title only, and referred to the
                                    Committee on Corporations.

                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the bill [H. R. 42], having reference to
                                the sale of a county seminary in Gibson county, was read the third
                                time, and finally passed by yeas 26, nays 10.Senator Stone's bill
                                194see page 237 of these Reports-was read the third time, and
                                finally passed by yeas 34, nays 4.

                            The bill H. R. 186 was read the second time and ordered
                                engrossed.

                            Senator White's Northern Prison bill 278 was read the second time,
                                and referred to the Committee on Finance.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Finance,
                                returned the bill H. R. 346, in relation to applying certain funds
                                for the liquidation of the State debt, and raising revenue for the
                                support of common schools-recommending passage, with the amendments
                                thereto proposed by Senator Newcomb this afternoon. The report was
                                concurred in, the bill read the third time, and finally passed by
                                yeas 30, nays 11.

                            On motion by Mr. BEARSS, his bill 249-page 289was read the third
                                time, [he said it makes a change in the law by not requiring a
                                license for pay concerts, exhibitions of statuary or works of art,]
                                and finally passed by yeas 37, nays 4.

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, the bill H. R. 133, was read the first
                                time, the rules suspended-yeas 35, nays 7-read the second time by
                                title only, and referred to the Judiciary
                                    Committee.

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the proposition of Talbott &
                                Costigan, submitted this forenoon, was taken from the table.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON moved its reference to the Finance
                                    Committee.

                            Mr. BEARSS moved to refer it to the State Prison
                                    Committee.

                            On motion by Mr. MURRAY, this motion was laid on the table.

                            It was referred to the Finance Committee.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the resolutions were taken up, and took the
                                same reference.

                            On motion by Mr. ROBINSON, the Bridge bill II. R. 103 was read, and
                                finally passed by yeas 35, nays 4.

                            Senator Wagners bill 218see page 252 on his motion, was read the
                                third time, and finally passed by yeas 31, nays 8.

                            On motion by Mr. TEEGARDEN, his bill 120-see page 163 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time, [he said the object of this bill
                                was to enable cities to run their governments without going into
                                debt,] and finally passed by yeas 30, nays 10.Mr. BLAIR, from the
                                Committee on Finance. returned the bill [S. 248], requiring the
                                State printer to furnish paper, &c.. recommending passage. The
                                report was concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. DEHART, the bill was read the third time, and
                                finally passed by yeas 33, nays 7.

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, his bill [100], to create the 14th
                                judicial circuit, was read the third time.

                            This bill was rejected by yeas 15, nays 24.

                            Senator Wagner's Book-Binding bill 172-see page 212 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 36, nays
                                0.

                            On motion by Mr. MILLER, his bill 237-described on page 272-was read
                                the third time, and finally passed by yeas 35, nays 0.

                            Senator Cobb's bill 184 (see page 226) was read the third time, and
                                finally passed by yeas 33, nays 1.

                            And then the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            THURSDAY, March 7,1861.
                        

                        On motion of Mr. STOTSENBERG, Mr. Collins, of Whitley, was called to the
                            Chair at 9 o'clock.

                        Mr. FERGUSON asked, ineffectually, for the consideration of the bill from
                            the Senate [277.]

                        Mr. KENDRICK submitted a claims petition which was referred without
                            reading.

                        On motion of Mr. PROSSER, the House took up and concurred in the Senate's
                            amendments to his bill [248], fixing the Courts in the First Circuit. 

                        
                            CORPORATIONS-SPECIAL SCHOOL TAX
                            Mr. SMITH'S, of Bartholomew, bill [145] to amend the 33d section of
                                the assessment act, of June 21, 1852, [so as to make corporations
                                pay special school tax just as individuals-as Mr. Smith explained-]
                                coming up in the calendar on the third reading, it was finally
                                passed by the House of Representatives-yeas 71, nays 6.

                            Mr. MUTZ and Mr. HOLCOMB obtained leave of absence-sickness. 
                        
                        

                        
                            BANK DISTRICTS.
                            Mr. HURD'S bill, [269] supplemental to the  act to establish a bank with branches,
                                [the bank of the State may alter or re-district any bank district in
                                the State, upon petition of two-thirds of the stockholders, provided
                                that no branch shall be located in any town where one is already
                                located and doing business] coming up, it was passed the final
                                reading-yeas 54, nays 29. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COSTS IN CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
                            Mr. CASON'S bill, [154] to amend the justices act, of May 29, 1852,
                                in State prosecutions, [adding the words "costs""shall stand
                                committed till the fine and costs be paid "] coming up, it was
                                passed the final reading-yeas 62, nays 21. 
                        
                        

                        
                            HEIRS OF MICHAEL O'BRIEN.
                            The bill [S. 107] for the relief of the heirs of Michael O'Brien,
                                deceased, was passed finally-yeas 84, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RECORDER'S FEES.
                            The Judiciary Committee's bill (substitute for Mr.
                                Irwin's) [187] authorizing Recorders to demand payment of their fees
                                in advance, coming up-

                            Mr. CRAIN desired unanimous consent to amend by a provision making
                                such fees a lien on real estate. But it was objected to.

                            Mr. JENKINSON. That's the law now. The bill's a nullity.

                            Mr. NEBEKER. It's a small fee that parties some times neglect.

                            Mr. COLLINS. of Adams. His Recorder had made the impression that his
                                fees must be paid in advance. It was a lien on the reality
                                anyhow.

                            Mr. BUNDY demanded the previous question, and thereupon the bill was
                                lost-yeas 48, nays 32-for want of a constitution majority. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PROBATE PAPERS.
                            Mr. Gifford's bill [127] To give the several clerks of the courts of
                                common pleas custody of the papers of the former probate courts,
                                coming up, it was passed the final reading-yeas 68, nays 5. 
                        
                        

                        
                            ORANGE COMMON PLEAS.
                            Mr. Black's bill [165] To amend section 3 of the common pleas act of
                                March 5, 1855, so as to change the time in Orange county, coming up,
                                it was passed the final reading-yeas 69, nays 0. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COUNTY LIBRARIES.
                            Mr. Kendrick's bill [10] Authorizing county libraries to loan certain
                                funds, and regulating the same, coming up-

                            Mr. KENDRICK. The only object was to grant the privilege to county
                                libraries to loan their money out at seven per cent., as other trust
                                funds are loaned.

                            The bill was finally passed the House yeas 65, nays 3.

                            Mr. FRASIER made an ineffectual motion to take up the bill to
                                regulate the prices of the Public printng. 
                        
                        

                        
                            COMMON PLEAS DISTRICTS.
                            Mr. Henrick's bill [185] To provide for numbering the several
                                districts of the court of common pleas in the State of Indiana,
                                coming up-

                            Mr. HENRICKS stated that the only object of the bill was to designate
                                these districts by number, for convenience of legal reference.

                            The bill was finally passed the House-yeas 70, nays 1.

                            Mr. ROBERTS. I ask to record my vote. Mr. Speaker, have I not the
                                right, under the rule, to record my vote ?

                            The SPEAKER would inform gentlemen that the Chair is not governed
                                strictly by the rules now. This Chair will announce that hereafter
                                it will not recognize any application to vote after the result is,
                                announced.

                            Mr. ROBERTS. Then I hope that gentlemen will not be recorded as being
                                present and refusing to vote.

                            Mr. Stotsenberg's bill [US] To authorize judges of the circuit and
                                common pleas courts to make certain orders in vacation, coming
                                up-

                            Mr. HEFFREN. As the law now stands, the judge can't grant an
                                injunction unless the court is in the county where the matter lies.
                                This bill legalizes such acts; and it would put parties into'court
                                against law, in a case to which he referred. He asked unanimous
                                consent to strike out all that part which makes these acts of the
                                judge legal in pending cases. It was agreed to ; and so the bill
                                passed-yeas 79, nays 1. 
                        
                        

                        
                            RAILROADS.
                            Mr. Lane's railroad bill [195] To amend section 34, chapter 83 of the
                                Revised Statutes, 1852, coming up-

                            Mr. LANE said, the only amendment proposed to be made in the law was
                                to extend the time of completion to 20 years. It was important that
                                this provision should be applied to the Indiana and Illinois Central
                                Railroad, upon which upwards of a million of dollars had been
                                expended, as he had before explained.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. It involved large interests; and, as at present advised,
                                he could not vote for it.

                            Mr. CASON proposed to amend by unanimous consent: "Provided nothing
                                in this act contained shall be taken to revive or renew any railroad
                                charter, or revive or extend the charter of any other railroad
                                company that has forfeited its charter by non-feasance or
                                non-usance, nor shall any thing herein operate to dismiss any action
                                heretofore commenced by writ of quo warranto or
                                other process to annul or wind up such company."

                            Mr. DOBBINS. The amendment would have the effect to repeal a bill
                                lately passed the House.

                            Mr. CASON could not support the bill without the amendment. He wished
                                to avoid legislation for the advantage of such bogus rail road concerns as the St. Louis
                                and Cleveland Railroad, &c. The amendment could not operate as
                                the gentleman from Martin supposes. He moved to commit the bill to
                                the Committee on the Judiciary with instructions
                                to amend as above.

                            Mr. DAVIS desired unanimous consent to amend, so that its provisions
                                shall apply only to the Indiana and Illinois Railroad.

                            SEVERAL VOICES. " Special legislation" - "unconstitutional."

                            Mr. UNDERWOOD. The bill No. 250, embraces the same principles of this
                                bill; and an amendment similar to Mr. Cason's has been engrafted
                                upon that bill. He supposed, if this bill were defeated that could
                                be passed.

                            The bill went to the Judiciary Committee. 
                        
                        

                        
                            HOTELS-GYMNASTICS.
                            Mr. Hopkins' bill [15] to amend section 2 of the act concerning the
                                organization of voluntary associations, and repealing, &c.,
                                approved February 12, 1855, coming up-

                            Mr. BARRETT. It was simply inserting into the act recited, the words,
                                " Hotel and Gymnastic."

                            The bill was finally passed-yeas 79, nays 8. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SUPREME COURT REPORTS.
                            The Supreme Court Reporter bill [116] coming up(price of
                                Reports-first 2 years $3 afterwards $4-)

                            Mr. FRASIER desired to introduce an amendment to exclude the
                                compilaton of law-years' brief in the published reports.

                            On motion of Mr. CAMERON, it was laid on the table, and then, under
                                the previous question, the bill was rejected-yeas 37, nays 29. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SLACK WATER NAVIGATION.
                            Mr. Welle's bill [188] to provide for the organization of Slack-water
                                Navigation Companies, coming up-

                            Mr. DOBBINS. There ought to be a provision for damages, if any should
                                be done.

                            Mr. VEATCH. There is nothing in the bill that will admit of
                                interference with vested rights.

                            Mr. BLACK. Has the company the sole right to fix the tolls ?

                            Mr. VEATCH. Under the direction of the County Board.

                            The bill was passed the final reading in the House of
                                Representatives-yeas 60, nays 23. 
                        
                        

                        
                            TAX EXEMPTIONS.
                            Mr. McLean's bill [239] to amend the 6th section of the assessment
                                act-coming up-

                            Mr. McLEAN. It exempts from taxation any building erected and used
                                exclusively for benevolent, literary or scientific purposes, which
                                have been erected by any corporation, individual or association.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. Would it exempt lawyers' and doctors' offices
                                ?-institutions ?

                            Mr. McLEAN. That would be a forced construction.

                            Mr. CRAIN. It exempts individual institutions. It will exempt from
                                taxation over a million of dollars in the State of Indiana. I know
                                what it is. I have been watching it. &c. He moved its indefinite
                                postponement.

                            Mr. McLEAN replied to objections.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew. There was a cat in the meal tub. There was
                                too much disposition here to favor exemptions.

                            Mr. VEATCH. Whatever encourages learning-any question about exempting
                                institutions to facilitate and encourage learning, always hurts the
                                sensibilities of some gentlemen. They were forward to exempt public
                                property of the State and country, but their votes were always ready
                                to tax the benevolence, philanthropy, and liberality of men,
                                &c.

                            Mr. PACKARD concurred, giving examples.

                            Mr. CRAIN. If the gentleman will strike out "individual," I will vote
                                for it.

                            Mr. McLEAN would acquiese in that.

                            Mr. GRESHAM concurred in the views o of the gentleman from Parke,
                                giving examples.

                            Mr. BUNDY considered it a just and beneficent bill, and plead for all
                                manner of encouragement to educational institutions.

                            Mr. HOPKINS would encourage educational institutions, to save money
                                to the State which is now going out to educate our children in other
                                States.

                            Mr. RAGAN concurred in this. The traveling expenses to send to school
                                without the State would more than pay all this tax here proposed to
                                be exempted. He also gave examples.

                            Mr. ROBBINS also spoke in favor of the bill.

                            Mr. JENKINSON moved the previous question, and there was a
                                second.

                            Mr. ORR had an amendment.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. The bill contained unconstitutional provisions.

                            Mr. WOODS gave inaudible words of opposition, in the confusion about
                                the second for the previous question.

                            Mr. CRAIN withdrew his motion for a direct vote; and the bill failed
                                (yeas 44, nays 29), for want of a constitutional majority.

                            Mr. GRESHAM submitted a concurrent resolution, which was adopted, for
                                a joint convention of the two Houses this day at two o'clock, to
                                elect two directors of the northern State prison, and one director
                                for the southern prison. 
                        
                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            Mr. STOTSENBERG introduced a bill [347] to authorize any agricultural
                                and mechanical association (or either of them) to mortgage their
                                lands, fixtures, and other property, in order to make improvements ;
                                and to authorize them to issue and sell lands for the same
                                object.

                            On the motion of Mr. COOPRIDER, his Swamp Land Ditch bill [204] was
                                taken from the table, and placed again in the files. 
                        
                        
                    
                    
                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, MARCH 14, 1861
                        No. 23
                    

                    
                        
                        

                            Mr. BRETT asked to submit, without reading, a communication from Dr.
                                Athon, and it was referred to the Committee on Benevolent
                                    Institutions.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG submitted the following :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            WHEREAS, it is eminently proper and
                                            expedient, for the purpose of preserving the public
                                            peace and tranquility and maintaining the Union of the
                                            States, that every peaceable remedy should be exhausted,
                                            and every practicable measure adopted, which may be
                                            calculated to arrest the further progress of secession,
                                            reunite our dismembered confederacy, and prevent civil
                                            war; therefore,

                                        

                                            Resolved, That the
                                                  Committee on the Judiciary be,
                                                and they are hereby instructed to report a bill,
                                                providing for the election by general ticket of
                                                delegates to a national convention of all the
                                                States.

                                            Resolved, That said
                                                committee be, and are hereby further instructed to
                                                provide in such bill for the submission of the
                                                amendments to the federal Constitution, lately
                                                proposed by the Hon. John J. Crittenden, in the
                                                Senate of the United States, to a direct vote of the
                                                people of Indiana at the election thus provided for
                                                the choice of such delegates, so that the sense of
                                                the people of Indiana may be taken thereon. 

                                            Resolved further, by the
                                                House of Representatives, the Senate concurring
                                                therein, that the Congress of the United States be,
                                                and they are hereby requested to call a convention
                                                of all the States at an early day, for the purpose
                                                of proposing and considering amendments to the
                                                Federal Constitution, upon the application of the
                                                Legislatures of two-thirds of the States; in which
                                                application the State of Indiana joins.
                                        
                                    
                                
                            

                        
                        

                        
                            CALUMET FEEDER DAM.

                            On the motion of Mr. WOODS, the House took up the unfinished
                                business, it being the consideration of the Committee's bill [24] to
                                provide for the necessary judicial proceedings to procure the
                                removal of the feeder dam across the Calumet river in the State of
                                Illinois,"and to provide for the expense of said suit-the question
                                being in the adoption of Mr. Stotsenberg's amendment, striking out
                                "$2,000," and inserting "$300."

                            On the motion of Mr. FISHER, the amendment was laid on the table.

                            Mr. DAVIS proposed to strike out "$2,000," and insert "$1,000."

                            Mr. HEFFREN inquired if these overflowed lands in Lake county were
                                not owned by speculators ?

                            Mr. WOODS said there were settlers known to him who had been driven
                                from their premises by the overflow caused, by this dam. In 1852 a
                                law was passed for draining these swamp lands, and settlers bought
                                these lands in good faith under that law, believing that they had
                                the right to drain them under that law. But the State of Illinois
                                had sent an attorney to this body, in 1857, Isaac N. Arnold, a
                                shrewd man, who had represented here that these lands belonged to
                                speculators; and through his representation the General Assembly
                                legislated against the people of Indiana, and for the benefit of an
                                Illinois corporation. Let any gentleman turn over the journals of
                                1857, and see how the act of 1857 was got up. It was founded on a
                                falsehood against the rights of citizens of Indiana. For eight years
                                these settlers have suffered this injustice from the State of
                                Illinois, and they come here to ask whether they are to be farther
                                intruded upon, and longer prevented from occupying and improving
                                their farms ?

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The Senator and Representative from Lake county, and
                                from that district, supported the act of 1857. If the rights of the
                                people from Lake have been invaded from Illinois, they have their
                                remedy in the District Court of the United States.

                            Mr. WOODS said. In connection with this legislation of 1857 referred
                                to, I would state that in that very curious piece of legislation,
                                that that bill, as first introduced into this House, gave authority
                                for Illinois to keep up the dam for 10 years-the State of Indiana
                                legislating in favor of a corporation in the State of Illinois, and
                                against her own citizens. The gentleman from Washington, alluded to
                                the part our own member took in favor of the law of 1857. We well
                                know it, and right well remember him for it. He has also alluded to
                                the Senator that then represented our Senatorial district as
                                favoring the bill; I say, if he was in favor of that damnable
                                iniquity, he was a bigger rogue than I thought he was. Some may
                                think that the present Senator now representing that district is the
                                person alluded to, I take great pleasure in saying that it is not
                                so. The present Senator honestly represents the interests of that
                                district. I do not wish to consume time, or endanger the bill, as
                                some relief is better than none. I therefore accept the amendment of
                                the gentleman from Scott.

                            Mr. SHERMAN. It was to the advantage of the State to have these lands
                                drained. There were two school sections under water.

                            Mr. HEFFREN. The feeder dam was erected in 1847, and we got the swamp
                                lands in 852, with that incumbrance.

                            Mr. FISHER. The law restraining these  people from draining their lands, was
                                to restrain them from abating a wrong they suffered.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. Here was but $1,000 to pay the expense of a suit in
                                which 30,000 acres, probably a million of dollars, were
                                involved.

                            The matter was passed over. 
                        
                        

                        
                            PRISON DIRECTORS.

                            A message from the Senate announced that that body had concurred in
                                the resolution of the House for a Joint Convention at two o'clock,
                                this day, for the election of one Director for the State Prison
                                South, and three Commissioners for the State Prison North. 
                        
                        

                        
                            JOINT CONVENTION.
                            The President of the Senate in the chair, announced the order of
                                election of one Prison Director for the State Prison South under the
                                act of 1857, and three Commissioners of the State Prison North,
                                under the act of 1859.

                            For Director of the Prison South-

                            Mr. GRESHAM nominated John W. Ray of Clark county.

                            Mr. HEFFREN (without caucus instructions) nominated Andrew L.
                                Caruthers of Clark county.

                            Mr. Senator ANTHONY said he had authorized him to withdraw his name,
                                if it should be used here.

                            Mr. McLEAN suggested, since it is doubtful whether the Directorship
                                of Samuel H. Buskirk is vacant or not, that a blank vote would be
                                proper.

                            
                                Ray received.........................81 votes.
                                Blank received........................34 votes.
                                Scattering received.................. 6 votes.
                            

                             The President of the Senate thereupon declared that John W. Ray, of
                                Clark county, had received a majority of all the votes cast, and was
                                duly elected a Director of the State Prison South, to serve four
                                yeard.

                            For Director of the Prison North-

                            Mr. BOYDSTON nominated William Williams, of Kosciusko county.

                            Mr. Senator MURRAY nominated Wm. A. , Jennings.

                            
                                Williams received....................84 votes.
                                Jennings received....................46 votes.
                                Scattering.............................. 4 votes.
                            

                            Whereupon William Williams, of Kosciusko :county, was declared to be
                                duly elected a Director of the State Prison North, to serve two
                                years, from the date of his election and qualification.

                            The Directors of the Prison North-

                            Mr. ORR nominated Milton S. Robinson, of Madison.

                            Mr. Senator CONLEY nominated C. W. McDaniel, of Greene county.

                            
                                Robinson received....................85 votes.
                                McDaniel received...................48 votes.
                                Scattering.............................. 3 votes.
                            

                            Milton S. Robinson was thereupon declared to be duly elected, to
                                serve two years.

                            For Director for the Prison North-

                            Mr. Senator CONNER nominated Hugh Hanna, of Wabash county.

                            Mr. DOBBINS nominated Bazil Edmundson, of Dubois county.

                            
                                Hanna received.......................84 votes.
                                Edmundson received................42 votes.
                                Scattering.............................. 6 votes.
                            

                             Hugh Hanna was thereupon declared to be duly elected, to serve two
                                years.

                            The PRESIDENT of the Senate prorogued the Joint Convention with these
                                words: The Senate will now take a final and affectionate farewell of
                                the House of Representatives.

                            The SPEAKER. Gentlemen of the House of Representatives ; As a token
                                of respect toward the President and members of the more dignified
                                branch of the General Assembly, you will stand uncovered till they
                                retire. 
                        
                        

                        
                            CALUMET FEEDER DAM.
                            The House resumed the bill No. 294: the question being on Mr. Davis'
                                amendment.

                            Mr. WOODS accepted the amendment of Mr. Davis.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG. If the bill in the present state of the case will
                                benefit the people of Lake county, he was for it. He was governed in
                                this by the report of the Attorney General, and the action of the
                                committee thereupon.

                            Mr. FRASIER spoke ironically of the support of Mr. Stotsenberg in
                                connection with his amendment limiting the expenses of this suit to
                                $300; and then demanded the previous question: whereupon, Mr. Davis'
                                amendment was adopted; and so amended, the bill was read and passed
                                the final reading-yeas 66, nays 18. 
                        
                        

                        
                            SAMUEL H. PATTERSON.
                            Mr. SLOAN, from the Committee on Claims, returned
                                the petition and claim of Samual H. Patterson, for $1,600 on account
                                of labor of seven convicts illegally sent to prison by the Common
                                Pleas Courts before that court had criminal jurisdiction ; with a
                                detailed statement of the case; recommending that the committee on
                                Ways and Means provide for the payment of the same in the
                                appropriation bill.

                            Mr. JENKINSON resisted the report.

                            Mr. HEFFREN defended-stating the case in full &c.

                            There were 63 convicts released, because of an unconstitutional
                                law.

                            Mr. BUNDY. It was and old claim, and it was too late in the session
                                now to investigate it.

                            Mr. BRANHAM. There was no doubt as to the entire justice of the
                                claim.

                            Mr. JENKINSON said Patterson kept those men in prison after he knew
                                they ought to be discharged, and they transferred their accounts to
                                Randall Crawford to sue Patterson in revenge for this.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG also stated the case. Patterson was mulcted for
                                observing an unconstitutional
                                law. It was for the wages of these men from June 1853, to November
                                1854, imprisoned under a void law. Patterson had paid the State for
                                their labor, under his contract. He could not have discharged
                                them.

                            On motion by Mr. PARRETT, the report was laid on the
                                table-affirmative 45, negative 31-Mr. GRESHAM giving notice of a
                                motion to reconsider.

                            Mr. CAMERON moved to reconsider this vote, and then to lay the motion
                                to reconsider on the table.

                            The latter motion was rejected-yeas 42, nays 42-and the question
                                recurred on reconsideration.

                            Mr. GRESHAM. The only point for consideration was, has the Committee
                                reported the case correctly. He defended Mr. Patterson's acts in the
                                case.

                            Mr. WOODHULL was willing to vote for the claim upon the Committee's
                                report.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, would vote for the allowance.

                            Mr. FRASIER. If the claim was a good one, he could get it hereafter
                                with interest.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN, (Mr. Davis in the chair,) Patterson was bound to
                                work these prisoners, and he has been sued by the prisoners, and
                                mulcted for their wages, which he has once paid to the State. He
                                objected to making any difference between this action when the State
                                is one party, and action as between individuals. It was the bounden
                                duty of the Legislature to pay all just claims against the State,
                                &c.

                            Mr. BUNDY was not satisfied of the justness of the claim, and could
                                not now vote for it.

                            Mr. CRAIN also spoke against the allowance.

                            Mr. DOBBINS supported the claim, referring to the action of the
                                Committee in the case.

                            Mr. MOORMAN demanded the previous question, and therupon the House
                                refused to reconsider-yeas 42, nays 42.

                            Mr. BRANHAM from the Committee on Ways and Means,
                                reported the Specific Appropriation bill, entitled a bill [348]
                                making specific appropriations for the year 1861, which was passed
                                to the second reading.

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, (the rule and constitutional provision
                                being suspended for the purpose,) the bill was read the second time
                                by title.

                            On motion by Mr. FRASIER, an evening session was ordered: and then
                                the House took a recess till 7 1 2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.

                            A message from the Senate announced the passage in that body of the
                                General Appropriation bill, with amendments, and other action.

                            The House resumed the Specific Appropriation bill.

                            Mr. BRANHAM proposed., to strike out and insert " $244," the $4 per
                                diem compensation of the principal clerk, Jonathan W. Gordon, and
                                the first assistant clerk, Asa P. Newkirk.

                            After debate, cut off at length by the previous question, the
                                amendment was adopted yeas 59, nays 14.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to make the compensation of the three Clerks
                                assisting the principal clerk, also four dollars a clay, which was
                                agreed to without a division.

                            Mr. VEATCH proposed $3 a clay for the principal clerk of the
                                Stationery Room, and $2 a day for each of his assistants ; which was
                                agreed to.

                            Mr. BRANHAM proposed $4 a day for each of the four journal clerks ;
                                which was agreed to.

                            And so the bill was read through, receiving sundry amendments.

                            Mr. BUNDY proposed $500 each for compensation to the Commissioners of
                                the State of Indiana, appointed by the Governor to represent the
                                State in the late Peace Conference at Washington.

                            Mr. SHERMAN proposed $600 each ; which was laid on the table.

                            Mr. Bundy's amendment was then adopted.

                            Mr. FRASIER, for Mr. HENRICKS, proposed that Ariel and W. H. Drapier
                                be allowed $500 for 500 copies of the Brevier Reports; which was
                                adopted-yeas 59, nays 13, as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Anderson, Atkisson,
                                            Bingham, Black, Boydston, Branham, Brett, Brucker,
                                            Burgess, Cameron, Cason, Collins of Adams, Combs,
                                            Cooprider, Davis, Erwin, Feagler, Ferguson, Fisher,
                                            Fleming, Ford, Fordyce, Fraley, Frasier, Gifford, Gore,
                                            Grover, Haworth, Heffren, Henricks, Hudson, Jenkinson,
                                            Jones of Vermillion, Jones of Wayne, Kitchen, Lods,
                                            Owens, Packard, Parrett, Pitts, Polk, Prosser, Prow,
                                            Ragan, Randall, Roberts, Sherman, Sloan, Stevenson,
                                            Stotsenberg, Trier, Turner, Veatch, Warrum, Williams,
                                            Woodhull, Woods, and Mr. Speaker-59.

                                        
                                            NAYS-Messrs. Campbell, Collins of
                                            Whitley, Epperson, Lane, Lightner, Moorman, Nebeker,
                                            Newman, Orr, Robbins, Smith of Miami, Thompson and
                                            Underwood-13.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. MOODY proposed $1,500, $3 per diem and mileage, &c., for
                                compensation of the Swamp Land Investigation Committee, &c.

                            Mr. HEFFREN proposed to amend by striking out "$3" and inserting "$4"
                                in lieu; and striking out all that relates to mileage.

                            Mr. MOODY accepted, and so it was agreed to.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG moved to reconsider this vote.

                            Mr. HEFFREN moved to lay the motion to reconsider on the table-which
                                was agreed to-yeas 47, nays 13-no quorum voting.

                            The House then, at 11.5, adjourned. 
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            FRIDAY, March 8,1861.
                        

                        Mr. BEESON moved that the journal of yesterday be not read.

                        Mr. SLACK objected, and held that any one Senator has a right to demand
                            the reading of the journal.

                        

                        The PRESIDENT decided it as wholly in the province of the Senate to
                            exercise its discretion as to the reading of the journal or not.

                        Mr. SLACK appealed from this decision, and asked the judgment of the
                            Senate thereon.

                        On motion by Mr. MURRAY-yeas 25, nays 16-the appeal was laid on the
                            table.

                        Mr. WOLFE moved to reconsider the vote taken last night by which the
                            Bridge bill [H. R. 103] was passed. I am satisfied this bill is wrong.
                            It provides that where bridges are built upon a county line the expenses
                            shall be paid by each county in proportion to the value of property in
                            each, making a large county pay twice as much as a small county, in case
                            it is twice as wealthy.

                        Mr. ROBINSON insisted that the bill was right. It can work no hardship in
                            any case. It is fair in the abstract, and its application is right in
                            every particular. He moved to lay the motion to reconsider on the
                            table.

                        This motion was agreed to-yeas 26, nays 15.

                        Mr. RAY offered the following :

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                         WHEREAS, The session of the General
                                        Assembly is within two days of its close for legislative
                                        purposes, and whereas, bills have not been passed nor
                                        matured for apportioning the State for Congressional and
                                        State purposes, and their passage has now become improbable,
                                        if not impossible, under the Constitution and the rules of
                                        the Senate, at the present session, therefore,

                                    Resolved by the Senate, (the House of
                                            Representatives concurring,) That the laws now in
                                        force for the districting the State of Indiana for
                                        Congressional purposes, and also for districting the State
                                        for Senatorial and Representative purposes, be continued,
                                        and the same are hereby declared to be in force for the
                                        ensuing two years, for the purpose of electing members of
                                        Congress and State Senators and Representatives, and that
                                        all persons in authority in this State are hereby directed
                                        to recognize said laws as valid and in force for the next
                                        two years.
                                
                            
                        

                        Objection being made to its reception-

                        Mr. RAY moved to suspend the order of business.

                        On motion by Mr. ANTHONY-yeas 25, nays 16-this motion was laid on the
                            table.

                        On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, the order of business was dispensed with to
                            enable him to offer a joint resolution ratifying the amendment proposed
                            by Congress to the Constitution of the United States; which was referred
                            to the Committee on Federal Relations under the
                            rule.

                        Mr. CRAVENS (Mr. Wagner in the Chair) moved to take from the table the
                            bill [H. R. 62] creating five additional branches of the Bank of the
                            State of Indiana, that it may be put on its passage. He supported his
                            motion in a few remarks.

                        Mr. MARCH opposed the motion. At this time, with all the uncertainties of
                            the future before us, how can gentlemen multiply and increase the paper
                            money power of this State. We must legislate for the masses, and let
                            these partial interests take care of themselves.

                        Mr. STEELE. The passage of the bill would dispense benefits over certain
                            portions of the State, which are sought for. He hoped the bill would be
                            taken up.

                        Mr. MELLETT. The interest of the State of Indiana do not demand this
                            bill. He opposed the concentrating of banking and political power, and
                            as a consequence preferred to see the building up of free banks.

                        Mr. CLAYPOOL. He was satisfied that if this bill did pass the State Bank
                            would create no additional branches this year or during the present
                            financial crisis.

                        Mr. JOHNSON. If gentlemen think Indiana money is better than the money of
                            other States, then they ought to vote for this bill; money we must have,
                            and if we can't get it a home we will have to go abroad for it.

                        Mr. MURRAY was opposed to this law because it comes in conflict with the
                            free banking system of the State. There is not one single dollar of
                            security to the people for this State Bank currency, for it issues two
                            dollars for one. This bill has got to pass, though, for he never saw a
                            bank bill that could not pass the Legislature. 

                        Mr. ODELL. It is a fact that the Bank of the State has passed out of the
                            hands that originated it, and is now in the hands of good, substantial,
                            financial men. People from my section have to go to New York to get
                            money to remove the produce of the country, and have asked me to favor
                            the extension of bank branches; but as far as I know there has been no
                            influence exerted in favor of this bill by the banks itself.

                        Mr. RAY at first supposed the bill to have merits, but was very soon
                            undeceived. The effect of this bill is to convert $3,000,000 of
                            moonshine-mere nominal stock-into active capital for the benefit of
                            stock holders. He represented a district that has no bank and wants
                            none.

                        Mr. CONNER and Mr. SHIELDS hoped the motion would prevail, and that the
                            bill would eventually pass.

                        Mr. WHITE. When this bill came up in the House I was not favorable to it,
                            and wrote home in regard to it for instructions. I received a letter
                            signed by men of all parties, 200 strong, telling me to go for this
                            measure. We do a large slaughtering business in Montgomery county, and
                            men who carry on this business have to resort to Kentucky, New York, or
                            wherever money is to be let, to get money to enable them to carry on
                            this business. I approve the sentiment that the people are the source of
                            power, and their wishes should be consulted ; and, under instructions of
                            the people of my county, I will be bound to vote for this bill.

                        Mr. LANDERS. The Bank of the State has become as much of a broker's shop
                            as any in the State; and I can never consent to give my vote to extend
                            the power of that institution Bankers say they don't desire the
                            establishment of additional branches; a majority of the people certainly
                            do not desire it, and now why not let the matter drop ?

                        Mr. COBB. An increase of the number of branches would not be a benefit to
                            the people,  neither is it demanded
                            by them. That bank has always failed to supply the demand for currency
                            when most needed. It has the power, and when it sees fit, will suspend
                            every branch in the State.

                        Mr. HAMILTON did not care whether this bill passed or not, but believed
                            the branches would get into good hands, and should vote for the
                            bill.

                        Mr ANTHONY would vote for ten branches if the bill so provided, for he
                            believed that every branch bank created was a means of destroying other
                            institutions called brokers' offices. He wished he could get two or
                            three more branches in his county. Nothing would be more acceptable to
                            his constituents.

                        Mr. FERGUSON favored the motion.

                        Mr. WOLFE thought all banks evils. If it was wrong to charter this
                            institution, it is trebly wrong to increase its powers.

                        Mr. BLAIR made an ineffectual demand-yeas 25, nays 22-for the previous
                            question.

                        Mr. MURRAY made an ineffectual motion-yeas 18; nays 25-to lay on the
                            table the motion to take from the table and put on its passage the
                            bill.

                        Mr. STUDABAKER demanded a division of the question.

                        The motion to take from the table the bill was agreed to by yeas 25, nays
                            18.

                        Mr. MARCH moved to amend the bill as follows: "This power granted to the
                            bank of the State to establish five additional branches, is made upon
                            the express condition that the Bank of the State submits its capital
                            stock and real estate to the same taxation for municipal purposes, as
                            the property of individuals."

                        Mr. CRAVENS made an ineffectual motion-yeas 21, nays 25-to lay this
                            amendment on the table.

                        The amendment was agreed to by yeas 24, nays 22-as follows :

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        YEAS-Messrs. Bearss, Carnahan, Cobb,
                                        Conley, Craven of Madison, DeHart, Dickinson, Ferguson,
                                        Landers, Line, Lomax, March, Mellett, Murray, Newcomb,
                                        O'Brien, Ray, Shoemaker, Slack, Stone, Studabaker, Williams,
                                        Wilson and Wolfe-24.

                                    NAYS-Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Berry,
                                        Blair, Campbell, Claypool, Conner, Cravens of Jefferson,
                                        Culver, Hamilton, Hull, Johnson, Miller, Odell, Robinson,
                                        Shields, Steele, Tarkington, Teegarden, Turner, Wagner and
                                        White-22.
                                
                            
                        

                        Mr. MARCH offered an amendment, substantially a copy from the old Bank of
                            the State charter, in relation to subscribing for stock.

                        Mr. NEWCOMB. If this amendment is adopted, these bank branches will never
                            go into operation, and consequently he should have to vote against
                            it.

                        The amendment was rejected by yeas 21, nays 25-the same vote as the
                            above, except that Senators Ferguson, Newcomb and Wilson voted nay.

                        Mr. CRAVENS moved to recommit the bill with instructions to amend by
                            striking out the municipal tax and inserting a ten per cent, school
                            tax.

                        On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, this motion was laid on the table by yeas
                            23, nays 21.Mr. COBB moved to amend by striking out from the enacting
                            clause and inserting a provision that the Bank of the Stste shall have
                            power to change the location of any three of its branches, &c.

                        On motion by Mr. CONNER, this amendment was laid on the table by yeas 25,
                            nays 19.

                        Mr. HAMILTON moved to lay the bill on the table.

                        Mr. MARCH made an ineffectual motion-yeas 17, nays 27-to indefinitely
                            postpone the bill.

                        And then came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            On motion by Mr. MILLER, the House amendment to the Common School
                                bill [S. 217] were read and concurred in by consent.

                            On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN, the bill [H. R.81] To quiet title to a
                                certain piece of land in Vanderburg county,was read the third time,
                                and finally passed by yeas 39, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. DEHART, the bill [H. R. 296] fixing the times of
                                holding courts in Ben-ton county was read and finally passed by yeas
                                39, nays 0.

                            A message from the House announced its disagreement to the Senate
                                amendment made last night, to the bill H. R. 336, viz: " strike out
                                five cents, and insert in the place thereof, two cents."

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the Senate agreed to adhere to its
                                amendment.

                            On motion of Mr. SLACK, a Committee on Conference was appointed, as
                                follows.: Senators Slack, Wagner and Miller.

                            This Committee subsequently reported that they had agreed with the
                                House Committee that this amendment should take effect after the
                                year 1862, in which the Senate concurred.

                            Mr. TURNER moved to take up the resolution authorizing the
                                appointment of a joint Committee of Investigation in relation to the
                                swamp land frauds.

                            After remarks, by Senators Turner, Bearss, DeHart, Cobb, Miller and
                                Ray-

                            Mr. TURNER demanded the previous question, and the demand being
                                sustained by yeas 32, nays 12, the concurrent resolution was
                                read.

                            Mr. WAGNER demanded the previous question, and the demand being
                                sustained by yeas 29, nays 16, ihe resolution was adopted by yeas
                                29, nays 13.

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, his bill 191, to create the 16th judicial
                                circuit, was read the third time.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, the bill was referred to Senators March,
                                Mellett, and Ray, with instructions to amend, by attaching Hancock
                                county to the 13th district.

                            On motion by Mr. FERGUSON, the bill H. R. 328, fixing the time of
                                holding courts, was  read the
                                third time, and finally passed, by yeas 40, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. LOMAX, the bill H. R. 100, having reference to a
                                land case in Orange county, was read the third time and finally
                                passed: yeas 29, nays 1.

                            On motion by Mr. FERGUSON, the 2d Judicial Court bill [H. R, 324] was
                                read the third time and finally passed: yeas 39, nays 1.

                            On motion by Mr. MILLER, the bill [H. R. 82] to amend the charter of
                                the South Bend Manufacturing Company, was read the third time and
                                finally passed : yeas 36, nays 2.

                            On motions by Mr. LANDERS,his bill [135]-see page 184 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time.

                            On motion by Mr. JOHNSON, the bill was recommitted with instructions
                                to strike out the words "or other persons."

                            Mr. PRESIDENT appointed Senators Newcomb, Ray, Mellett, March and
                                Claypool a committee to report as to the time the Senate may legally
                                pass on bills-whether the constitutional limit occurs to-night at
                                midnight or to-morrow night at the same hour.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned the bill [H. R. 133] in relation to witnesses, recommending
                                passage. On his motion the bill was read the third time.

                            Mr. WOLFE and Mr. RAY opposed its passage.

                            Mr. BLAIR spoke in favor of its provisions.

                            The bill finally passed-yeas 28, nays 16.

                            A message from the House returned the bill H. R. 346, with a refusal
                                to concur in the Senate amendments thereto, appropriating $15,000
                                for the States' prison north, &c.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the Senate insisted on its amendments, and
                                Senators Wagner, Claypool, and Ray, were appointed a committee of
                                free conference thereon.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, his bill 251-see page 296 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time, and amended by "excepting the first
                                quarter of the year 1861," and finally passed-yeas 39, nays 2.

                            On motion by Mr. BEESON, the Sheep and Dog bill [H. R. 176] was read
                                the third time and finally passed by yeas 26, nays 15, as
                                follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Beeson, Blair, Carnahan,
                                            Claypool, Conley, Conner, Culver, Dickinson, Grubb,
                                            Hamilton, Hull, Johnson, Jones, March, Mellet, Miller,
                                            O'Brien, Odell, Kobinson, Steele, Stone, Tarkington,
                                            Teegarden, Wagner, Williams, and Wilson-26.

                                        
                                            NAYS-Messrs. Anthony, Bearss, Berry,
                                            Campbell, Cobb, Craven of Madison, Line, Lomax, Murray,
                                            Ray, Shoemaker, Slack, Studabaker, Turner, White, and
                                            Wolfe-15.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Senator Wagner's Street Railroad bill 71 was read the third time and
                                finally passed by yeas 31, nays 8.

                            Mr. DEHART moved to reconsider the vote by which the amendments of
                                the Senator from Delaware [Mr. March] were adopted to the five
                                additional Bank Branch bill [H. R. 62.] He had just received
                                instructions from his constituents, which he felt bound to obey.

                            Mr. CRAVEN made an ineffectual motion-yeas 22, nays 23-to lay this
                                motion on the table.A call of the Senate, on Mr. MARCH'S motion,
                                revealed the fact that 46 Senators were present and answering to
                                their names.

                            On his further motion, the absentees were sent for.

                            Further proceedings in the call were dispensed with.

                            The motion to reconsider was agreed to by yeas 23, nays 21.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the amendment was laid on the table-yeas 23,
                                nays 22 as follows:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Beeson, Berry,
                                            Blair, Campbell, Claypool, Conner, Cravens of Jefferson,
                                            Culver, DeHart, Hamilton, Hull, Johnson, Miller, Odell,
                                            Robinson, Shields, Steele, Tarkington, Teegarden,
                                            Turner, Wagner, and White-23.

                                        
                                            NAYS-Messrs. Bearss, Carnahan, Cobb,
                                            Conley, Craven of Madison, Dickinson, Ferguson, Jones,
                                            Landers, Lomax, March, Mellet, Murray, Newcomb, O'Brien,
                                            Ray, Shoemaker, Slack, Stone, Studabaker, Williams, and
                                            Wolfe-22.
                                    
                                
                            

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the specific appropriation bill H. R. 348
                                was read the first and second time by title only, under a suspension
                                of the rules-yeas 47, nays 0-and referred to the Committee
                                    on Finance.

                            Mr. CONLEY offered a resolution, which was adopted, calling on the
                                Doorkeeper for a report of his purchases and doings generally.

                            And then came a recess till 8 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.
                            The House bills 341, 269, 145, 188, 10, 15, 185, 165, 127, 154, 118,
                                were severally read the first time.

                            The House amendment to the Senate bills 86 and 36 were concurred
                                in.

                            Mr. CARNAHAN, from the Committee on Claims,
                                returned Wm. F. Nofsinger's claim, with a recommendation that it be
                                indefinitely postponed.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned Senator Bearss' bill 229-see page 267 of these
                                Reports-recommending that it lie on the table.

                            These reports were concurred in.

                            Mr. CRAVEN, from the Committee on Corporations,
                                returned the bill [H. R. 326] to revive the charter of the Alton,
                                Mount Carmel and New Albany Railroad, for the action of the
                                Senate.

                            On motion of Mr. FERGUSON it was read the third time, and finally
                                passed by yeas 38, nays 3.

                            On motion by Mr. DeHART, the bill [H. R. 294] to authorize
                                proceedings for the removal of the Calumet Feeder Dam, &c., was
                                read the third time [advocated by Senator TURNER] and finally passed
                                by yeas 28, nays 15.

                            On motion by Mr. STEELE, the bill H. R. 44-see page 50 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time, amended so as to read "five" years
                                instead of "seven," and finally passed by yeas 36, nays 3.

                            On motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the rules were suspended-yeas 35, nays
                                2the bill H.  R. 188 read the
                                second time, and referred to Senators Williams, Newcomb and Ray.

                            On motion by Mr. MILLER, the bill [H. R. 77] amending the charter of
                                the St. Joseph Iron Company, (of Mishawaka,) was read the third-
                                time, and finally passed by yeas 38, nays 2.

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, the rules were suspendedyeas 36, nays 2the
                                County Library bill [H. R. 10] was read the second and third times,
                                and finally passed by yeas 34, nays 0.

                            On motion of Mr. MURRAY, his bill 105 see page 159 of these
                                Reports-was read the third time [he said it repeals so much of the
                                present law as compels county commissioners to send out four setts
                                of viewers on a petition to locate or change a highway] and finally
                                passed by yeas 28, nays 6.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, his State Library bill 262-see page 306 of
                                these Reports-was read the third time and finally passed by yeas 37,
                                nays 0.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON, from the Finance Committee,
                                returned the Valuation and Assessment bill [H. R. 135] with
                                amendments recommending passage. The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Finance Committee, returned the specific
                                appropriation bill [H. R. 348] with sundry amendments thereto,
                                recommending passage.

                            The amendments were read and concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the bill was then ordered to be read section
                                by section.

                            A few amendments were made to the House part of the bill-

                            At 11: 30 o'clock, the Senate adjourned. 
                        
                        

                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            FRIDAY, March 8, 1861.
                        

                        The House resumed the Specific Appropriation bill, No. 348.

                        Mr. SHERMAN proposed to add: $25,000 for 1861, and $25,000 for 1862, to
                            purchase materials to apply the labor on the northern State prison :
                            which he supported in a general speech on the premises.

                        Messrs. JENKINSON, Grain, Frasier, and Branham spoke against the item ;
                            and Messrs. Burgess and Heffren supported it, with qualifications.

                        Mr. Speaker ALLEN (Mr. Cameron in the chair) also stated his
                            determination never to vote a dollar to carry out that prison contract.
                            He reviewed the history of that contract, which resulted in a direct
                            fraud upon the State. If this proposition to surrender their contract
                            were acceptable, he might take a different course.

                        On motion by Mr. BUNDY, Mr. Sherman's amendment was laid on the
                            table.

                        The House now returned to the vote of last night on Mr. Heffren's motion
                            to lay Mr. Stotsenberg's motion to reconsider the vote adopting Mr.
                            Moody's amendment, appropriating $1,500, &o., for the expenses of
                            the Swamp Land investigation Commission-and it was reported : yeas 69,
                            nays 24.

                        Mr. BRETT proposed $300 to pay the expenses of the committee to
                            investigate the condition of the Land Office of the trustees of the
                            Wabash and Erie canal.

                        The amendment was agreed to.

                        Mr. BLACK proposed to add $877 allowance to John W. Dodd, for expenses
                            incurred by him in arresting the Boone county bank felons.

                        Mr. JENKINSON proposed to credit blank amount to John W. Dodd, on account
                            of illegal fees retained by him, and $51,000 in warrants drawn in favor
                            of the commissioners of the northern prison.

                        These were severally laid on the table.

                        Mr. FRASIER moved to reconsider the vote of last night, allowing $2,000
                            for painting and papering in this capitol.

                        Mr. BUNDY moved, ineffectually, to lay it on the table.

                        The vote was then reconsidered. ~ Mr. GRESHAM now proposed $1,400.Mr.
                            BRANHAM proposed to refer it to the joint committee to investigate
                            accounts and offices. But-

                        On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, $1,000 were allowed, and the remainder of the
                            claim was referred to a select committee.

                        Various other items were submitted and adopted, and others were rejected:
                            as the bill was considered by its items under the constitutional
                            provision.

                        The bill, as amended, was then passed the third reading in the House of
                            Representatives yeas 73, nays 14. 

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. JONES of Vermillion, from the Prison
                                Committee, reported a bill [349] authorizing the directors
                                of the southern prison to work the prisoners outside; to purchase a
                                grave-yard ; to enlarge the female department; to transfer insane
                                convicts to the State asylum; and to settle with former contractors,
                                make new contracts, &c. supplemental to, and repealing former
                                laws ; which was passed to the second reading: and (the rule being
                                suspended), it was passed the second reading, and referred to the
                                    Committee on the Judiciary.

                            On motion of Mr. BRANHAM, the House took up the Senate's amendment to
                                the revenue bill [H. R. 346]. It strikes out "five" and inserts
                                "two" [cents tax on the $100]. The House refused to concur.

                            On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the House took up the amendments of the
                                Senate to the General Appropriation bill; and they were concurred
                                in, except those for the northern prison.

                            Mr. FISHER opposed the Senate's proposition to allow $15,000 to the
                                northern prison.  It would
                                require over $11.000 to pay the officials. What were $4,000 to
                                subsist 150 prisoners one year? &c. It would be better to repeal
                                the law. Investigations have produced no valuable information. The
                                House had sufficiently indicated its determination to make no
                                appropriation under that corrupt contract. If that could be got out
                                of the way (which he hoped would be done to-day), he would then be
                                in favor of making an appropriation to set the convicts at work.
                                When he concluded, he moved to strike out "$15,000" and insert
                                "$40,000."

                            Mr. BRANHAM would not vote for that under the present fraudulent
                                contract.

                            Mr. SHERMAN. If you annul the law, how are you going to subsist these
                                prisoners returned to Jeffersonville ? He inquired whether that
                                contract could not be amended by resolution ?

                            Mr. PARRETT considered that the fraud in the contract had nothing to
                                do with the question, whether we should have a northern prison ? We
                                should get rid of that contract save what money has been invested-as
                                we may ; we should at least take possession of the prison ground.
                                Appropriations have to subsist, and work-prisoners have nothing
                                whatever to do with fraudulent contracts. He was ready to go to work
                                in this way at once. He complained that no practicable plan of
                                legislation in this matter had been submitted before. No system had
                                been proposed : but all had been looking after nothing but the
                                stolen money.

                            Mr. BINGHAM defended the appointment and action of the Investigating
                                Committee. They had discharged their duties-reported the facts, and
                                their recommendations thereon. They had recommended the abandonment
                                of the location. He saw little distinction between doing nothing and
                                simply complaining that nothing has been done.

                            Mr. FISHER'S amendment was withdrawn.

                            Mr. HEFFREN now hoped the Senate amendment would not be concurred
                                in.[A Senate message asked for a Committee of Conference on its
                                amendment to the revenue bill [H. R. 346]; which was taken up; the
                                Committee ordered and the SPEAKER appointed Messrs. Branham, Prosser
                                and Fisher.]

                            Mr. FERGUSON was in favor of abandoning the Northern Prison.

                            Mr. WOODHULL. The State was bound to take care of the prisoners. If
                                the prisoners are not retaned North, there must still be a contract
                                to enlarge the Southern Prison. A delay in making appropriations
                                would bring the contractors to terms, if nothing else.

                            Mr. PROSSER, two years ago, had done all he could to prevent the
                                Northern Prison scheme. He was proud of his votes and action then.
                                He reviewed the arguments upon which this prison was authorized.
                                They got an appropriation of $50,000, and then stole more than that.
                                Now let it rot and crumble.

                            Mr. CAMERON demanded the previous question, and thereupon the
                                Senate's amendment was non-concurred in-yeas 14, nays 74.

                            On motion of Mr. HEFFREN, the Senate's amendments, allowing $14,000
                                for officers, &c., of the Southern Prison, and $15,000 for
                                officers and current expenses of the Northern Prison for 1862, were
                                concurred in-excluding that for the Northern Prison. 


                            
                                SINKING FUND LOANS.
                                The Sinking Fund bill [S. 114], (extending time of loans,) coming
                                    up-it was passed to the second reading.

                                On motion of Mr. McLEAN, (the constitutional provision being
                                    suspended for the purpose,) the bill was read the second time by
                                    title, passed to the third reading, read the third time and
                                    passed-yeas 88, nays 2.

                                Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee of Conference on the revenue
                                    bill, [H. R. 346] reported that the Senate recedes, and the
                                    agreement is, that the tax be two cents on the $100 to be
                                    assessed for the years 1861 and 1862, and five cents for the
                                    years following.

                                The report was concurred in. 
                            
                            

                            
                                TRUSTEES FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB AND BLIND.

                                Mr. BINGHAM asked that the House now take up the election of the
                                    remaining Trustees of the Benevolent Institutions-two for Deaf
                                    and Dumb, and two for the Blind Asylum ; which was agreed
                                    to.

                                The SPEAKER called for nominations for a trustee for the Deaf and
                                    Dumb Institution.

                                Mr. BINGHAM nominated James C. Burt, of Jennings county.

                                Mr. PROSSER nominated John M. Kitchen, of this city.

                                Mr. BINGHAM stated that Dr. Burt was the colleague of Dr. Burt,
                                    as voted for by the Senate.

                                Mr. CAMERON suggested that Dr. Burt's name be withdrawn, and let
                                    all vote together once for Dr. Kitchen. [Laughter.]

                                Mr. BINGHAM refussd to withdraw the nomination.

                                
                                    Burt received..........................57 votes.
                                    Kitchen received ......... .................29
                                        votes.
                                    Scattering received :......................... 4
                                        votes.
                                

                                So, James C. Burt, receiving a majority, was declared duly
                                    elected a trustee of the Deaf and Dumb Asylum-to serve two
                                    years.

                                Mr. PROSSER nominated Dr. Kitchen for he other trustee.

                                M. STOTSENBERG nominated Thomas W. Woollen.

                                
                                    Kitchen received................. ...70 votes.
                                    Woollen received .....................17 votes.
                                    Scattering received ..................... 3 votes.
                                

                                 So, John M. Kitchen was declared to be elected-to serve two
                                    years.

                                The SPEAKER calling for nominations for a trustee of the
                                    Institute for the Blind-

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG nominated Harvey G. Hazelrig, of Boone county. 

                                

                                Mr. HAWORTH nominated Wm. M. Smith, of Fayette county.

                                
                                    Smith received........................52 votes.
                                    Hazelrig received .......................23 votes.
                                    Scattering received ......................13 votes.
                                

                                So, Wm. M. Smith was declared lo be elected on the part of the
                                    House of Representatives-to serve two years.

                                Mr. CRAIN nominated John Beard, of Montgomery county.

                                Mr. STOTSENBERG nominated Michael Fitzgibbon, of Marion
                                    county.

                                
                                    Beard received........................52 votes.
                                    Fitzgibbon received........................36
                                        votes.
                                

                                So, John Beard was declared to be elected on the part of the
                                    House of Representatives to serve two years : and then it
                                    was-

                                Ordered, That the Clerk acquaint the Senate of these concurrent
                                    ballotings.

                                A Senate message announced the adherence of that body to its
                                    amendments to the General appropriation bill, and asked for a
                                    Conference Committee thereon; which was ordered; and thereupon,
                                    the Speaker appointed Messrs. Branham, Prosser and Fisher. 
                            
                            

                            
                                ASSIGNMENTS.

                                The bill [S. 98] to amend sections 13 and 14, of the Justices'act
                                    of June 9th, 1852, to prevent evasions of the law by the
                                    assignments of claims, and bringing suit against the assignor in
                                    a different county-coming up on the third reading, it was
                                    finally passed by House without amendment-yeas 83, nays 1.

                                The witness bill [S. 5] was laid on the table, as superceded by
                                    the House, witness bill 344. 
                            
                            

                            
                                ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
                                The bill [S. 25] to authorize Justices of the Peace, Mayors of
                                    towns and cities, Clerks of the Circuit and Common Pleas,
                                    courts, Master Commissioners, and County Auditors (and the
                                    respective counties to Road-viewers. &c.) to administer
                                    oaths, coming up-it was passed the final reading-yeas 75, nays
                                    0. 
                            
                            

                            
                                FREE BANK SECURITIES.

                                The Free Bank plate bill [S. 86] amendators of sections 3,4. 6. 7
                                    and 49 of the general banking act, coming up-

                                Mr. RAGAN. Does it do away with the deposit of $110 for the $100
                                    circulating ?

                                Mr. FISHER. It reduces it to $105, in Indiana State Stocks.

                                Mr. BLACK. The main feature of the bill is to force banks holding
                                    the bonds of other States to sell them and buy Indiana bonds.
                                    This would depreciate, the value of other State bonds, and so
                                    impair all the free banks owning such bonds.

                                Mr. FISHER. It contemplates those exchanges to be made by the
                                    year 1863. And it reduces the deposit of securities from $110 to
                                    $105, to the $100 of circulation. He spoke of the poor reliances
                                    for our circulation on State bonds under secession
                                    movements.

                                Mr. CRAIN. It was enough for the House to know that the bank of
                                    Bloomington went down solely because its circulation was based
                                    on southern state bonds, &c.

                                The bill passed the House-yeas 79, nays 10.

                                The Road bill [S. 36] coming up, it was passed the final reading
                                    in the House-yeas 61, nays 23. It takes the control of vacation
                                    and change of highways within the townships from the County
                                    Commissioners, and gives it to the Township Trustees ; and
                                    authorizes the opening of private ways. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.
                            The bill [S. 77] To prevent fraudulent assignments and bringing suits
                                in another county, coming up-it was passed the final reading in the
                                House-yeas 62, nays 5. 


                            
                                LIQUOR LAW.
                                The liquor bill [S. 20]applicants for license may appeal against
                                    rsmonstrants and refusal to iicense to a jury whose decision
                                    shall be final-coming up-

                                Mr. HEFFREN objected to the bill because it cut off appeal to the
                                    higher court.

                                Mr. BRANHAM. It placss the remonstrants on the same footing with
                                    the applicants.

                                Mr. CRAIN. It was the best we could get.

                                Mr. ROBERTS. It would make litigation.

                                Mr. DAVIS. It would not make more litigation than the
                                    doggeries.

                                Mr. NEBEKER. There would be more law than whisky.

                                Mr. FERGUSON. It would increase the difficulty in the way of
                                    getting license. He demanded the previous question, and
                                    thereupon the bill passed the House-yeas 52, nays 33-Mr. Dobbins
                                    proposing (out of order) an amendment of title: " To prevent
                                    native and adopted citizens of Wayne county from selling
                                    liquor," &c.; and Mr. Heffren: "To secure 10,000 additional
                                    Democratic votes in the State of Indiana." 
                            
                            

                            
                                TAX TITLE.
                                The bill [S. 11] To amend section 151 of the assessment act-a
                                    purchaser of land under the sale shall not have possession till
                                    he get the deed-coming up-it was passed the final reading-yeas
                                    59, nays 22.

                                The bill [S. 52] To amend section 352 of the Practice Act,
                                    [payment of costs in new trials] coming up-it was passed the
                                    final reading: yeas 64, nays 15.

                                Mr. Welles had leave of absence : sick.

                                The bill [S. 16] To ascertain the number of sheep killed and
                                    injured by dogs, was laid on the table.

                                The bill [S. 18] To amend the 315th section of the Practice Act,
                                    [changing the time of publication to 30 days] was passed to the
                                    final reading-yeas 61, nays 8.

                                The Game bili [S. 97] (it extends the time of taking prairie hens
                                    from August 1 to February 1] coming up, it was passed the final
                                    reading-yeas 65, nays 8. 

                                

                                The Struck Jury bill [S. 49] was passed the final reading-yeas
                                    51, nays 26.

                                The Game bill [S. 79] (it extends the time of taking quails and
                                    pheasants from October 1 to February 1) was passed the final
                                    reading yeas 53, nays 18.

                                The Common Pleas (5th section) bill [S. 177] with an engrossed
                                    term for Ohio county, 1st Monday in January, May and November,
                                    was passed the House : yeas 61, nays 1.

                                The bill [S. 171] To repeal the act of March 5, 1859, and
                                    authorize the judge to make the order of business, and say when
                                    the jury shall be called,was passed to the final reading: yeas
                                    69, nays 2. 
                            
                            

                            
                                PERRY COUNTY ACADEMY BILL.
                                The Perry County seat and Academy bill [S. 26] coming up-

                                Mr. VEATCH explained that the old public square and buildings in
                                    Perry county had been conveyed by the Commissioners to trustees
                                    for the purposes of a Seminary of learning, and that some doubt
                                    existed as to the validity of the law of December 28, 1858, this
                                    bill was for the purpose of perfecting the title to that
                                    property. It provides, also, that upon the petition of two
                                    thirds the legal voters, the Commissioner may convey the poor
                                    for educational purposes. Be had examined it, and believed that
                                    its provisions could not affect any other county than Perry.

                                The bill failed: yeas 43, nays 29 : for want of a constitutional
                                    majority.

                                The bill [S. 135] To amend the 6th section of the County Boards
                                    of June 17, 1852, coming up-

                                Mr. KENDRICK. It was very much desired in the larger
                                    counties.

                                Mr. CASON. This 6th section was amended by the act of 1859:
                                    extending the term of the Board to nine days, in counties with
                                    over 10,000 inhabitants.

                                Mr. KENDRICK. This gives 15 days.

                                Mr. VEATCH. It proposes to amend a section which has been dead
                                    and gone since 1859.

                                The SPEAKER. There is nothing embraced in the amendment of 1859,
                                    which is in the amendment now proposed.

                                On motion of Mr. KENDRICK, it was recommitted to the
                                        Committee on County and Township
                                    Business.

                                On motion of Mr. STOTSENBERG, the. amendment of the Senate to Mr.
                                    McLean's bill [44] making five years the period upon which the
                                    unexplained absence of a party may authorize his
                                    representatives, &c., to deem him legally dead, was taken up
                                    and concurred in.

                                The Common Pleas (6th section) bill [S. 175] coming up-

                                VOICES. It is the same bill we have just passed: No. 171.

                                Mr. GRESHAM. This was the best bill.

                                Mr. CAMERON. The bills contained distinct provisions which were
                                    dependent on each other.

                                The bill passed : yeas 64, nays 9.

                                The assessment bill S. 57] was passed : yeas 67, nays 9.

                                The Mortgage Satisfaction Fee bill [S. 117] (it adds 50 cents to
                                    the fee bill) was finally passed : yeas 55, nays 17.

                                Mr. FRASIER, from the Committee on County and Township
                                        Business, returned the bill [S. 136] with an
                                    amendment reciting the act of 1850 instead of that of 1852. The
                                    amendment was concurred in, and then the bill was finally
                                    passed: yeas 68, nays 3: with an amendment of title, viz : " An
                                    act to amend an act to amend the 6th section of the act."

                                On motion by Mr. GRESHAM, the Senate's emendment to Mr. Brucker's
                                    Decedents' bill [S. 64] adding: This act shall include alien
                                    heirs of aliens who may have died before the passage of this
                                    act; and such may hold, sell and convey land for eight years in
                                    the same manner as if their ancestors or devisors had departed
                                    this life subsequent to the passage of this act: provided the
                                    estate has not already vested in resident heirs--was taken up
                                    and concurred in.

                                Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on the
                                        Judiciary, returned the resolution of inquiry as
                                    to when the session will expire, and the latest hours when bills
                                    can be sent to the Governor, reported the opinion that, since
                                    the constitutional term expires Monday, 11th inst., at midnight,
                                    this House may constitutionally pass bills till Saturday 9th, at
                                    midnight.

                                Mr. PROSSER moved concursence.

                                Mr. HEFFREN dissented. The constitutional provision is: "no bill
                                    shall be presented to the Governor within the two days next
                                    preceding the day of adjournment."

                                The report was concurred in.

                                The Common Pleas bill [S. 93], [it gives two weeks to Lawrence,
                                    and two weeks to Jackson county], was passed: yeas 67, nays
                                    0.

                                The Agricultural bill [S. 73], [a society may hold 80 acres], was
                                    passed: yeas 72, nays 1.

                                Mr. VEATCH, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                    returned the Change of Venue bill [S. 138], recommending its
                                    passage.

                                The report was concurred in, and the bill passed the third
                                    reading: yeas 57, nays 11.

                                The Morgan and Putnam county line bill [S. 77] was passed to the
                                    second reading.

                                On motion of Mr. FISHER, the House took up the bill [S. 187],
                                    repealing the law for adjourned and special terms of the circuit
                                    courts, and legalizing orders, &c., was passed to the second
                                    reading.

                                The Common Pleas (section 8th) bill [S.185], was passed to the
                                    second reading.

                                The bills [S. 169, 264, 153, 121, 120, 245, 210, 146, 111, 119,
                                    193, 55, 206, 70, 85, 233, 108, 144, 262, 194, 172, 54, 218,
                                    184, 237, 248, 249, 67, 266, 45, 260, 250, 112, 87, 251, 105,
                                    71, 199, 142, 170, 150, 108], were severally passed to the
                                    second reading to-morrow.

                                The House then adjourned. 
                            
                            
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            SATURDAY, March. 9, 1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. MURRAY, the reading of yesterday's journal was dispensed
                            with. 

                        The House amendment to the bill H. R.177 was concurred in.

                        On motion by Mr. ROBINSON, the Toll Bridge bill [H. R. 186] was read the
                            third time, and finally passed by yeas 30, nays 4.

                        On motion by Mr. CARNAHAN, the rules were suspended (yeas 34, nays 0),
                            and the voluntary association bill for building hotels H. R. 15 was read
                            the second and third times, and finally passed by yeas 30, nays 4.The
                            House amendment to Senators Wolfe's bill 57, Claypool's 19, and Slack's
                            175 were severally concurred in.

                        Mr. DEHART, from the Committee on Organization of
                                Courts, returned a substitute for Senator Newcomb's
                            Temporary Judge bill 274, recommending passage.

                        The report was concurred in. 

                        On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, the bill was considered as engrossed, read the
                            third time, and recommitted with instructions to strike out the
                            allowance of $4 a day to the judge.

                        The committee subsequently reported, and the bill was finally passed by
                            yeas 36, nays 3.

                        The Agricultural Society bill H. R. 199 was read the third time, amended
                            without objection by adding a repeal-at-discretion-of-the Legislature
                            clause, and finally passed by yeas 29, nays 9.

                        Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned the
                            Misdemeanor bill [H. R. 106] allowing imprisonment at the discretion of
                            the jury, for the action of the Senate. The bill was read the third
                            time, and finally passed by yeas 30, nays 12. 

                        On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, his State University Scholarships' bill 227
                            was read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 39, nays 2.

                        Mr. STONE presented a petition on the subject of sheep-killing dogs,
                            which was referred to the Agricultural Committee.

                        On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL, the Bank Tax bill H. R. 317 was read the first
                            and second time by title only, under a dispensation, yeas 42, nays 1,
                            [Mr. Claypool said its object was to tax the stock of non-residents, and
                            make all the stockholders pay pro rata], and passed over for a few
                            minutes, but finally passed by yeas 32, nays 9.

                        Upon the suggestion of the PRESIDENT, the Senate resumed the
                            consideration of the Specific Appropriation bill H. R. 348, which was
                            pending at the adjournment last night.

                        Mr. SLACK submitted the following:

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        The undersigned, members of the Senate, submit the
                                            following protest:
                                    

                                    The President of the Senate having decided that the reading
                                        of the Journal was a question over which a majority of the
                                        Senate had the control as well as any other; from which
                                        decision of the chair Senator Cobb and Slack appealed, and
                                        the decision of the chair was sustained by the Republican
                                        votes of the Senate-

                                    In view of the fact that the Constitution of the State of
                                        Indiana provides that "Each House shall keep a journal of
                                        its proceedings," we cannot conceive how it is possible for
                                        the Senate to do so, unless Senators have the privilege of
                                        hearing the Journal read, and correcting the errors, if any
                                        therein contained; particularly is it necessary at this
                                        time, at this session of the Senate, from the fact that when
                                        the Journal has been read, it has so frequently been
                                        necessary to correct its errors and supply its omissions;
                                        and in view of the fact that the Assistant Secretary
                                        announced to the Senate, on a former occasion, and which met
                                        the approbation of the Republican members, that he "exercised a sound discretion in making up the
                                            Journal, as to what should go upon it, and what should
                                            not," and the refusal of said Republican members to
                                        have the Journal read, and it being entirely out of the
                                        question for the Democratic members to read it individually,
                                        hence they have no assurance of its verity and correctness,
                                        and cannot do otherwise than question and suspect its
                                        authenticity.

                                    Rule 1st, adopted by this Senate at the beginning of the
                                        session, provides that-

                                    "The President shall take the chair every day precisely at
                                        nine o'clock in the forenoon. * * * He shall immediately
                                        call the Senators to order, and upon the appearance of
                                        two-thirds, shall cause the Journal of the preceding day to
                                        be read."

                                    This Rule, we conceive, only carries out the spirit and
                                        meaning of the Constitution, and can only be executed by
                                        reading the Journal upon the demand of any Senator
                                        present.

                                    In view of the fact that the Journal should always be
                                        referred to as authority, the Courts look to them to
                                        ascertain the validity of a law, and should not be disputed
                                        by any member, the undersigned cannot do otherwise than bear
                                        testimony to the great uncertainty of the present Journal
                                        and its want of authenticity, resulting from the fact that
                                        we are not permitted to have it read, and correcting its
                                        numerous errors.

                                    The undersigned, therefore, most solemnly protest against the
                                        ruling of the President of the Senate, and the vote of the
                                        Republican members thereof in sustaining said decision, as a
                                        ruling at war with a plain provision of the Constitution of
                                        our State, in direct violation of one of the standing rules
                                        of the Senate, and wholly destroying the verity of that
                                        which should be a true and correct record of our
                                        proceedings.
                                    
                                         J. N. CONLEY, JAS. R. SLACK, T. R. COBB, S. K.
                                            WOLF, FRANKLIN LANDERS, M. M. RAY, JNO. C. SHOEMAKER,
                                            SMITH JONES, Q. LOMAX, D. STUDABAKER, ARCH. JOHNSTON, J.
                                            D. WILLIAMS, W. C. TARKINGTON, M. T. CARNAHAN, C.
                                            O'BRIEN, H. K. WILSON, C. P. FERGUSON, A. B. LINE, JAMES
                                            ODELL.
                                    


                                
                            
                        

                        Which was ordered to be spread upon the journals.

                        Mr. WAGNER, from a majority of the Finance Committee,
                            returned the proposition of Talbott & Costigan, submitted yesterday
                            morning, recommending an appropriation authorizing the payment of the
                            first sum named by them, $13,574 27upon the surrender of their
                            contract.

                        Mr. HAMILTON, a member of the committee, protested against the action of
                            the majority, stating that the contract was fraudulent, and entered into
                            by a set of designing men, combining with the commissioners on the part
                            of the State.

                        The further consideration of this question was postponed till after the
                            reading and disposal of the balance of the bill.

                        Mr. MARCH moved to amend by reducing the per diem of
                            the pages from $3 to $2.

                        On motion of Mr. STEELE, this amendment was laid on the table: yeas 30,
                            nays 11.

                        Other items were submitted and rejected,  while a few were adopted to the Senate
                            part of the bill, as it was considered Seriatem.

                        Mr. COBB offered an amendment, allowing $300 to Abraham H. Miller for
                            bringing to justice a fugitive.

                        Mr. CLAYPOOL had offered a just claim, but all of this class had been
                            rejected, and he should not press his now, but vote against all.

                        Mr. WAGNER said that claims of this class to the amount of $21,000 were
                            presented to the Legislature.

                        The amendment was laid on the table.

                        Mr. TEEGARDEN offered an amendment, allowing J. S. McDowell $654 95,
                            balance due him as sergeant-at-arms to the bank investigating committee
                            of 1857.

                        After discussion of the Finance Committee report,
                            concerning the contractors of the Northern State prison,

                        Came the recess till 2 o'clock. 

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.

                            Mr. WAGNER withdrew the amendment of the Committee on
                                    Finance, accepting the proposition of the State prison
                                contractors.

                            The bill, as amended, was then passed the third reading in the Senate
                                by yeas 39, nays 13.

                            On motion by Mr. NEWCOMB, the House amendments to his bill 136 was
                                read and concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the rules were suspended (yeas 37, nays 0),
                                and the bill H. R. 295 was read the first and second time by title
                                only.

                            Mr. CONNER moved for a recount on the Five Additional Branch Bank
                                bill H. R. 62.

                            Mr. MARCH made an ineffectual motion, (yeas 16, nays 26,) to lay this
                                motion on the table.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, a call of the Senate was had: 45 members
                                answering to their names.

                            Mr. BEARSS made an ineffectual motion to adjourn : yeas 6, nays
                                38.

                            Mr. CONNER demanded the previous question, and the demand was
                                seconded by yeas 28, nays 16.

                            The question being, whether the vote on the passage of the bill shall
                                be taken ; it was so ordered by yeas 26, nays 20.

                            The bill was then finally passed by yeas 26, nays 21, as follows
                                :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            YEAS-Messrs. Anthony, Berry, Blair,
                                            Campbell, Claypool, Conner, Cravens of Jefferson,
                                            Culver, DeHart, Dickinson, Ferguson, Hamilton, Hull,
                                            Johnson, Miller, Newcomb, O'Brien, Odell, Robinson,
                                            Steele, Tarkington, Teegarden, Turner, Wagner, White,
                                            and Wilson26.

                                        NAYS-Messrs. Bearss, Beeson, Carnahan,
                                            Cobb, Conley, Craven of Madison, Grubb, Jones, Landers,
                                            Line, Lomax, March, Mellett, Murray, Ray, Shoemaker,
                                            Slack, Stone, Studabaker, Williams, and Wolfe21.
                                    
                                
                            

                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the bill [H. R. 341] authorizing the
                                county treasurer to retain school monies, &c., was read the
                                first and second time by title only, under a dispensation (yeas 42,
                                nays 0), and finally passed by yeas 38, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. SLACK, the rules were suspended (yeas 34, nays 4) :
                                the bill [H. R. 244] appropriating $6,000 for enclosing the
                                Tippecanoe battle ground, was read the first and second time by
                                title only.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB moved to amend by striking out "$6,000," and inserting in
                                lie thereof, "$3,000."

                            Mr. CULVER. The appropriation is not more than is needed. 

                            Mr. WAGNGR. The amendment would kill the bill. If we cannot get
                                $6,000 we don't want the bill.

                            Mr. STEELE. It is known this battle ground was given to the State by
                                General Tipton, and the State could not do a nobler act than to
                                fence it.

                            The passage of the bill was urged by Senators Odell, Claypool, Ray,
                                and Slack; and opposed by Senators Mellett and March.

                            Mr. CONLEY made an ineffectual motion (yeas 12, nays 22) to lay the
                                amendment on the table.

                            After further remarks by Senators Johnson, Slack, and Culver,

                            Mr. NEWCOMB withdrew his amendment, and on his motion the bill was
                                read the third time and rejected by yeas 18, nays 22.

                            On motion by Mr. WAGNER, the message from the House announcing its
                                refusal to concur in several of the Senate amendments to the
                                Appropriation bill [H. R. 348], was taken up.

                            The amendments allowing pay to employees was adhered to by yeas 25,
                                nays 17.

                            The other amendments were also adhered to, and a Committee of
                                Conference appointed, viz.. Senators Wagner, DeHart, and
                                Anthony.

                            Mr. TARKINGTGN introduced a bill [279] accepting the surrender of a
                                contract by Wm. H. Talbott and Francis Costigan for the construction
                                of the Northern State Prison and the rights and property therein
                                mentioned, and to appropriate the sum of $13,574,37 to pay said
                                Talbott and Costigan the amount due them according to estimates for
                                work done on said contract. The rules were suspended: yeas 34, nays
                                10; and the bill read the first and second times by title only.

                            Mr. BEESON moved to amend by striking out from the enacting clause
                                and inserting new matter reciting that fraud was committed in
                                procuring said contract; authorizing a commission to examine the
                                accounts, and work of said contractors; and declaring the contract
                                null and void.

                            On motion of Mr. NEWCOMB the substitute was laid on the table: yeas
                                34, nays 6.

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON the bill was considered as engrossed and
                                read the third time.

                            The passage of the bill was urged by Senators Slack, Tarkington, Ray,
                                Cobb and Murray, and opposed by Senators Mellett, DeHart and
                                Claypool, each in five minute speeches.

                            Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question, and the demand being sustained by
                                yeas 30, nays 12, the bill was finally passed by yeas 26, nays
                                16.

                            Mr. SLACK presented a minority report from the Committee on
                                    the State prison, but without reading H or taking
                                action thereon-

                            The Senate took a recess till 7 1/2 o'clock. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.

                            The House amendment to Senator Conner's bill 187 was concurred
                                in.

                            A message announcing that the House refuses to concur in a Senate,
                                "exclusive original jurisdiction" amendment to the bill [H. R. 86]
                                was taken up, and on motion by Mr. WILLIAMS, the Senate receded:
                                yeas 23, nays 11.

                            On motion of Mr CRAVEN, the House amendment to the bill 169 was
                                concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. COBB, the rules were suspended-yeas 40, nays 0the
                                Southern State's Prison bill [H. R. 349] was read the first and
                                second times by title only, then read the third time and finally
                                passed: yeas 34, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. MELLETT, his resolution offered day before yesterday
                                morning rescinding the contract between Talbott & Costigan and
                                the Directors of the Northern State Prison because it was
                                fraudulently made, was read and adopted, yeas 27, nays 6, and 3
                                present but not voting.

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON, the bill [H. R. 135] exempting Widow's
                                property not exceeding $300 in value was read the third time.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL made an ineffectual motion : yeas 13, nays 28 : to lay
                                the bill on the table. The bill finally passed: yeas 30, nays 7.

                            Mr. CAMPBELL made an ineffectual motion, yeas 22, nays 15, to suspend
                                the rules, that he might call up the bill H. R. 269-not read.

                            Mr. MURRAY demanded the previous question, and the demand being
                                sustained by yeas 30, nays 12, the bill was finally passed by yeas
                                26, nays 16.

                            Mr. SLACK presented a minority report from the Committee on
                                    the State prison, but without reading it or taking
                                action thereon,The Senate took a recess till half past seven
                                o'clock.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS, from a Select Committee returned the bill [H. R. 188]
                                authorizing the organization of dam companies, &c., recommending
                                passage. The report was concurred in, the bill read the third time,
                                [a repeatability clause clause appended by Mr. MARCH, without
                                objection], and finally passed by yeas 32, nays 0.

                            On motion by Mr. STUDABAKER, the bill H. R. 8 county commissioners
                                not to allow clerks and sheriffs more than $100 a year for extra
                                services, was read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 30,
                                nays 4.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Committee on Free Conference on the General
                                Appropriation bill H. R. 336, made a report recommending that the
                                Senate recede from its amendment appropriating $15,000 a year for
                                the State's prison north, and insert the sum of $25,000 for the
                                years 1861-62, $10,000 of which shall each year be applied to the
                                purchase of materials to keep the prisoners at work.

                            The report was concurred in.

                            On motion by Mr. ANTHONY, the Incorporation-of-Cities bill H. R. 295
                                was read the third time, and finally passed: yeas 29, nays 6.Mr.
                                MILLER, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned the bill H. R. 322, for the action of the Senate.

                            Mr. WAGNER, from the Conference Committee on the Specific
                                Appropriation bill H. R. 348, made a report, which was concurred in,
                                and the Secretary ordered to inform the House thereof.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, the 13th Judicial Circuit bill H. R. 155 was
                                read by title only the first and second time, under a dispensation,
                                and referred to Senators March, Studabaker, and Mellett, which
                                committee subsequently returned the bill, recommending passage;
                                whereupon the bill was read the third time, and finally passed by
                                yeas 33, nays 2.

                            Mr. BLAIR, from the Finance Committee, returned
                                the Patent Medicine bill H. R. 116t recommending passage. The bill
                                was read the third time, and rejected by yeas 17, nays 20.

                            Mr. HAMILTON offered the following :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the thanks of the
                                            Senate be tendered to the Hon. John E. Cravens, for the
                                            firm, dignified, and impartial manner in which he has
                                            performed the duties of President of the Senate during
                                            the present session.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted, nem. con.

                            On motion by Mr. RAY, the Corporation bill H. R. 114, was read the
                                third time, and finally passed-yeas 29, nays 5.

                            On motion by Mr. CRAVEN, the Eel River Seminary bill H. R. 91 was
                                read the third time and finally passed-yeas, 28, nays 6.

                            Mr. BEARSS offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                authorizing the printing of 500 copies of the testimony before the
                                State Prison Committee for the use of the Senate.

                            On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL, the Railroad Fence bill H. R. 159, was
                                read the third time and finally passed-yeas 29, nays 6.

                            On motion by Mr. CLAYPOOL, the bill, H. R. 167, changing the title of
                                the Promissory Note law of 1852, was read the third time and finally
                                passed-yeas 34, nays 2.

                            On motion by Mr. TEEGARDEN, the bill [H. R. 322] to repeal the
                                individual liability clause in railroad charters, was read the third
                                time and failed for want of a constitutional majority-yeas 22, nays
                                18.

                            Mr. STEELE offered a resolution calling for the return from a select
                                committee of a common pleas bill H. R. 122, which, on motion by Mr.
                                CONLEY, was laid on the table. 

                            

                            On motion by Mr. TARKINGTON the rules were suspended-yeas 34, nays
                                2-the county treasurer bill, H. R. 342, read the first and second
                                times by title only, then read the third time and finally
                                passed-yeas 32, nays 2.

                            On motion by Mr. CULTER-the rules were suspended-yeas 34, nays 0-and
                                the 12th judicial circuit bill H. R. 234 read the first and second
                                times by titles only, then read the third time, and finally
                                passed-yeas 33, nays 1.

                            The bill [H. R. 139] to enlarge the legal capacity of married women
                                was read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 26, nays 7, not
                                voting 1.

                            Mr. CRAVEN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the execution-writ bill, H. R. 115, recommending passage. 

                            On his motion the bill was read the third time, and finally passed by
                                yeas 28, nays 6.

                            On motion by Mr. MILLER, the bill H. R. 185, numbering the common
                                pleas districts, was read by title only the second time, then read
                                the third time, and finally passed-yeas 32, nays 1, not voting
                                1.

                            On motion by Mr. MARCH, the joint resolution [H. R. 35] directing the
                                Attorney General to bring suit upon the official bonds or otherwise
                                against State officers for fees or perquisites they have collected
                                and not paid into the State Treasury, as required by law, was taken
                                up and passed-yeas 32, nays 4.

                            On motion by Mr. TEEGARDEN, the joint resolution [H. R. ],
                                instructing our Senators and requesting our Representatives in
                                Congress to endeavor to procure an appropriation for the improvement
                                of the harbor at Michigan City, was taken up and passed yeas 27,
                                nays 5, not voting 2.

                            Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the bill H. R. 52, recommending that it lie on the table.

                            Mr. JOHNSON, from the Judiciary Committee,
                                returned the bill H. R. 46, recommending that it lie on the
                                table.

                            Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on Claims,
                                returned the claim of Wm. M. Smith, recommending that it lie on the
                                table.

                            Mr. JOHNSON, from a select committee, returned the bill H. R. 132,
                                recommending indefinite postponement.

                            Mr. WOLFE, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the bill H. R. 69, recommending that it lie on the table. Also
                                Senator March's bill 116-see page 212 of these Reports-recommending
                                passage.

                            These reports were severally concurred in.

                            And then, at midnight, the Senate adjourned. 

                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            SATURDAY, March 9, 1861.
                        

                        On motion by Mr. MUTZ, the bill S. 185 was read a second time, and under
                            a dispensation read the third time, and laid over informally, but
                            subsequently taken up and passed by yeas 78, nays 1.

                        Mr. STOTSENBERG, from the Judiciary Committee,
                            returned his bill 295, recommending passage, with an amendment, striking
                            out from the 3d section the words, " and also the capital stock of the
                            several branches of the Bank of the State of Indiana." The report was
                            concurred in, the bill read the third time and finally passed by yeas
                            64, nays 8.

                        The bill [H. R. 317] regulating the tax on banks, was read the third
                            time, and finally passed by yeas 85, nays 0.

                        Mr. BUNDY, from the Judiciary Committee returned his
                            bill [32] authorizing a married woman whose husband's lands have been
                            sold without her consent, to hold her interest therein, recommending
                            passage.

                        Mr. NEBEKER, from the Committee on Public
                            Expenditures, returned the report of John H. Rea concerning
                            the accounts, &c., of the office of Agent of State, recommending its
                            reference to the joint commission of this Legislature, to investigate
                            the financial affairs of the State.

                        These reports were concurred in.

                        Mr. VEATCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned Mr.
                            Lane's bill [395] giving further time to railroad companies, with
                            amendments recommending passage.

                        The bill and report was laid on the table.

                        The Senate's amendments to Mr. Moss' bill 86 were agreed to except the
                            one giving justices exclusive jurisdiction.

                        Mr. Branharn's bill 289, providing for the investment of the Sinking Fund
                            in Indiana 5's and 2's, failed : yeas 46, nays 46 : for want of a
                            constitutional majority (51.)

                        Mr. HEFFREN made an ineffectual motion, (yeas 43, nays 42) to take up
                            Senate bills on their second reading.

                        Mr. VEATCH, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                            returned Mr. Jones of Vermillion's States Prison bill 394 recommending
                            passage, with amendments.

                        The report was concurred in, and the bill subsequently passed by yeas 71,
                            nays 9.

                        On motion by Mr. FRASIER, the bill [H. R. 830] amending the State Printer
                            act, was taken up.

                        On motion by Mr. HEFFREN, the first section was amended by striking out
                            "5" and inserting "12 1/2."

                        On motion by Mr. STOTSENBERG, it was "provided the same shall not exceed
                            ten cents per pound."

                        On motion by Mr. BUNDY, under a dispensation, the bill was read the third
                            time.

                        Mr. NEBEKER moved to recommit with instructions to increase the price for
                            press work 5 cents a token, and for paper 2 cents a pound; which motion
                            was laid on the table.

                        The bill finally passed: yeas 59, nays 31.

                        On motion by Mr. BUNDY, Mr. Underwood's 13th judicial circuit bill 155
                            was read the third time and finally passed: yeas 71, nays 0. 

                        

                        
                            AFTERNOON SESSION.
                            The bill S. 169 was read the second time, and under a dispensation,
                                passed the third reading by yeas 78, nays 2.

                            The bill S. 87 was read the second time.

                            Mr. HEFFREN made an ineffectual motion (yeas 36, nays 42) to suspend
                                the rules that it might be put upon its passage.

                            The Senate amendments to the specific appropriation bill [H. R. 348]
                                were concurred in with a few exceptions ; of which the clerk was
                                ordered to inform the Senate.

                            The bill [S. 260] releasing a State claim to Wm. Rochbill was read a
                                second time, and under a dispensation passed the third reading by
                                yeas 82, nays 1.

                            The bill [S. 70] for the relief of Lot Edwards, was read the second
                                time, and under a dispensation passed the third reading by: yeas 72,
                                nays 0.

                            The special term court bill [S. 187] was read the second time, and
                                under a dispensation passed the third reading by : yeas 69, nays
                                0.

                            The bill [S. 153] for the relief of Catherine P. Whittlesey was read
                                the second time, and under dispensation passed the third reading by
                                : yeas 81, nays 0.

                            The bill [S. 121] authorizing the surrender of bank securities by the
                                State Officers, was read the second time, and under a dispensation
                                passed the third reading by : yeas 52, nays 34.

                            The Senate's demand for a committee of free conference on the
                                Specific Appropriation bill [H. R. 348] was acceded to, and Messrs.
                                Branham, Burgess and Heffren appointed on the part of the House.

                            The bill [277] defining the boundaries of Morgan and Putnam counties,
                                was read the second time, and, under a dispensation, failed to
                                pass-yeas 45, nays 31-for want of a constitutional majority-51. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NIGHT SESSION.

                            Upon a recount, the bill S. 277 passed by yeas 66, nays 2.

                            Mr. GRESHAM offered a resolution, which was adopted by consent,
                                limiting speeches to five minutes.

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, the bill [S. 279] accepting the surrender
                                of Talbott & Costigan's contract with the Northern Prison
                                Directors, was read the first time, under a dispensation it was read
                                the second and third times, and under the operation of the previous
                                question, finally passed by-yeas 61, nays 24.

                            On motion by Mr. BUNDY, the joint resolution [S. 17] rescinding
                                Talbott & Costigan's contract, was taken up and passed-yeas 62,
                                nays 16.

                            Mr. HEFFREN, from the Free Conference Committee on the specific
                                appropriation bill [H. R. 348] made a report, which was concurred in
                                by the House.

                            Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee of Free Conference on the general
                                appropriation bill; [H. R. 336] made a report, which was concurred
                                in by yeas 52, nays 27.

                            Mr. Jones of Tippecanoe's 12th judicial circuit court bill 244, was
                                read the third time, and finally passed by yeas 72, nays .

                            The Senate amendments to House bills 135, 188, 199 and 164, were
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. Bryant's Tippecanoe Battle Ground bill 242, was read the third
                                time and finally passed by yeas 79, nays .

                             The bill S. 45, relating to the publication of the decisions of the
                                Supreme Court, was read the second time, and under a dispensation,
                                passed the third reading by yeas 81, nays .

                            The executor oath bill S. 164, was read the second time, and, under a
                                dispensation, passed the third reading by yeas 65, nays 2.

                            Senate bill 26 was laid on the table.

                            The State University Library bill S. 142 was read a second time, and,
                                under a dispensation, passed the third reading by yeas 67, nays
                                0.

                            The bill S. 85, concerning the assessment of property in cities, was
                                read the second time, and, under a dispensation, passed the third
                                reading by yeas 75, nays 1.

                            The turnpike company bill S. 108, was read the second time, and,
                                under a dispensation, read the third time, and rejected by yeas 33,
                                nays 35.

                            And then the House adjourned. 
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        IN SENATE.
                        
                            MONDAY, March 11, 1861.
                        

                        By unanimous consent, the reading of the journal of yesterday was
                            dispensed with. 

                        Mr. MURRAY offered the following:

                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Principal Secretary and
                                        his Assistants, the Assistant Secretary and his Assistants,
                                        the Doorkeeper and his Assistants, together with all other
                                        employees of this Senate, merit, and are hereby tendered,
                                        our thanks for the faithful and creditable manner in which
                                        they have discharged their several duties.

                                    
                                        Resolved, That the Finance
                                            Committee be, and they are hereby instructed,
                                        to report a joint resolution, restricting the Directors of
                                        the Northern State Prison in regard to the letting of
                                        contracts in the construction of said prison, and in the use
                                        of the appropriations made by this Legislature for that and
                                        other purposes.
                                
                            
                        

                        Which were adopted. 

                        
                            THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS, ACTS, JOURNALS
                                AND DOCUMENTS.

                            Mr. STUDABAKER offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                             Resolved, That the Secretary of State
                                            be, and is hereby directed to cause be bound in sheep
                                            binding, one copy of the Senate Journal, and one copy of
                                            Documentary Journal for each member of the Senate.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. MILLER moved to amend by substituting the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Secretary of State
                                            procure, and send to each member of the Senate, and to
                                            the officers and reporters thereof, two copies of the
                                            Brevier Reports, also two copies each of the Senate,
                                            House, and Documentary Journals, and two copies of the
                                            acts of the present session. All to be bound in full
                                            sheep.
                                    
                                
                            

                            The amendment was agreed to, and the resolution as amended was
                                adopted.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS. The Select Committee on  Apportionment, to whom was referred
                                Senate bills 21 and 125, to apportion Senators and Representatives
                                for the next six years, having failed to agree to any bill, 1
                                therefore make the following report, on my own hook, "Strike out
                                both bills, and insert in lieu thereof new matter, and recommending
                                its passage."

                            The report was concurred in.

                            Mr. CLAYPOOL offered the following :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That 5,000 copies of the
                                            report of the Prison Committee, with the evidence taken,
                                            be printed for the use of the Senate, and when printed
                                            that the Librarian be instructed to hold one-fiftieth
                                            part thereof-subject to the order of each Senator; and
                                            that the clerk of said committee shall deposit with the
                                            Assistant Secretary of the Senate the books and papers,
                                            with the evidence taken before said committee.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted.

                            Mr. SLACK, from the Committee on Banks, returned
                                Mr. Cobb's bill 257-see page 294 of these Reports-recommending that
                                it lie on the table.

                            Mr. WOLFE, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                his bills 254 and 258, recommending that the same lie on the table,
                                for want of time to act on the same.

                            Mr. CRAVEN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Senate bill [272] To enable county commissioners to remove county
                                seats in certain cases; recommending its passage.

                            Mr. MARCH, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                Senate bills 211, 95, 256, 78,161,181, and 205, recommending that
                                they lie on the table.

                            Mr. STEELE, from the Committee on Banks, returned
                                Senator Conner's bill 143-see page 185 of these Reports-recommending
                                that it lie on the table.

                            The above reports were severally concurred in.

                            The PRESIDENT laid before the Senate a report from the State
                                Librarian of stationery furnished to each Senator.

                            Mr. CRAVEN, from the Judiciary Committee, returned
                                the bill H. R. 107, To amend the Practice Act, recommending that it
                                lie on the table.

                            This report was concurred in.

                            Mr. MILLER offered the following, which he prefaced with appropriate
                                remarks :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, unanimously, That the
                                            members of this Senate will testify their regret for the
                                            memory of Rufus Brown , deceased, late a member of this
                                            body, representing the counties of Marshall and St.
                                            Joseph, by wearing crape on the left arm for one
                                            month.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. CAMPBELL offered a similar resolution in memory of Hon Isaac A.
                                Rice, a member of the last session, from Fountain county. He also
                                prefaced this resolution with appropriate remarks.

                            The resolutions were seconded in short speeches by Senators Hamilton,
                                Wagner, Steele, and Mr. President Cravens.

                            Mr. WILLIAMS offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That a copy of the above
                                            resolutions be furnished to the relatives of the
                                            deceased Senators.
                                    
                                
                            

                            The resolutions as amended, were adopted.

                            The joint resolution [H. R. 38] authorizing the Auditor of State to
                                pay Duval & Fordice for a lost certificate for ditching swamp
                                lands was taken up, amended, changing it from a joint to a
                                concurring resolution, and then adopted. 

                            Mr. MARCH offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Doorkeeper be
                                            directed to return to the State Library all the copies
                                            of the Revised Statutes, Acts of the Legislature,
                                            Journals of the Houses, and all other valuable books
                                            that have been used by Senators in the discharge of
                                            their official duties.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted.

                            On motion by Mr. BLAIR, a Committee was authorized of two on the part
                                of the Senate to act with three on the part of the House, to wait
                                upon the Governor, and ascertain whether he has any further
                                communications to make.

                            The PRESIDENT makes that Committee to consist of Senators Blair and
                                Odell.

                            Mr. MARCH, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
                                returned Senator DeHart's bill 189-see page 233 of these
                                Reports-recommending that it lie on the table; which report was
                                concurred in.

                            Mr. TARKINGTON offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Secretary of State
                                            have the Annual Reports of the Auditor of State for
                                            185T, 1858, 1859 and 1860 bound together in half binding
                                            (or sheep) for each member of the Senate, and forward
                                            the same with the laws and journals of this session.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted.

                            The joint resolution [H. R. 39] was amended by changing it into a
                                concurrent resolution, and then adopted.

                            Mr. NEWCOMB offered the following :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the use of this Hall is
                                            tendered to the Baptist Congregation of Indianapolis,
                                            whose church edfice has recently been destroyed by fire,
                                            to be used by said congregation as a place of
                                            worship.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted.

                            Mr. LINE offered the following: 

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Librarian be, and
                                            he is hereby directed to take up the carpet in this
                                            Hall, and preserve the same until the next session of
                                            the General Assembly meet, that he also take measures
                                            for the care and preservation of the furniture of the
                                            Senate Chamber.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted.

                            Mr. BLAIR, from the Committee appointed to wait upon the Governor,
                                reported that His Excellency has no further communication to make,
                                and extends his best wishes for the health and prosperity'of each
                                member.

                            On motion by Mr. LINE, the Secretary was directed to inform the House
                                of Representatives that the Senate has transacted its legisative
                                business, is now ready to adjourn sine die, and inquire whether the
                                House has any further communication to make.

                            The PRESIDENT announced the Committee to investigate the financial
                                affairs of the State n the part of the Senate, viz: Senators Wagner
                                and Hamilton: and the Committee on he part of the Senate to be
                                Senator Miller.

                            Mr. President CRAVENS then addressed the Senate as follows:

                            Gentlemen of the Senate:

                            The vacant chairs which T see around me, he restless impatience
                                manifest in every coun
                        
                        

                    
                    
                
                

                

                
                    BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS 
                    BY ARIEL & W. H. DRAPIER 
                    
                        Vol. IV
                        INDIANAPOLIS, MARCH 16, 1861
                        No. 24
                    

                    
                        

                        
                            tenance, and the silent progress of the hand on the dial of the
                                clock, all admonish me that the intimate, and, for the most part,
                                the uninterrupted agreeable relations which have existed between us
                                are rapidly approaching their termination. But I cherish the
                                consciousness that we will retire from this, the theatre of our
                                labors and the field of our conflicts with none but sentiments of
                                the utmost kindness and personal regard, such as our intimate social
                                and official relations would naturally originate. It is true,
                                temporary political excitements necessarily occur in such bodies,
                                and they have had their usual course and freedom during our
                                deliberations ; but you will, doubtless, bear me witness that these,
                                when once passed away, have invariably taken with them the momentary
                                bitterness and asperity of the political contests in which they rise
                                and sink. But we might

                            "As well expect eternal sunshine, cloudless skies,
                                As men forever calm, temperate and wise."

                            Our deliberations so far have been conducted in the midst of the most
                                extraordinary scenes that have ever before dawned upon the country.
                                A spirit of revolution, of impatience with the wholesome restraints
                                of law, and almost universal dissatisfaction with the existing order
                                of things, has so interfused its poison in the popular mind, as to
                                have broken up the foundations of society and government, and let
                                loose the fierce passions of mankind to prey upon all that has
                                heretofore been regarded as pure, peaceable and of good report. The
                                grand idea of the capacity of man for self-government, which was
                                first conceived and practically incorporated into a system of
                                government by those whose dreams of freedom within the shadow of
                                thrones developed within them a desire to kindle the beacon fires of
                                liberty on the rocks of New England, and while their songs of
                                liberty were mingled with the loud roar of the ocean, as its waves
                                broke upon that rock-bound coast, the unopened page of the future
                                was being impressed with a theory of government in perfect harmony
                                with the grandeur of that idea which was soon to result in the
                                establishment of a Constitution instinct with the attributes of
                                civil and religious liberty. What this has produced in National and
                                domestic prosperity we all well know. To what an unexpected and
                                unnecessary test this grand experiment is now subjective, the logic
                                of events is but too plainly illustrating. What may be the result of
                                the present alarming condition of national affairs, human wisdom
                                cannot forsee, or human sagacity foretell; but that peace and
                                harmony will be evolved out of the present anarchy, no man who loves
                                his race can for a moment doubt, though he may be in total ignorance
                                of the agencies by which it will be produced; but the elements of
                                that confidence are to all the "evidence of things not seen, the
                                substance of things hoped for." The inquiry naturally arises, what
                                can we do to hasten coming events that are to be as oil on the
                                troubled waters? Faultless ourselves in bringing upon the country
                                the "ills we have," it were wise that we "fly not to others we know
                                not of."

                            Specific and definite proposals of a local character for a settlement
                                of existing difficulties, seem only to increase the complication of
                                affairs, by exciting debate and its accompanying animosity. Remedies
                                are alone to be found in the wisdom of Congress, or in the
                                patriotism of a Constitutional Convention. A remedy proposed by
                                either would be canvassed in a catholic spirit of nationality, while
                                local remedies would be scrutinized in the light of party platforms
                                and sectional prejudice.-Hence it would appear to be a dictate of
                                prudence that we, a part only of a whole comprised of many members,
                                should patiently await the remedy of that wisdom that presides over
                                the destiny of the whole, and, in a spirit of unselfish love of
                                country, unite in applying that remedy.

                            But, in the seething cauldron of passion, it may be that there is
                                nothing left us but overwhelming calamity, and all the horrors which
                                many good men fear there is too much reason to anticipate. Should
                                this be our fate, we can only unite in the fervent prayer, "God save
                                the right,"-

                            Should the "tempest swing, The Pine against the
                                Palm."

                            In the midst of these hopes and fears; in the midst of these
                                realities and the visions and anticipations to which they give
                                birth, lave we, the representatives of the State, been called to
                                deliberate, and if we have not been able to mature so much
                                legislation as, under ordinary circumstances might have been
                                expected, or even deemed necessary, I congratulate you upon the fact that we have not
                                unadvisedly, and with ill-timed haste, been betrayed into the
                                adoption of any measure that might have contributed to the present
                                excitement, or have committed us to a line of policy that might in
                                the future embarrass the freedom of our action with reference to a
                                proposes-ed measure for the National peace.

                            Much important legislation has been completed, and much of equal
                                importance has been passed over, incomplete, owing to a want of
                                harmony and difference in opinion that may have been increased by
                                the pressure of internal excitement, but this misfortune is small
                                ,when contrasted with the magnitude of the former, and the remedy
                                will doubtless be suggested within the quiet and retirement of the
                                hours that are now waiting to welcome us.

                            With these remarks, gentlemen, you will permit me to tender to you my
                                grateful acknowledgment of the honor you have done me in having
                                selected me to preside over your deliberations in so eventful a
                                period, and and of the kind indulgence extended to my many faults,
                                which could not, on many occasions, but have been manifest to all.
                                Yet, allow me to assure you, that, whatever errors I may have
                                committed, and, numerous as they doubtless are, in the discharge of
                                the delicate duties imposed upon me, they had their origin in an
                                inexperienced head and not in a wilful heart.

                            And if I can have unintentionally given offence to any, whether
                                members of the Senate, officers, or others, at the hands of all of
                                whom I have received nothing but evidences of kindness and
                                consideration beyond any merit of mine, to you, I say, I will bear
                                about with me the recollection of that act longer than you can.

                            Again, I thank you, and commend you to those kind friends, in the
                                enjoyment of whose society at home, you will soon forget the strife
                                of the Senate chamber, but in the midst of which, I trust, you will
                                indulge occasional recollections of the Senate and its
                                President.

                            On motion by Mr. RAY, it was ordered that this address be spread upon
                                the journals of the Senate, and that a copy be furnished along with
                                the proceedings of the day for publication.

                            On motion by Mr. BLAIR, the resolution authorizing the printing of
                                the State Auditor's Reports, was amended so as to include the
                                Treasurer's reports for the same years.

                            The House concurrent resolution, authorizing the printing of 500
                                copies of the laws and joint resolutions of this session in the
                                German language, was agreed to.

                            The House concurrent resolution, instructing our Senators in
                                Congress, and requesting our Representatives to procure, if
                                possible, a repeal of the act of Congress compelling invalid
                                pensioners to procure biennial certificates of surgeons, was agreed
                                to.

                            Mr. BEARSS offered a concurrent resolution directing the Auditor of
                                State to draw his warrant for an allowance made a messenger of the
                                Senate in the specific appropriation bill, but omitted in the
                                engrossed copy, which was agreed to.

                            The House concurrent resolution in regard to section 9 of an act to
                                provide for the erection of a new prison north of the National Road,
                                &c., approved March 5, 1859, '' construing it as meaning and
                                allowing the Superintendent and Warden $3 per day, instead of
                                allowing him $3 per day for superintending and $3 per day for
                                warden, and that the Directors or Auditor of State be directed to
                                only draw his warrant for $3 per day for both warden and
                                superintendent per diem"-was agreed to.

                            Mr. STONE offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Resolved, That a call of Senators be
                                            now ordered, for the purpose of ascertaining the number
                                            of Senators present on the final adjournment of the
                                            Senate.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted.

                            Accordingly, the roll was called and 44 Senators reported as being
                                present, viz :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Messrs. Anthony, Bearss, Beeson, Berry, Blair, Campbell,
                                            Carnahan, Claypool, Cobb, Conley, Conner, Craven of
                                            Madison, Cravens of Jefferson, Culver, Dickinson,
                                            Ferguson, Grubb, Hamilton, Hull, Johnson, Jones,
                                            Landers, Line, Lomax, March, Mellett, Miller, Murray,
                                            Newcomb, O'Brien, Odell, Ray, Robinson, Shoemaker,
                                            Steele, Stone, Studabaker, Tarkington, Teegarden,
                                            Wagner, White, Williams, Wilson, and Wolfe-44.
                                    
                                
                            

                            The PRESIDENT, Gentlemen, I now wish you, one and all, a happy return
                                to family and friends, and declare this Senate adjourned, sine die. 
                        
                        
                    
                    

                    
                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
                        
                            MONDAY, March 11, 1861.
                        

                        Mr. JONES of Vermillion, from the Select Committee on stationery, made a
                            report, showing the amount of paper, pens, &c., received by each
                            member, officer, reporter, and committee. 

                        
                            RESOLUTIONS OF THANKS.

                            Mr. HEFFREN offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the members of this
                                            House hereby cordially tender their thanks to Hon. Cyrus
                                            M. Alien for the fair and impartial manner with which he
                                            discharged the duties of Speaker of the House during the
                                            present session, and for his promptness is dispatching
                                            the business of the session.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted nem con.

                            Mr. HAYES offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the thanks of this
                                            House are due A. P. Newkirk, assistant clerk, and to
                                            Robert O. Dorman, Chas. F. Hogate, Livingston Rowland
                                            and J. Z. Gower, his assistants, for the efficient and
                                            courteous manner in which they have severally discharged
                                            their duties as journal clerks during the present
                                            session.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted by consent. 
                        
                        

                        
                            REPORTS FROM COMMITTEES

                            Were made and concurred in, as follows:

                            Mr. HAYES, from the Select Committee on Apportionment, returned the
                                bill H. R. 93, recommending indefinite postponement.

                            Mr. SHERMAN, from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned Mr. Gifford's bill 215, to
                                regulate the practice of medicine and surgery, with an amendment
                                recommending passage.

                            

                            Mr. ORR, from the same Committee, returned the petition of A.
                                Greenman and Z. T. Stout, recommending that it lie on the table.

                            Mr. SMITH, of Bartholomew, from the same Committee, returned the fish
                                bill H. R. 136, recommending passage.

                            Mr. THOMPSON, from the Committee on Agriculture,
                                returned the memorial of J. N. Ray, with a report that the Committee
                                have not had time to make a full investigation of the charges
                                preferred against the State Board of Agriculture, but as far as
                                investigation has been had, the petitioner has signally failed to
                                substantiate any fraud, &c.; and asks to be discharged from any
                                further consideration of the subject.

                            Mr. BUNDY from the select Committee of Thirteen,
                                on Federal affairs, returned numermous petitions, memorials and
                                resolutions on the subject of the union of the States, and reporting
                                it as inexpedient to recommend either of tho proposals for
                                compromise as it seems probable a national convention may be called
                                for the purpose of considering the proposed terms of adjustment of
                                the slavery question, and this General Assembly ought not to dictate
                                terms if it had the power. They recommend said petitions, &c. be
                                laid on the table, and ask to be discharged.

                            Mr. HEFFREN from the minority of the Committee on the
                                    Northern State Prison, made a very lengthy report
                                adverse to the majority report, reflecting upon the manner in which
                                the investigation was had, &c., &c.

                            Mr. KENDRICK from the Committee on the affairs of the town of
                                Indianapolis, made a report recommending the sale of a lot of ground
                                belonging to the State, near the Cemetery: which was laid on the
                                table.

                            Mr. FRAZIER from the Committee on county and township business,
                                returned the bills [H. R. 287, 314 and 277] and Senate bills [82,
                                99, 101 and 56] reccommending that they lie on the table, for want
                                of time to consider them.

                            Mr. KNOWLTON from the Committee to whom was referred the Fourth
                                Judicial Circuit bill [H. R. 240] returned the same with the
                                recommendation that it lie on the table.

                            Mr. McCLURG from the Committee on Rights and
                                    Privileges, returned a resolution in relation to
                                Pedlars, recommending legislation.

                            Mr. SLOAN from the Committee on Claims, returned
                                the claims of Clark Duval and Nelson Fordice, with a joint
                                resolution allowing said claim, being for a certificate for ditching
                                swamp lands in Boone county, which was passed by-yeas 70, nays 1.
                                Subsequently the Senate amendment making it a concurrent instead of
                                a joint resolution was concurred in.

                            Mr. CASON from the Judiciary Committee returned
                                Mr. Henrick's Felony bill [213] recommending indefinite
                                postponement.

                            Mr. VEATCH from the Judiciary Committee-returned
                                Mr. Jones' bill 184, and Mr. Orrs' S. 131 and the bill S. 106,
                                recommending that they be laid on the table.

                            Mr. BRANHAM from the Committee appointed to wait on the Governor,
                                reports that they had discharged that duty, and his Excellency has
                                informed them that he has no further communications to make to the
                                House.

                            Mr. BRANHAM, from the Committee on Ways and Means and the
                                    Committee on Public Expenditures made a very
                                lengthy report on the financial affairs of the State.

                            Mr. RANDALL, from the Committee on Roads, returned
                                a petition from citizens of Hendricks county, in relation to laying
                                a road tax, with a report that legislation is inexpedient. 
                        
                        

                        
                            NATIONAL CONVENTION.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG offered a joint resolution requesting Congress to
                                call a National Convention.

                            Mr. BUNDY offered a substitute embracing the same object, which was
                                adopted by yeas 50, nays 26, and passed by yeas 58, nays 18. 
                        
                        

                        
                            BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS, LAWS AND
                                JOURNALS.

                            Mr. BUNDY offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Secretary of State
                                            procure and send to each member of the House, and to the
                                            officers and re-porters thereof two (2) copies of the
                                                BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS;
                                            Also, two (2) copies of each of the House, Senate and
                                            Documentary Journals, and two (2) copies of the Acts of
                                            the present session, all to be bound in full sheep.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. GIFFORD moved to amend by striking out all after the word
                                resolved and inserting the following:

                            That the Secretary of State be instructed to procure and send to each
                                member, officer and reporter of the House, one copy of the Acts, one
                                copy of the Journal, one copy of the Documentary Journal of this
                                session. Also, one copy of Drapier's LEGISLATIVE
                                    REPORTS, if the same can be furnished at one dollar per
                                copy, all to be bound in sheep.

                            The amendment was rejected, but the ordinal resolution was
                                adopted.

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, offered the following: which was
                                adopted:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Principal Clerk of
                                            the House, together with his Assistants, are entitled to
                                            the thanks of the members upon this floor for the
                                            faithful manner in which they have discharged their
                                            several duties during he present session of the
                                            Legislature.
                                    
                                
                            

                            On motion by Mr. DAVIS, the Doorkeeper was directed to distribute
                                immediately to the members of the House, the reports of the State
                                Board of Agriculture.

                            Mr. FRASIER offered the following, which was adopted:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the First Baptist
                                            Church of Indianapolis be granted the use of this Hall
                                            as a place of religious worship during the recess of the
                                            Legislature.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Mr. SMITH of Bartholomew, offered a resolution of thanks to the
                                Reporters, which was adopted.

                            Mr. STOTSENBERG offered a resolution, which was adopted, directing
                                the Librarian to take charge of all books and articles which  he House has once paid for,
                                and preserve them till the next session. 
                        
                        

                        
                            THE BREVIER LEGISLATIVE REPORTS.

                            Mr. HEFFREN offered the following:

                            
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            Resolved, That the Secretary of the
                                            Senate be directed to contract with A. E. and W. H.
                                            Drapier for binding 500 copies of the "Brevier
                                            Legislative Reports," (which Reports have been allowed
                                            by the House,) if the same do not exceed twelve cents
                                            and a half per copy, the same to be paid out of the
                                            contingent fund of the State.
                                    
                                
                            

                            Which was adopted.

                            A concurrent resolution, authorizing the printing of 500 copies of
                                the Laws and Joint Resolutions of the present session in the German
                                language, was adopted.

                            Mr. Speaker ALLEN announced the Committee on the Swamp Land
                                    Investigation, on the part of the House to be, Messrs.
                                Crain and Moody; and the Committee to investigate the State affairs,
                                on the part of the House, to be Messrs. Branham, Veatch, and
                                Griffin.

                            The Senate concurrent resolution, correcting an omission to the
                                Specific Appropriation bill, in favor of a messenger of the Senate,
                                was concurred in.

                            Mr. HEFFREN offered a concurrent resolution in regard to section 9 of
                                the Northern Stale Prison act of March 5, 1859, so that it shall be
                                construed to mean that the superintendent and warden shall receive
                                $3 per day, instead of allowing $3 per day for superintendent and $3
                                per day for warden, and that the Auditor of State be directed to
                                draw his warrant for only $3 per day for both warden and
                                superintendent, which was adopted.

                            On motion by Mr. BRANHAM, the clerk was directed to inform the Senate
                                that the House has no further communication to make to the Senate,
                                and the House is ready to adjourn sine die.

                            The Clerk called the roll, and the following members answered to
                                their names :

                            
                                
                                    
                                        Messrs. Anderson, Black, Boydston, Branham, Brett
                                            Brucker, Bundy, Burgess, Campbell, Cason, Combs,
                                            Cooprider, Davis, Dobbins, Epperson, Erwin, Ferguson,
                                            Fisher, Ford, Fordyce, Gifford, Gore, Gresham, Grover,
                                            Haworth, Hayes, Heffren, Henricks, Holcomb, Howard,
                                            Hudson, Hurd, Jenkinson, Jones of Tippecanoe, Jones of
                                            Wayne, Kendrick, Kitchen, Knowlton, Lane, McLean, Moody,
                                            Moorman, Nebeker, Newman, Orr, Packard, Parrett, Prow,
                                            Ragan, Robbins, Sherman, Smith of Bartholomew, Smith of
                                            Miami, Stevenson, Stotsenberg, Sloan, Trier, Thomas,
                                            Thompson, Turner, Underwood, Veatch, Williams, Wilson,
                                            Woodhull, Woodruff, Woods, and Mr. Speaker Allen-69.
                                    
                                
                            

                            The SPEAKER then returned to the House his thanks for the uniform
                                courtesy and kindness he had experienced from the members and
                                officers. He said he had carefully avoided in all his decisions from
                                being influenced by party bias, and that if, in the discharge of his
                                duties, he had wounded the feelings of any member, he now took
                                occasion to say it as unintentional on his part.

                            He then announced that the House stood adjourned without day. 
                        
                        

                    
                    
                
                
            
            
        
        
            
                INDEX
                ALLEN, CYRUS M., elected Speaker 8. His
                    motions29, 112, 122, 125, 127,134, 143, 158, 160, 207, 254, 256, 260, 278, 284,
                    299, 301, 308, 318, 320,321,336,342, 347, 356, 357, 361, 374.ANDERSON, NOAH, a
                    Representative from Elkhart. His motions70, 136, 152, 183, 195, 203, 259, 300,
                    301, 334.ANTHONY, DEWITT C., a Senator from Floyd. His motions11, 24, 26, 29,
                    42, 45, 61, 52, 67, 87, 112, 117. 150, 164, 171,176, 177,185, 244, 218, 220,
                    257,267, 272, 279,285, 286,293, 296, 303, 304, 331,338, 350, 351, 359ATKISSON,
                    GEORGE Y., a Representative from Hancock and Shelby. His motions56, 62, 71, 99,
                    109, 134, 180, 187, 200, 211, 215, 264, 228, 299, 316, 336.BEARSS, DANIEL R., a
                    Senator from Miami and Fulton. His motions45, 52, 68, 89, 129, 150, 212, 233,
                    249, 252, 270, 272, 302, 304, 344, 351, 372.BEESON, OTHNIEL, a Senator from
                    Wayne. His motions85, 103, 118, 119, 137, 176, 184, 212, 234, 237, 249, 251,
                    271, 296, 315, 337, 366.BERRY, E. H. M., a Senator from Rush. His motions3, 208,
                    293.BINGHAM, LUCIUS, a Representative from Jennings. His motions48, 64, 208,
                    214, 246, 320, 328, 362.BLACK, A. M., a Representative from Orange. His
                    motions29, 56, 70, 72, 98, 100, 114, 134, 136, 167, 185, 206, 255, 264, 268,
                    276, 277, 278, 282, 298, 310, 333, 335, 361, 263.BLAIR, SOLOMON, a Senator from
                    Hendricks and Boone. His motions45, 51, 75, 89, 162, 192, 219, 238, 243, 267,
                    271, 273, 306, 339, 360, 370, 372.BOYDSTON, T. G., a Representative from
                    Kosciusko. His motions7, 322, 333.BRANHAM, D. C., a Representative from
                    Jefferson. His motions9,16, 34, 38, 70, 78, 102, 109, 110,127,133, 134, 190,
                    203, 215,245, 248, 260, 261, 288, 291, 307,308, 310, 311,316, 320, 321,327, 336,
                    348, 349, 353, 356,361, 362, 363, 374.BRETT, M. L., a Representative from
                    Daviess. His motions-72, 89, 206, 215, 246, 288, 298, 299, 300, 320, 329, 335,
                    336, 337, 349,361.31, 224, 237, 330, 331, 338, 340, 341, 373.BRUCKER, MAGNUS, a
                    Representative from Perry. His motions36, 49, 66, 71, 99,114,121, 215,
                    270.BRYAN, WILLIAM H., a Representative from Tippecanoe. His motions13,114,
                    121,130, 269, 337, 341.BUNDY, M. L., a Representative from Henry. His motions16,
                    35,36,37,47, 56, 61, 64, 65, 75, 76,78, 93,98, 100, 107, 120, 121, 123, 132,
                    134, 136, 157, 160, 186, 188, 189,199, 200, 203, 240,245, 253, 255,268,276,278.
                    285,288, 291, 292,298, 307, 308,311, 318, 320, 327, 328', 334, 335, 336, 354,
                    356, 357, 373.BURGESS, JAMES, A Representative from Hendricks. His
                    motions65,114,121,136, 203, 207, 283, 261.CAMERON, R. A., a Representative from
                    Porter. His motions3,14, 28, 33,34, 36, 56,58, 64, 65,76, 77, 79, 98, 107,
                    116,156, 179, 188,190, 198, 246, 247, 265, 269, 274, 282, 296, 298, 299, 300,
                    301, 308, 327, 333, 336, 341,347,364.CAMPBELL, HENRY, a Senator from Fountain.
                    His motions3, 112, 212, 340, 370.CAMPBELL, JOSEPH, a Representative from Monroe.
                    His motions7,205, 208, 292.CARNAHAN, M. T., a Senator from Posey and Vanderburg.
                    His motions25, 80, 87, 89, 95, 96, 163, 165, 176, 192, 194, 204, 205, 208, 218,
                    233, 237, 272, 277, 280, 281, 288, 295, 324, 331, 338, 344, 365.CASON, T. J., a
                    Representative from Boone and Hendricks. His motions--48, 91, 108, 121, 166,
                    167, 174, 188, 197, 211, 224, 246, 274, 276, 284, 290, 300, 301, 328, 333, 337,
                    353, 364.CLAYPOOL, BENJAMIN F., a Senator from Fayette and Union. His motions25,
                    30, 46, 50, 52, 69, 95, 96, 98, 105, 111, 112, 122, 139, 150, 163, 164, 165,
                    170, 171, 179, 186, 193, 194, 195, 201, 205, 218, 220, 234, 238, 244, 249, 250,
                    257, 258,266, 267, 270, 271, 272, 273,279, 281, 288, 294, 295, 302, 303, 313,
                    314, 315, 330, 331, 332, 338, 344, 345, 346, 351, 358, 366, 370.COBB, THOMAS R.,
                    a Senator from Lawrence and Martin. His motions5, 11, 13, 31, 32, 67, 80, 86,
                    111, 117, 118, 123, 129, 137, 138, 163, 172, 178, 179, 213, 217, 226, 227, 242,
                    243, 244, 286, 294, 303, 355, 313, 315 , 331, 344, 346, 358, 359, 365,
                    366.COLLINS, E. M., a Representative from Adams. His motions56, 62, 94, 99, 146,
                    159, 18], 204, 236, 284. 298, 353.COLLINS, JAMES S., a Representative from
                    Huntington and Whitley. His motions-57, 78, 82, 107, 120,136, j 152, 215, 230,
                    234.COMBES WILLIAM, a Representative from Owen. His motions7, 296.COMMITTEES.
                    Senate29. House60.CONLEY, JASON N., a Senator from Greene and Owen. His
                    motions6, 24, 30, 31, 51, 52, 69, 87, 96, 98, 103, 104, 112, 122, 150, 151, 163,
                    176, 219, 233, 237, 238, 294, 306, 313, 315, 346, 360, 365.CONNER, JAMES D., a
                    Senator from Wabash and Kosciusko. His motions25, 30, 31, 59, 66, 68, 74, 137.
                    159,170,176, 179, 185, 208, 226, 227, 233, 239,242,243, 257,272, 294, 314, 345,
                    346, 358, 366.COOPRIDER, ELIAS, a Representative from Clay. His motions55, 92,
                    126, 183, 204, 353, 261.CRAIN, JOHN G., a Representative from Parke. His
                    motions71, 20, 98,107, 179, 224, 245, 246, 247, 255, 282, 284, 290, 292,
                    299,307,316,321, 336, 349, 353, 354, 357, 361, 363.CRAVEN, HERVEY, a Senator
                    from Madison and Grant. His motions24, 25,69, 88, 96, 164,171,186, 192, 201,
                    243, 244, 249, 251, 267, 270, 288, 293, 314, 323, 324, 331, 337.CRAVENS, JOHN
                    R., a Senator from Jefferson. Elected President of the Senate 3, 58. His
                    motions30, 42, 53, 58, 60, 86, 88, 95, 137, 149, 178, 267, 280, 324, 356, 358,
                    359, 370.CULVER, MOSES C., a Senator from Tippecanoe. His motions3, 159, 337,
                    345, 366.DASHIEL, JOHN L., a Representative from Ripley. His motions7, 220.  DAVIS, SAMUEL, a Representative from
                    Scott. His motions79, 130, 145, 167, 183, 247, 254, 256, 260, 261, 262, 270,
                    288, 291, 310, 320, 328, 329, 333, 341, 342, 347, 354, 355, 363, 373.DEHART,
                    RICHARD P., a Senator from Cass, Howard and Pulaski. His motions128, 208, 233,
                    257, 258, 271, 272, 287, 323, 337, 360, 366.DICKINSON, TIMOTHY R., a Senator
                    from De Kalb, Noble and Steuben. His motions30, 68, 103, 104, 139, 194,
                    212.DOBBINS, CUTLER S., a Representative from Martin. His motions54, 55, 71, 76,
                    91, 100, 101,106, 108,110, 114, 115, 120, 121, 124, 131, 134,
                    135,145,147,191,196, 200, 206, 209, 221, 223, 224, 255, 260, 267, 274, 275, 282,
                    284, 290, 298, 308, 310, 317, 333, 335, 336, 350, 353, 357.DRAPIER, ARIEL &
                    W. H., authorized Reporters233, 277, 283, 344, 357,374, 378.EDSON, JOSEPH P., a
                    Representative from Vanderburg and Posey. His motions14, 28, 36, 48, 62, 72,
                    76,84, 109, 110, 111, 113, 121, 130, 133, 134, 135, 136, 145, 181, 188, 191,
                    196, 205, 239, 245, 246, 253, 255, 256, 261, 263, 265, 273, 274, 283, 284, 291,
                    293, 309, 311, 317, 320.EPPERSON. RICHARD, a Representative from Montgomery. His
                    motions7, 220.ERWIN, HUGH, a Representative from Lawrence. His motions35, 79,
                    112,114, 121, 239.FEAGLER, HENRY, a Representative from De Kalb. His motions7,
                    34, 79, 160.FERGUSON, CHARLES IV a Senator from Clark and Scott. His motions43,
                    46, 118, 129. 159, 163, 193, 218, 242, 257, 271,281, 296,312, 359, 365.FERGUSON,
                    JOHN W., a Representative from Morgan. His motions7, 57, 126, 139, 260, 298,
                    316, 362, 363. FISHER, STEARNS, a Representative from Wabash. His motions14,77,
                    79, 90, 99, 106, 108, 120, 121, 124, 130, 135, 141,146, 174, 183, 200, 207, 214,
                    217, 228, 229, 232, 235,247, 253, 284, 290, 292, 297, 298, 299, 307, 310, 311,
                    319, 325, 263.FLEMING. A. F.. a Representative from Dubois. His motions7, 220
                    282.FORD, JOHN L., a Representative from Jackson. His motions105, 116 120. 197,
                    198. 205, 239, 264, 268, 269, 298, 299, 310, 327, 342.FORDYCE, NELSON, a
                    Representative from Boone. His motions7, 37, 203.FRALEY, JAMES F., a
                    Representative from Fountain. His motions7, 186, 229.FRASIER, GEORGE W., a
                    Representative from Kosciusko and Wabash. His motions9, 14, 27, 35, 47. 54, 65,
                    76, 77,106, 108, 152, 158, 180, 183, 191, 199,200, 209, 211, 216, 225, 231, 241,
                    246, 247, 259, 268, 269, 274, 284, 289,290, 298, 299 300, 301, 310,317,319,321,
                    335, 336, 354,356, 357, 361, 373.GIFFORD, THOMAS a Representative from Franklin.
                    His motions93, 115, 121, 208, 239, 276 291. 373.GORE, JOSEPH, a Representative
                    from Hamilton and Tipton. His motions7, 114, 187, 206, 242, 246.GOVERNOR'S
                    MESSAGES17, 39,51.GRESHAM, WALTER Q., a Representative from Harri-son. His
                    motions13, 49, 57, 64, 75, 91, 101, 108, 127,168, 181, 183, 199, 200, 241, 269,
                    283,285,289 290, 300, 306, 311,317. 319, 322, 333,336,342,350,354, 357, 361, 364
                    369.GROVER, IRA. G., a Representative from Decatur. His motions38, 56, 65, 114,
                    119, 203, 207, 209, 331, 282, 297, 298, 299, 300, 301, 307, 333, 334, 341.GRUBB,
                    G. B.. a Senator from Hamilton and Tipton. His motions3,103, 194, 337.HALL,
                    WILLIAM, a Representative from Grant. His motions7, 93.HAMILTON, ALLEN, a
                    Senator from Alien. His motions 43V 45, 67, 80, 111, 129, 151, 159, 170, 171,
                    184 194 225, 228, 232, 237, 244, 257. 293, 302, 313, 3H* 324 325, 338, 344, 359,
                    365, 367, 370. 'HARVEY, SAMUEL, a Representative from Laporte. His
                    tion7,HAWORTH, R. W., a Representative from Fayette and Union. His motions7, 55,
                    64, 207, 277, 298,HAYES, JOHN, a Representative from Madison. His motions37, 50,
                    71,114, 119, 120, 172, 288, 349, 372.HEFFREN, HORACE, a Representative from
                    Washington and Harrison. His motions7, 9,14, 15,16, 17, 22 28, 33, 34, 36, 37
                    48, 55, 56 57. 62, 64 65, 71, 72, 76 79, 89 120, 121, 125, 127. 131, 132,
                    136,144, 145, 157' 180. 183, 184, 210, 239, 262, 264, 265, 274, 275, 277 282,
                    289, 292, 293, 297, 307, 309, 311, 316, 317, 318 321, 325, 334, 335, 342, 343,
                    347, 353, 355, 356, 357, 361, 362, 363, 364, 372, 374.HENRICKS, JOHN A., a
                    Representative from St. Joseph. His motions55, 61, 72, 89, 99, 106, 155, 179,
                    184, 208, 277, 282, 283, 299, 310 326, 353, 357.HOLCOMB, SILAS L., a
                    Representative from Gibson. His motions17. 29, 36, 48, 50 57, 61, 79, 111. 117,
                    120, 125 126, 127, 180, 182, 183, 206, 207, 228, 236, 239,
                    245,246,318,332,337,348.HOPKINS S., a Representative from Vanderburg. His
                    .motions29, 72, 121, 197, 245, 256, 311, 354. ' 'HORTON, THEODORE, a
                    Representative from Blackford and Wells. His motions7, 50 79: 269, 284,
                    301.HOWARD, T. J., a Representative from Clark. His motions7, 61, 71.
                    140.HUDSON, SAMUEL, a Representative from Lagrange. His motions7, 121.HULL,
                    JAMES S., a Senator from Ripley. His motions 24, 29, 30, 52, 69, 85, 95. 150,
                    151, 178, 179, 185, 204, 212. 213, 233, 238, 251, 257, 271, 279. 281, 285,
                    303.HURD, ANSON, a Representative from Bent on and White. His motions70, 72, 99,
                    208, 255. 276,278.JENKINSON, M., a Representative from Allen. His motions14, 15,
                    28, 55. 64, 65 77,121. 124, 135, 136,140, 141,159,162, 186, 195. 203, 210, 214,
                    215,221, 239, 240, 245, 246 247, 259,265,273,275, 282, 284,285, 290, 293, 306,
                    321, 333, 335, 353, 356, 361.JOHNSON, ARCHIBALD, a Senator from Putnam. His
                    motions5, 6, 24, 31. 45, 51, 68, 85, 96. 103, 104. 112, 123, 138,186, 193, 201,
                    234. 249, 251, 270, 273, 285, 287,295,304.305, 306, 329, 330, 338, 339, 344,
                    358, 365.JONES, SMITH, a Senator from Bartholomew. His motions30, 67, 86. 95,
                    96, 97, 111, 117, 118, 119, 138, 149,159, 170, 194, 226, 273, 286, 294, 302.
                    305, 365.JONES, D. M., a Representative from Vermillion. His motions- 9, 17, 56,
                    119, 121, 215, 262, 335.JONES, JARVIS J., a Representative from Tippecanoe. His
                    motions37, 72, 100,121, 134, 136, 167, 174,184, 215,242.JONES, OLIVER T., a
                    Representative from Wayne. His motions7, 35, 70, 125, 209, 319.KENDRICK.W. H., a
                    Representative from Marion. His motions28, 36, 91, 112. 121, 167. 179,
                    183,203,210, 214, 215; 245, 2S8, 334, 353, 364.KITCHEN, DENNIS B., a
                    Representative from Warrick. His motions66, 114, 285, 335.KNOWLTON, C. B., a
                    Representative from Cass. His motions93, 136, 200, 204, 207, 238, 254, 255, 256,
                    293, 300, 301, 317, 318, 343.LANDERS, FRANK, a Senator from Morgan and Johnson.
                    His motions68, 69, 85, 96, 119, 128, i29, 184, 192, 193, 212, 217, 219, 226,
                    233, 238, 24-1. 248, 280, 281, 288, 293, 302, 313, 314, 332, 344, 345, 351, 358,
                    365.  LANE, HIGGINS, a Representative from
                    Putnam. His motions14, 37, 107. 114, 131, 191, 203, 220, 232, 298,
                    299,300,326,338,353.LEE, NATHANIEL, a Representative from Vigo. His motions7,
                    72. 210, 278, 316, 335.LIGHTNER, D. D., a Representative from Howard. His
                    motions7, 230.,LINE, AARON B., a Senator from Franklin. His motions 4, 6, 13,
                    25, 30, 33, 46, 50, 66 67, 69, 80. 86, 111. 112, 117,139,158, 164, 149, 208,
                    217, 226, 227, 238, 248, 251, 270, 271, 272, 288, 293, 302, 314, 315, 338, 340,
                    365, 370.lf'LODS, CHARLES, a Representative from Dearborn. His motion7.LOMAX,
                    QUINTON, a Senator from Orange and Craw-ford. His motions11, 25, 30 80. 87, 96,
                    118, 137, 158, 169, 185, 212, 234, 279, 285, 296, 302, 365.MARCH, WALTER, a
                    Senator from Delaware and Black-ford. His motions5, 6, 11, 13, 31, 42, 51.
                    52,68. 95, 96, 97, 103, 138, 150, 158, 1,59. 165, 170, 172, 185, 193, 194, 213,
                    217, 226, 227, 233, 237, 238, 242. 244 249, 251, 256, 257, 258, 266, 267, 273,
                    280, 281, 294, 295, 296, 302, 306, 315, 323, 324, 330, 331, 332, 337, 345, 346,
                    351, 358, 359, 365, 366,370.McCLURG, LEANDER, a Representative from Clinton. His
                    motions35, 50, 56, 72. 89, 125, 134, 135, 199, 205, 230, 299, 308, 316,
                    341.McLEAN, WILLIAM E., a Representative from Vigo. His motions28. 36, 38, 47,
                    50, 76, 90, 91, 94. 99, 116, 125, 136, 152, 210 211,220,235, 238, 245/246,
                    255,262,263,269,335,354.MELLETT, JOSHUA H., a Senator from -Henry. His
                    motions25, 42, 60, 68, 69, 86,139, 169, 172, 184, 233, 271, 280, 295, 305, 345,
                    346, 350, 358, 366.MILLER, JOHN P., a Senator from St. Joseph and Marshall. His
                    motions46, 50, 68, 69, 87, 95, 103, 105, 112, 122, 123, 129, 136, 159, 164, 165,
                    170, 171, 178, 184, 185, 194, 195, 201, 204, 233, 234, 237, 238, 244, 249, 257,
                    270, 271, 272, 273, 279, 281, 288, 295,296, 303, 304, 315, 330, 331, 338, 340,
                    370.MORTON, OLIVER P., Lieutenant Governor33, 42.MOODY, G. C., a Representative
                    from Jasper and Pulaski. His motions34, 37, 38, 56, 71, 98, 99, 100, 119, 120,
                    121, 146, 249, 273, 236, 246, 285, 311, 335, 357.MOORMAN, J. A., a
                    Representative from Randolph. His motions7, 48, 116, 300, 333.MOSS, W. E., a
                    Representative from Greene. His motions7, 35, 93, 183.MURRAY, CHARLES L., a
                    Senator from Elkhart and Lagrange. His motions11, 24, 29, 30, 31, 42, 43, 45,
                    52, 67, 68, 69, 74, 80, 81, 85, 88, 122, 123,136, 137,138, 150, 159, 162,
                    172,177, 184,185, 186.193,213,218,225, 226, 233, 234, 237, 238, 239,
                    242,243,249,350, 251, 287, 288, 293, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 313, 314, 315,
                    316, 329, 330,331, 345, 358, 361, 366, 369.MUTZ, JACOB, a Representative from
                    Shelby. .His motions7, 210,245.NEBEKER, R. M., a Representative from Warren. His
                    motions16, 28, 36. 50, 75, 76, 106, 109, 130,132, 133, 135, 151, 159, 166, 180,
                    183,191,196, 203, 206, 207,223, 247, 265, 277, 299, 300, 301, 316, 325, 353,
                    363.NEWCOMB, HORATIO C., a Senator from Marion. His motions13, 24, 31, 42, 43,
                    66, 69, 74, 81, 88, 89, 96, 98, 103, 118, 163, 164, 170, 171, 176, 184, 185,186,
                    212, 213, 218, 225, 227, 234, 238, 243,244, 251, 258,266, 267, 272, 287, 294,
                    295, 305, 306, 313,315, 323,330,345,350, 351, 358, 359, 366, 370.NEWMAN, E. T.,
                    a Representative from Wayne. His motions50, 61,108, 113, 247, 284, 326.O'BRIEN,
                    CORNELIUS, a Senator from Dearborn. His motions24, 69, 79, 95, 96, 104,
                    122,129,162,163,192, 208, 219, 226, 244, 249, 270,272, 365.ODELL, JAMES, a
                    Senator from Carroll and Clinton. His motions85, 88,122, 170, 270, 306, 314,
                    358, 365, 366.ORR, JAMES, a Representative from Delaware. His motions9, 14, 33,
                    47, 55, 57, 61, 69, 70, 71, 72, 75, 92, 93, 94, 95, 124, 126, 131, 152. 167,
                    181, 183, 248, 265, 269, 283, 299.OWENS, W. W., a Representative from Sullivan.
                    His motions56, 70, 207, 223, 255, 321, 348.PACKARD, MARCUS A. O., a
                    Representative from Marshall and Starke. His motions29, 35, 48, 63, 64, 71, 92,
                    93, 94, 108, 110, 114, 119, 120, 121, 122, 131, 154, 160, 182, 187, 192, 255,
                    256, 259, 265, 282, 283, 290, 292, 301, 333, 335, 336, 354,PARRETT, ROBERT, a
                    Representative from Lagrange ' and Elkhart, His motions65, 133, 134,' 135, 136,
                    174. 181, 183, 198, 199, 202, 204 209, 210, 235, 239, 241,^246, 277, 298, 299,
                    307, 326, 333, 362.PITTS, WILLIAM C., a Representative from Posey. His motions7,
                    33, 246.POLK, JOHN A., a Representative from Johnson. His motions56, 71, 99,
                    114, 136, 146, 167, 190, 239, 261, 263, 273, 285, 317.PROSSER, LEWIS, a
                    Representative from Brown. His motions9, 14, 16, 28, 33. 35, 71, 73, 78, 79, 99,
                    101, 106, 109, 130, 131, 133, 134,135,136,145,155,181,235, 240, 245, 253, 265,
                    268, 291,292.299,300,301,308, 310, 311, 317, 326, 334, 349, 362.PROW, C., a
                    Representative from Washington. His motions7, 62, 89,119, 253.RAGAN, R. S.. a
                    Representative from Putnam. His motions91, 93, 282, 291, 298, 300, 334, 347,
                    354, 363.RANDALL, J. R., a Representative from Noble. His motions7, 55, 99, 105,
                    259, 307, 336.RAY, MARTIN M., a Senator from Shelby and Hancock. His motions26,
                    42, 44, 53, 59. 67, 75, 87, 88, 96, 98, 104, 112,117,122,
                    129,138,139,165,172,193,194,195, 218, 226, 238, 239, 242, 257, 358, 266, 270,
                    280, 287, 296, 303,314, 316,337, 338, 345, 346,358, 360, 365, 366,372.ROBBINS,
                    A. H., a Representative from Fulton. His motions17, 93, 94, 180. 183, 290,
                    354.ROBBINS, RICHARD, a Senator from Decatur. His motions3, 62, 71, 88,
                    130.ROBERTS, OMAR F., a Representative from Dearborn. His motions28. 35, 46 70,
                    79, 90, 92, 93, 99,121,139, 140, 146, 167, 168, 173, 174, 207, 209, 210, 220,
                    242, 245, 256, 261, 264, 265, 273,285, 291, 289, 329, 353,363.ROBINSON, BENJAMIN
                    L., a Senator from Switzerland and Ohio. His motions87, 98, 103, 104, 169, 208,
                    250, 258. 286, 303, 358.SHERMAN, M. G., a Representative from Laporte. His
                    motions14, 29, 65, 77, 115, 136, 146, 245, 246, 274, 283, 290, 337, 349, 355.
                    361, 362.SHIELDS, MEDY W., a Senator from Jennings and Jackson. His motions58,
                    66, 67, 75, 80, 88, 95, 96, 105, 117, 119, 136, 139, 164. 172, 219, 239, 242,
                    258, 281, 286, 305, 344, 345, 351, 358.SHOEMAKER, JOHN C., a Senator from Perry,
                    Spencer and Warrick. His motions3, 30, 69, 88, 293, 294, 365.SHOULDERS, THOMAS,
                    a Senator from Gibson, Pike and Dubois. His motions88, 98,103, 159, 170,185,
                    205, 266,296.SLACK, JAMES R., a Senator from Huntington and Whitley. His
                    motions11, 12, 25, 42, 43, 45, 52, 53, 60, 150, 158, 159,186, 193 212, 219 226,
                    248. 256, 257, 258, 272, 280, 281, 285, 303, 304, 332, 344, 357, 365, 366.SLOAN,
                    W. W., a Representative from Crawford. His motions7, 121,198, 207, 333.SMITH,
                    FRANCIS P., a Representative from Bartholomew. His motions14, 16, 73, 91,108,
                    125, 126, 136, 140 145,174, 181, 191, 228, 232, 253, 255, 264, 265, 268, 290,
                    291, 293, 300, 310,316,317,318,319, 320, 335, 342, 349, 354, 357, 373.SMITH,
                    WILLIAM, a Representative from Miami. His motion7.  STEELE, GEORGE K., a Senator from Parke and
                    Vermillion. His motions5, 51, 52, 60, 86, 98,105, 150, 177, 178, 185, 213, 219,
                    258, 266. 271, 305, 314, 324, 325, 331, 351, 358, 366, 367, 370.STEVENSON, JOHN,
                    a Representative from Johnson and Morgan. His motions7, 260, 300.STONE, ASAHEL,
                    a Senator from Randolph. His motions43, 80, 85, 95, 103, 111, 193, 244, 302,
                    305, 310, 365, 372.STOTSENBERG, JOHN H., a Representative from Floyd. His
                    motions9, 10,15,16, 23, 37, 42, 62, 64, 65, 66, 73, 76, 90, 91, 93, 99, 100,
                    101, 107,109,115,121,126, 130, 132,139, 143, 144, 146, 151, 172, 181, 187, 191,
                    200, 203, 211, 221, 222, 223, 228, 229, 235, 244, 246, 247,253,255,256,259, 260,
                    261, 262, 264, 265, 268. 269, 273, 276, 278, 288, 290, 291, 293, 299, 318, 320,
                    326, 327, 329, 334, 335, 343, 344, 351, 355, 356, 373.STUDABAKER, DAVID, a
                    Senator from Adams, Jay and Wells. His motions158, 163, 171, 176, 184, 193, 250,
                    258, 266. 270, 271. 272, 273, 281, 285, 286, 287, 288, 294, 316, 345, 365
                    369.TARKINGTON, WILLIAM C., a Senator- from Monroe and Brown. His motions4,
                    6,11, 29, 42, 43, 59, 68, 80, 86,117, 129,150,159, 169. 172, 204, 213, 214, 219,
                    220, 226, 242, 250, 252, 258, 266, 267, 270, 271, 272, 273, 286S 288, 293, 294,
                    295, 302, 332, 340, 346, 350, 365, 366, 370.TEEGARDEN, ABRAHAM, a Senator from
                    Laporte and Starke. His motions52, 68, 74, 122,159,163,165, 178,194, 232, 233,
                    296, 314, 323, 351, 366.THOMAS, GEORGE, a Representative from Rush. His
                    motions7, 298, 317.THOMPSON. J., a Representative from Carroll. His motions7,
                    93, 203.TRIER, CONRAD, a Representative from Allen. Hismotion7.TURNER, DAVID, a
                    Senator from Lake, Porter and Jasper. His motions6, 11. 43, 45, 51, 68, 69,79,
                    89, 95, 97, 112, 139, 164, 171, 177, 185, 186, 195, 205, 212, 234, 243, 267,
                    279, 304, 312, 360.TURNER, J. H., a Representative from Marion. His motions7,
                    56, 72, 93, 139, 274.UNDERWOOD, ISAAC A., a Representative from Jay. His
                    motions34. 99,136,187, 216,245, 278, 326.VEATCH, JAMES C., a Representative from
                    Spencer. His motions15, 37, 56, 61, 63, 64, 71, 75,91,93,100, 101, 113, 116,
                    141, 160, 166, 167,175, 181,183, 187, 197, 202, 203, 210, 222, 239, 245, 268,
                    269, 282, 283, 285, 292, 293, 297, 298, 299, 300, 318, 320, 321 329, 334, 336,
                    341, 349, 356, 364. WAGNER, GEORGE D., a Senator from Warren, Bentou and White.
                    His motions4, 6,11, 26, 32, 42, 45, 43 51, 52. 67, 68, 79, 80, 89, 96, 97, 104,
                    111, 117, 129, 212,213, 226, 249, 252, 258, 266, 267, 270,271, 273, 279, 280,
                    286, 287, 302, 304, 315, 316, 330, 331, 345' 346, 350, 351, 360, 370. WARRUM,
                    NOBLE, a Representive from Hancock. His motions7, 47, 55, 56, 62, 283.WELLS, A.
                    J., a Representative from Pike. His mo-tions7, 57, 99,113,119,130,159.WHITE,
                    MICHAEL D., a Senator from Montgomery. His motions85,150.172,
                    176,186,193,271,272,279. 280, 325, 337, 340, 346, 358.WILLIAMS, H. T., a
                    Representative from Ohio and Switzerland. His motions17, 28, 50, 56, 62, 87, 93,
                    99, 167,183, 204, 210, 268.WILLIAMS, J. D., a Senator from Knox and Daviess. His
                    motions43, 52, 80,112,184, 217, 242, 248, 279, 287, 304, 315, 323, 330, 337,
                    346, 368, 369, 370.WILSON, HENRY K., a Senator from Sullivan and Vigo. His
                    motions30, 35, 46, 69, 95, 96, 103, 111, 122, 129, 162, 208, 237, 243, 329,
                    365.WILSON, J. C.. a Representative from Jefferson. His motions7,121, 269,
                    292.WOLFE, SIMEON K., a Senator from Harrison and Washington. His motions46, 51,
                    60,66, 67. 69,74,75, 119, 138,159, 165, 171, 172, 178, 193, 195, 258, 270, 271,
                    273, 280, 281, 286, 288, 294, 296, 302, 303, 304, 306, 312, 314, 315, 331, 332,
                    338, 344, 346, 358, 359, 360, 365.WOODRULL, JOSEPH A., a Representative from
                    Steuben. His motions28, 34, 48, 49, 61, 89, 91, 94, 98, 109, 115,116, 134, 135,
                    179, 180, 181, 198, 199, 232, 239, 240,241, 254, 256, 284, 298, 299, 301, 310,
                    321. 335, 355, 357, 362.WOODRUFF, ISRAEL, a Representative from Wayne. His
                    motions7, 37, 56, 62, 98, 130.WOODS, BARTLETT, a Representative from Lake. His
                    motions38, 55, 56, 93,120, 130, 173, 179, 183, 203, 208, 231, 245, 269, 298,
                    327, 354, 355, 356.YEAS AND NAYS. SENATE6, 87, 194, 214, 250, 251, 280, 281,
                    288, 296, 345, 359, 360, 366.YEAS AND NAYS. HOUSE16, 134, 144, 146, 183,199,
                    223, 228, 241, 248, 261, 264, 291, 336, 343, 357. 
            
            
                ERRATA: Page 138. The first speech belongs to Mr. Murray.

                Postoffice address of A. & W. H. DRAPIER, South Bend, St.
                    Joseph County, Indiana.
            

        
    
